FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20081215182411.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01 OTHER EVENTS.
     On December 15, 2008, KeyCorp (the "Company") issued $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its Floating Rate Senior Notes due December 15, 2010 (the "Notes") under the Company's existing Medium-Term Note Program, Series I, sold pursuant to a Terms Agreement dated December 10, 2008 between the Company and the purchasers named therein. The Notes are guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC") under the FDIC's Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program established pursuant to 12 C.F.R. Part 370 (the "Guarantee Program"). The terms of the offering of the Notes are described in the Company's Pricing Supplement dated December 10, 2008 to the Prospectus Supplement dated June 20, 2008, supplementing the Prospectus dated June 12, 2008 constituting a part of the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-151608 (the "Registration Statement"). The Terms Agreement is attached as Exhibit 1.1 hereto.
     The Notes were issued in the form of an FDIC-guaranteed global floating rate note (the form of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.2(e)) pursuant to the Indenture dated as of June 10, 1994, as thereby amended (as so amended, the "Senior Indenture"), between the Company and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee, and the Officers' Certificate and Company Order dated December 15, 2008 (the "Restated Company Order"), delivered pursuant to Section 201, 301 and 303 of the Senior Indenture, which amended and replaced in its entirety that certain Officers' Certificate and Company Order dated June 20, 2008. The Restated Company Order and the forms of FDIC-guaranteed notes set forth certain provisions required by the FDIC pursuant to the Guarantee Program, and are attached as exhibits hereto and are incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement. The Company may, from time to time, issue additional senior unsecured debt securities guaranteed by the FDIC pursuant to the Guarantee Program using such forms of FDIC-guaranteed notes that are filed as exhibits hereto.
Item 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 1.1
KeyCorp (An Ohio Corporation)
Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2010 Guaranteed Under the FDIC's Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program
TERMS AGREEMENT
December 10, 2008
Attention:
     Re: Distribution Agreement dated June 20, 2008 (the "Distribution Agreement")
     Each of the undersigned purchasers agrees severally and not jointly to purchase from you your Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2010 Guaranteed Under the FDIC's Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the "Notes"), in each case in the principal amount set forth below opposite such purchaser's name, on the terms set forth in this Terms Agreement:
 
The terms of the Notes are set forth in the Annex hereto.
          Documents to be delivered:
The following documents referred to in the Distribution Agreement shall be delivered:
 
 
any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any contract, indenture, mortgage, loan agreement, note, lease or other instrument to which it is a party or by which it or any of them or their properties may be bound which might materially and adversely affect the consummation of the Master Agreement or any transaction contemplated thereby. The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Master Agreement will not violate any law, rule, regulation, order, judgment or decree applicable to the Company or its subsidiaries or violate any provision of the Company's charter or by-laws, or conflict with or result in a material breach of or constitute a material default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any material lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or its subsidiaries pursuant to any contract, indenture, mortgage, loan agreement, note, lease or other instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or the property of any of them, is bound or subject.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC website at www.sec.gov.
Alternatively, a copy of the prospectus for the offering can be obtained by calling (i) KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. toll free at 1-866-227-6479, (ii) Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC toll free at 1-800-221-1037, (iii) Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated toll free at 1-866-718-1649, or (iv) UBS Securities LLC toll free at 1-877-827-6444, ext. 561-3884.
The security ratings above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold the securities hereby. The ratings may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings Ltd. Each of the security ratings above should be evaluated independently of any other security rating.
 
     1. The Notes have been duly authorized and, when issued and authenticated against payment of the consideration therefore, will be legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject as to enforceability to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws of general applicability relating to, or affecting, creditors' rights and general equity principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
     2. The Master Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and, assuming the validity and binding effect and enforceability thereof on the FDIC, is a valid and legally binding obligation of the Company enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject as to enforceability to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws of general applicability relating to, or affecting, creditors' rights and general equity principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
     3. The Company is a "participating entity," as such term is defined in 12 C.F.R.  370.2(g).
     4. When issued and delivered, the Notes will be entitled to the benefit of the guarantee by the FDIC under the FDIC Program as provided under 12 C.F.R.  370.3(a). We express no view as to the validity or enforceability of the FDIC's guarantee of the Notes.
     5. Each of the Distribution Agreement and the Terms Agreement have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
     6. The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Pricing Supplement and Prospectus Supplement, would not be on the date hereof an "investment company" as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
     7. The statements contained in the Pricing Supplement under the caption "FDIC Guarantee Under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program", insofar as they relate to provisions of the Notes, the Indenture and the FDIC's guarantee of the Notes, constitute a fair and accurate summary of such provisions in all material respects.
 
     1. The representations and warranties of the Company in the Distribution Agreement and the Terms Agreement are true and correct as of the date hereof as though made on and as of this date;
     2. The Company has complied with all agreements and all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied pursuant to the Terms Agreement at or prior to the date hereof; and
     3. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (File No. 333-151608) has been issued and no proceeding for that purpose has been instituted or threatened by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Exhibit 4.1
          Pursuant to the Indenture dated as of June 10, 1994 and supplemented as of November 14, 2001, relating to unsecured and unsubordinated notes (the "Indenture") between KeyCorp, an Ohio corporation (the "Company'), and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee (the "Trustee"), and resolutions adopted by the Company's Board of Directors on May 15, 2008, this Officers' Certificate and Company Order is being delivered to the Trustee to establish the terms of a series of Securities in accordance with Section 301 of the Indenture, to establish the forms of the Securities of such series in accordance with Section 201 of the Indenture, and to establish the procedures for the authentication and delivery of specific Securities from time to time pursuant to Section 303 of the Indenture. As authorized by the Indenture, this Officers' Certificate and Company Order has the same effect as, and is being used in lieu of, a supplemental indenture thereto.
          All conditions precedent provided for in the Indenture relating to the establishment of (i) a series of Securities, (ii) the forms of such series of Securities, and (iii) the procedures for the authentication and delivery of such series of Securities have been complied with.
          As of the date hereof no Notes (as hereinafter defined) have been issued. Accordingly, this Officers' Certificate and Company Order shall amend and replace in its entirety that certain Officers' Certificate and Company Order delivered pursuant to Section 303 of the Indenture on June 20, 2008 (the "Prior Order"), which Prior Order shall be of no force and effect.
          Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
          A. .
Establishment of Series pursuant to Section 301 of the Indenture
          There is hereby established pursuant to Section 301 of the Indenture a series of Securities which shall have the following terms (the numbered clauses set forth below correspond to the numbered subsections of Section 301 of the Indenture):
          (1) The Securities of such series shall bear the title "Senior Medium-Term Notes, Series I" (referred to herein as the "Notes").
          (2) The aggregate principal amount of the Notes of such series to be issued pursuant to this Officers' Certificate is unlimited.
 
          (3) (a) Each Note within such series shall mature on a date 9 months or more from its date of issue as specified in such Note and in the applicable Pricing Supplement; , that no Commercial Paper Rate Note (as defined below) shall mature less than 9 months and 1 day from its date of issue. If the Maturity Date or Redemption Date specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement for any Note is a day that is not a Business Day, principal will be paid on the next day that is a Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such specified Maturity Date or Redemption Date, as applicable. With respect to the Notes of this series, unless otherwise defined in the Pricing Supplement, (i) "Business Day" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in The City of New York; provided, however, that, with respect to foreign currency notes, such day is also not a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in the principal financial center (as defined) of the country issuing the specified currency (or, if the specified currency is the euro and for EURIBOR Notes (as defined below), such day is also a day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System is open, which we refer to as a TARGET business day); provided, further, that, with respect to notes as to which LIBOR is an applicable interest rate basis, such day is also a London Business Day; (ii) "London Business Day" means a day on which commercial banks are open for business (including dealings in the designated LIBOR currency) in London; and (iii) "principal financial center" means (1) the capital city of the country issuing the specified currency or (2) the capital city of the country to which the designated LIBOR currency relates, as applicable, except, in the case of (1) or (2) above, that with respect to United States dollars, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, euro, New Zealand dollars, South African rand and Swiss francs, the "principal financial center" shall be The City of New York and (solely in the case of the specified currency) Sydney, Toronto, London (solely in the case of the designated LIBOR currency), Wellington, Johannesburg and Zurich, respectively.
provided, however
               (b) If specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement that the Notes are "Renewable Notes", the Renewable Notes will mature on an interest payment date as specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement (the "initial maturity date"), unless the maturity of all or any portion of the principal amount is extended as described below. On the interest payment dates in June and December each year (unless different interest payment dates are specified in the Pricing Supplement), which are "election dates", the maturity of the Renewable Notes will be extended to the interest payment date occurring 12 months after the election date, unless the holder elects to terminate the automatic extension of the maturity of the Renewable Notes or any portion having a principal amount of $1,000 or any multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. To terminate, notice has to be delivered to the paying agent not less than nor more than the number of days specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement prior to the related election date. The option may be exercised with respect to less than the entire principal amount of the Renewable Notes so long as the principal amount for which the option is not exercised is at least $1,000 or any larger amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000. The maturity of the Renewable Notes may not be extended beyond the final maturity date that is set forth in the applicable Pricing Supplement. If the holder elects to terminate the automatic extension of the maturity and the election is not revoked, then the portion of the Renewable Note for which election was made will become due and payable on the interest payment date, unless another date is set forth in the Pricing Supplement, falling six months after the election date prior to which the holder made such election. An election to terminate the automatic extension of maturity may be revoked as to any
 
portion of the Renewable Notes having a principal amount of $1,000 or any multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof by delivering a notice to the paying agent on any day following the effective date of the election to terminate the automatic extension and prior to the date 15 days before the date on which the portion would have matured.
               (c) If specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement that the Notes are "Extendible Notes", the Company has the option to extend the stated maturity of such Extendible Notes for an extension period. Such an extension period is one or more periods of one to five whole years, up to but not beyond the final maturity date described in the related Pricing Supplement. The Company may exercise its option to extend the Extendible Note by notifying the applicable trustee (or any duly appointed paying agent) at least 50 but not more than 60 days prior to the then effective maturity date. If the Company elects to extend the Extendible Note, the Trustee (or paying agent) will mail (at least 40 days prior to the maturity date) to the registered holder of the Extendible Note a notice ("Extension Notice") informing the holder of its election, the new maturity date and any updated terms. Upon the mailing of the Extension Notice, the maturity of such Extendible Note will be extended automatically as set forth in the Extension Notice. However, the Company may, not later than 20 days prior to the maturity date of an Extendible Note (or, if such date is not a Business Day, on the immediately succeeding Business Day), at its option, establish a higher interest rate, in the case of a Fixed Rate Note, or a higher spread and/or spread multiplier, in the case of a Floating Rate Note, for the extension period by mailing or causing the Trustee (or paying agent) to mail notice of such higher interest rate or higher spread and/or spread multiplier to the holder of the Extendible Note. The notice will be irrevocable. If the Company elects to extend the maturity of an Extendible Note, the holder of the note will have the option to instead elect repayment of the note by the Company on the then effective maturity date. In order for an Extendible Note to be so repaid on the maturity date, the Company must receive, at least 25 days but not more than 35 days prior to the maturity date: (i) the Extendible Note with the form "Option to Elect Repayment" on the reverse of the Extendible Note duly completed; or (ii) a facsimile transmission, telex or a letter from a member of a national securities exchange or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ("FINRA") or a commercial bank or trust company in the United States setting forth the name of the holder of the Extendible Note, the principal amount of the Extendible Note, the principal amount of the Extendible Note to be repaid, the certificate number or a description of the tenor and terms of the Extendible Note, a statement that the option to elect repayment is being exercised thereby and a guarantee that the Extendible Note to be repaid, together with the duly completed form entitled "Option to Elect Repayment" on the reverse of the Extendible Note, will be received by the Trustee (or paying agent) not later than the fifth Business Day after the date of the facsimile transmission, telex or letter; provided, however, that the facsimile transmission, telex or letter will only be effective if the Trustee or paying agent receives the Extendible Note and form duly completed by that fifth business day. A holder of an Extendible Note may exercise this option for less than the aggregate principal amount of the Extendible Note then outstanding if the principal amount of the Extendible Note remaining outstanding after repayment is an authorized denomination.
          (4) Each Note within such series that bears interest will bear interest at either (a) a fixed rate (the "Fixed Rate Notes"), (b) a floating rate determined by reference to one or more base rates, which may be adjusted by a Spread and/or Spread Multiplier (each as defined below) (the "Floating Rate Notes"), or (c) an indexed rate (the "Indexed Notes"). Notes within
 
such series may also be issued as "Zero Coupon Notes" which do not provide for any periodic payments of interest. Notes may be issued as Original Issue Discount Notes at a discount from the principal amount thereof due at the stated maturity as specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement. Any Floating Rate Note may also have either or both of the following as set forth in the applicable Pricing Supplement: (i) a maximum interest rate limitation, or ceiling, on the rate at which interest will accrue during any Interest Reset Period (as defined below); and (ii) a minimum interest rate limitation, or floor, on the rate at which interest will accrue during any Interest Reset Period. The interest rate on a Note will in no event be higher than the maximum rate permitted by New York law as the same may be modified by United States law of general application. Under present New York law, the maximum rate of interest is 25% per annum on a simple interest basis. This limit may not apply to Notes in which $2,500,000 or more has been invested. The applicable Pricing Supplement may designate any of the following interest rate bases or formulas ("Base Rates") as applicable to each Floating Rate Note: (a) the CD Rate, in which case such Note will be a "CD Rate Note"; (b) the CMS Rate, in which case such Note will be a "CMS Rate Note"; (c) the CMT Rate, in which case such Note will be a "CMT Rate Note"; (d) the Commercial Paper Rate, in which case such Note will be a "Commercial Paper Rate Note"; (e) the Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate, in which case such Note will be an "Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate Note"; (f) EURIBOR, in which case such note will be a "EURIBOR Note"; (g) the Federal Funds Rate, in which case such Note will be a "Federal Funds Rate Note"; (h) LIBOR, in which case such Note will be a "LIBOR Note"; (i) the Prime Rate, in which case such Note will be a "Prime Rate Note"; (j) the Treasury Rate, in which case such Note will be a "Treasury Rate Note"; or (k) one or more other Base Rates.
          The interest rate on each Floating Rate Note for each Interest Period will be determined by reference to the applicable Base Rates specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement for such Interest Period, plus or minus the applicable Spread, if any, or multiplied by the applicable Spread Multiplier, if any. The "Spread" is the number of basis points, each one-hundredth of a percentage point, specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement to be added or subtracted from the Base Rate for a Floating Rate Note. The "Spread Multiplier" is the percentage specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement to be applied to the Base Rate for a Floating Rate Note.
          Each Note that bears interest will bear interest from and including its date of issue or from and including the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest on such Note (or one or more predecessor Notes) has been paid or duly provided for (i) at the fixed rate per annum applicable to the related Interest Period, (ii) at the rate determined pursuant to the applicable index, or (iii) at a rate per annum determined pursuant to the Base Rates applicable to the related Interest Period or Interest Periods, in each case as specified therein and in the applicable Pricing Supplement, until the principal thereof is paid or made available for payment. Interest will be payable on each Interest Payment Date and at maturity or upon redemption. The first payment of interest on any Note originally issued after a Regular Record Date and on or before an Interest Payment Date will be made on the Interest Payment Date following the next succeeding Regular Record Date to the registered holder on such next succeeding Regular Record Date. Interest rates and Base Rates are subject to change by the Company from time to time but no such change will affect any Note theretofore issued or which the Company has agreed to issue. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the "Interest Payment Dates" and the "Regular
 
Record Dates" for Fixed Rate Notes shall be as described below under "Fixed Rate Notes" and the "Interest Payment Dates" and the "Regular Record Dates" for Floating Rate Notes shall be as described below under "Floating Rate Notes".
          The applicable Pricing Supplement will specify: (i) the issue price, Interest Payment Dates and Regular Record Dates; (ii) with respect to any Fixed Rate Note, the interest rate; (iii) with respect to any Index Note, the index; (iv) with respect to any Floating Rate Note, the Initial Interest Rate (as defined below), the method (which may vary from Interest Period to Interest Period) of calculating the interest rate applicable to each Interest Period (including, if applicable, the fixed rate per annum applicable to one or more Interest Periods, the period to maturity of any instrument on which the Base Rate for any Interest Period is predicated (the "Index Maturity"), the Spread and/or Spread Multiplier, the Interest Determination Dates (as defined below), the Interest Reset Dates and any minimum or maximum interest rate limitations); (v) whether such Note is an Original Issue Discount Note; and (vi) any other terms related to interest on the Notes.
Fixed Rate Notes
          Each Fixed Rate Note (except a Zero Coupon Note), whether or not issued as an Original Issue Discount Note, will bear interest at the annual rate specified therein and in the applicable Pricing Supplement. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the Interest Payment Dates for the Fixed Rate Notes will be on June 15 and December 15 of each year and at maturity or upon redemption and the Regular Record Dates for the Fixed Rate Notes will be June 1 and December 1, respectively. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, interest payments for Fixed Rate Notes shall be the amount of interest accrued to, but excluding, the relevant Interest Payment Date. Interest on Fixed Rate Notes will be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. In the event that any Interest Payment Date or any applicable Redemption Date on a Fixed Rate Note is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date shall be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day, and no interest will accrue for the period from and after the scheduled Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date, as the case may be.
          A Fixed Rate Note may pay amounts in respect of both interest and principal amortized over the life of the Note (an "Amortizing Note"). Payments of principal and interest on Amortizing Notes will be made on the Interest Payment Dates specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, and at the Maturity Date or any earlier Redemption Date. Payments on Amortizing Notes will be applied first to interest due and payable and then to the reduction of unpaid principal amount.
Floating Rate Notes
          Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement and except as provided below, interest on Floating Rate Notes will be payable on the following Interest Payment Dates: in the case of Floating Rate Notes (other than Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate Notes) with interest payable monthly, on the third Wednesday of each month of each year; in the case of Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate Notes, on the first calendar day of each
 
month as specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement; in the case of Floating Rate Notes with interest payable quarterly, on the third Wednesday of March, June, September and December of each year; in the case of Floating Rate Notes with interest payable semiannually, on the third Wednesday of the two months of each year specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement; and in the case of Floating Rate Notes with interest payable annually, on the third Wednesday of the month of each year specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement. Interest will also be paid at maturity or upon redemption. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the Regular Record Dates for the Floating Rate Notes will be the day (whether or not a Business Day) fifteen calendar days preceding each Interest Payment Date. In the event that any Interest Payment Date for any Floating Rate Note is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date shall be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day, that, for LIBOR and EURIBOR notes, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Payment Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day.
provided
          The rate of interest on each Floating Rate Note will be reset daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly, semi-annually, annually or on some other basis (such specified period, an "Interest Reset Period", and the date on which each such reset occurs, an "Interest Reset Date"), as specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the Interest Reset Date will be as follows: in the case of Floating Rate Notes which are reset daily, each Business Day; in the case of Floating Rate Notes (other than Treasury Rate Notes) which are reset weekly, the Wednesday of each week; in the case of Floating Rate Notes that are Treasury Rate Notes which are reset weekly, the Tuesday of each week (except if the auction date falls on a Tuesday, then the next Business Day, as provided below); in the case of Floating Rate Notes which are reset monthly, the third Wednesday of each month; in the case of Floating Rate Notes which are reset quarterly, the third Wednesday of March, June, September and December of each year; in the case of Floating Rate Notes which are reset semi-annually, the third Wednesday of the two months of each year specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement; and in the case of Floating Rate Notes which are reset annually, the third Wednesday of the month of each year specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement.
          The interest rate in effect from the date of issue to the first Interest Reset Date with respect to a Floating Rate Note (the "Initial Interest Rate") will be as specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement. If any Interest Reset Date for any Floating Rate Note would otherwise be a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Reset Date shall be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day, that, for LIBOR and EURIBOR notes, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Reset Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day.
provided
          Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the interest rate determined with respect to any Interest Determination Date will become effective on and as of the next succeeding Interest Reset Date. As used herein, "Interest Determination Date" means the date as of which the new interest rate is determined for a particular Interest Reset Date, based on the applicable interest rate basis or formula as of that Interest Determination Date and calculated on the related Calculation Date. The "Calculation Date" is the date by which the calculation agent will determine the new interest rate that became effective on a particular Interest Reset Date based on the applicable interest rate basis or formula on the Interest
 
Determination Date. The Interest Determination Date for all Floating Rate Notes (except LIBOR Notes, EURIBOR Notes, Treasury Rate Notes and Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate Notes) will be the second Business Day before the Interest Reset Date. The Interest Determination Date in the case of LIBOR Notes will be the second London Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Interest Reset Date, unless the designated LIBOR currency is British pounds sterling, in which case the Interest Determination Date will be the applicable Interest Reset Date. For EURIBOR Notes, the Interest Determination Date will be the second TARGET business day before the applicable Interest Reset Date.
          The Interest Determination Date for Treasury Rate Notes will be the day of the week in which the Interest Reset Date falls on which Treasury bills of the same index maturity are normally auctioned. Treasury bills are usually sold at auction on Monday of each week, unless that day is a legal holiday, in which case the auction is usually held on Tuesday. Sometimes, the auction is held on the preceding Friday. If an auction is held on the preceding Friday, that day will be the Interest Determination Date relating to the Interest Reset Date occurring in the next week. If an auction date falls on any interest reset date, then the Interest Reset Date will instead be the first Business Day immediately following the auction date. The Interest Determination Date for an Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate Note is the last Business Day of the month immediately preceding the applicable Interest Reset Date on which the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco published the index.
          Each interest payment on a floating rate note will include interest accrued from, and including, the issue date or the last interest payment date, as the case may be, to, but excluding, the following interest payment date or the maturity date, as the case may be. Accrued interest on a Floating Rate Note will be calculated by multiplying the principal amount of a note by an accrued interest factor (the "Accrued Interest Factor"). The Accrued Interest Factor is the sum of the interest factors calculated for each day in the period for which accrued interest is being calculated. The interest factor for each day is computed by dividing the interest rate in effect on that day by (1) the actual number of days in the year, in the case of Treasury Rate Notes or CMT Rate Notes, or (2) 360, in the case of other Floating Rate Notes. All percentages resulting from any calculation are rounded to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percentage point, with five one-millionths of a percentage point rounded upward. For example, 9.876545% (or .09876545) will be rounded to 9.87655% (or .0987655). All currency amounts used in or resulting from such calculation will be rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of a unit (with five one-thousandths of a unit being rounded upward).
          Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, KeyBank National Association will be the "calculation agent". Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the "calculation date", if applicable, pertaining to any Interest Determination Date on a Floating Rate Note will be the earlier of (i) the tenth calendar day after such Interest Determination Date, or, if any such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day, and (ii) the Business Day immediately preceding the relevant Interest Payment Date, or the maturity date, as the case may be.
           CD Rate Notes will bear interest for each interest reset period at an interest rate equal to the CD Rate, plus or minus any Spread, and/or multiplied by
CD Rate Notes
 
any Spread Multiplier as specified in such CD Rate Note and in the applicable Pricing Supplement.
          The "CD Rate" for any Interest Determination Date is the rate on that date for negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit having the index maturity described in the related pricing supplement, as published in H.15(519) prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the calculation date, for that interest determination date under the heading "CDs (secondary market)." The index maturity is the period to maturity of the instrument or obligation with respect to which the related interest rate basis or formulae will be calculated.
          The calculation agent will observe the following procedures if the CD Rate cannot be determined as described above:
          (I) If the above described rate is not published in H.15(519) by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the calculation date, the CD Rate will be the rate on that Interest Determination Date for negotiable certificates of deposit of the index maturity described in the pricing supplement as published in H.15 Daily Update, or such other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying such rate, under the caption "CDs (secondary market)."
          (II) If that rate is not published in H.15(519), H.15 Daily Update or another recognized electronic source by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the calculation date, then the calculation agent will determine the CD Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the secondary market offered rates as of 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on that Interest Determination Date, quoted by three leading non-bank dealers of negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit in New York City for negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit of major United States money-center banks (in the market for negotiable certificates of deposit) with a remaining maturity closest to the index maturity described in the pricing supplement. The calculation agent will select the three dealers referred to above.
          (III) If fewer than three dealers are quoting as mentioned above, the CD Rate will remain the CD Rate then in effect on that Interest Determination Date.
          As referenced above, "H.15(519)" means the weekly statistical release designated as such, or any successor publication, published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. "H.15 Daily Update" means the daily update of H.15(519), available through the Internet site of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System at or any successor site or publication.
http://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/h15/update,
          . CMS Rate Notes will bear interest for each Interest Reset Period at an interest rate based on the CMS Rate, plus or minus any Spread, and/or multiplied by any Spread Multiplier, and will be subject to the minimum interest rate or the maximum interest rate, if any, as specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement.
CMS Rate Notes
          Unless otherwise set forth in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the CMS Rate for each Interest Reset Period will be the rate on the applicable Interest Determination Date for the designated maturity specified in the Pricing Supplement that appears on Reuters Screen ISDAFIX1 as of 11:00 a.m., New York city time.
 
          The following procedures will be followed if the CMS Rate cannot be determined as described above:
          (I) If the above rate is not displayed by 11:00 a.m. New York City time, the rate for such date shall be determined as if the parties had specified "USD-CMS-Reference Banks" as the applicable rate. "USD-CMS-Reference Banks" means, on any Interest Determination Date, the rate determined on the basis of the mid-market semi-annual swap rate quotations provided by the Reference Banks at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York city time on such Interest Determination Date; and for this purpose, the semi-annual swap rate means the mean of the bid and offered rates for the semi-annual fixed leg, calculated on a 30/360 day count basis, of a fixed-for-floating U.S. Dollar interest rate swap transaction with a term equal to the designated maturity commencing on that date and in a representative amount with an acknowledged dealer of good credit in the swap market, where the floating leg, calculated on an actual/360 day count basis, is equivalent to USD-LIBOR-BBA with the designated maturity specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement. The rate for that date will be the arithmetic mean of the quotations, eliminating the highest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the highest) and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest).
          (II) If no rate is available as described above, the CMS Rate for the new Interest Reset Period will be the same as for the immediately preceding Interest Reset Period. If there was no such interest reset period, the CMS Rate will be the initial interest rate.
          . CMT Rate Notes will bear interest at the interest rates calculated with reference to the CMT Rate, plus or minus any Spread, and/or multiplied by any Spread Multiplier, if any, as specified in the CMT Rate Notes and in the applicable Pricing Supplement. CMT Rate Notes will be subject to the minimum and the maximum interest rate, if any.
Constant Maturity Treasury (CMT) Rate Notes
          Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, "CMT Rate" means, with respect to any Interest Determination Date relating to a Floating Rate Note for which the interest rate is determined with reference to the CMT Rate (a "CMT Rate Interest Determination Date"):
          (I) If "Reuters Page FRBCMT" is the specified CMT Reuters Page in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the CMT Rate on the CMT Rate Interest Determination Date shall be a percentage equal to the yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement as set forth in H.15(519) under the caption "Treasury constant maturities," as such yield is displayed on Reuters (or any successor service) on page FRBCMT (or any other page as may replace such page on such service) ("Reuters Page FRBCMT") for such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date. The calculation agent will follow the following procedures if the Reuters Page FRBCMT CMT Rate cannot be determined as described in the preceding sentence:
               a. If such rate does not appear on Reuters Page FRBCMT, the CMT Rate on such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date shall be a percentage equal to the yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the index maturity specified in
 
the applicable Pricing Supplement and for such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date as set forth in H.15(519) under the caption "Treasury constant maturities."
               b. If such rate does not appear in H.15(519), the CMT Rate on such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date shall be the rate for the period of the index maturity specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement as may then be published by either the Federal Reserve Board or the United States Department of the Treasury that the calculation agent determines to be comparable to the rate that would otherwise have been published in H.15(519).
               c. If the Federal Reserve Board or the United States Department of the Treasury does not publish a yield on United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the index maturity specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement for such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date, the CMT Rate on such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the calculation agent and shall be a yield-to-maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date of three leading primary United States government securities dealers in New York City (which may include the agents or their affiliates) (each, a "reference dealer") selected by the calculation agent from five such reference dealers selected by the calculation agent and eliminating the highest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the highest) and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest) for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity equal to the index maturity specified in the applicable pricing supplement, a remaining term to maturity no more than one year shorter than such index maturity and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in such securities in such market at such time.
               d. If fewer than three prices are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the calculation agent and shall be a yield-to-maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices as of approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date of three reference dealers selected by the calculation agent from five such reference dealers selected by the calculation agent and eliminating the highest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the highest) and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest) for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity greater than the index maturity specified in the applicable pricing supplement, a remaining term to maturity closest to such index maturity and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in such securities in such market at such time. If two such United States Treasury securities with an original maturity greater than the index maturity specified in the applicable pricing supplement have remaining terms to maturity equally close to such index maturity, the quotes for the treasury security with the shorter original term to maturity will be used. If fewer than five but more than two such prices are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the calculation agent and shall be based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained and neither the highest nor the lowest of such quotations shall be eliminated; provided, however, that if fewer than three such prices are provided as requested, the CMT Rate determined as of such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date shall be the CMT Rate in effect on such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date.
 
          (II) If "Reuters Page FEDCMT" is the specified CMT Reuters Page in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the CMT Rate on the CMT Rate Interest Determination Date shall be a percentage equal to the one-week or one-month, as specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, average yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the index maturity specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement as set forth in H.15(519) opposite the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," as such yield is displayed on Reuters on page FEDCMT (or any other page as may replace such page on such service) ("Reuters Page FEDCMT") for the week or month, as applicable, ended immediately preceding the week or month, as applicable, in which such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date falls. The calculation agent will follow the following procedures if the Reuters Page FEDCMT CMT Rate cannot be determined as described in the preceding sentence:
               a. If such rate does not appear on Reuters Page FEDCMT, the CMT Rate on such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date shall be a percentage equal to the one-week or one-month, as specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, average yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the index maturity specified in the applicable pricing supplement for the week or month, as applicable, preceding such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date as set forth in H.15(519) opposite the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities."
               b. If such rate does not appear in H.15(519), the CMT Rate on such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date shall be the one-week or one-month, as specified in the applicable pricing supplement, average yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the index maturity specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement as otherwise announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for the week or month, as applicable, ended immediately preceding the week or month, as applicable, in which such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date falls.
               c. If the Federal Reserve Bank of New York does not publish a one-week or one-month, as specified in the applicable pricing supplement, average yield on United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the index maturity specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement for the applicable week or month, the CMT Rate on such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the calculation agent and shall be a yield-to-maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date of three reference dealers selected by the calculation agent from five such reference dealers selected by the calculation agent and eliminating the highest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the highest) and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest) for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity equal to the index maturity specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, a remaining term to maturity of no more than one year shorter than such index maturity and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in such securities in such market at such time.
               d. If fewer than five but more than two such prices are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date shall be the rate on the CMT Rate Interest Determination Date calculated by the calculation agent based on the
 
arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained and neither the highest nor the lowest of such quotation shall be eliminated.
               e. If fewer than three prices are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the calculation agent and shall be a yield-to-maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices as of approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on such CMT Rate interest determination date of three reference dealers selected by the calculation agent from five such reference dealers selected by the calculation agent and eliminating the highest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the highest) and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest) for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity longer than the index maturity specified in the applicable pricing supplement, a remaining term to maturity closest to such index maturity and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in such securities in such market at such time. If two United States Treasury securities with an original maturity greater than the index maturity specified in the applicable pricing supplement have remaining terms to maturity equally close to such index maturity, the quotes for the Treasury security with the shorter original term to maturity will be used. If fewer than five but more than two such prices are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date shall be the rate on the CMT Rate Interest Determination Date calculated by the calculation agent based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained and neither the highest nor lowest of such quotations shall be eliminated; provided, however, that if fewer than three such prices are provided as requested, the CMT Rate determined as of such CMT Rate determination date shall be the CMT Rate in effect on such CMT Rate Interest Determination Date.
          . Commercial Paper Rate Notes will bear interest for each interest reset period at an interest rate equal to the Commercial Paper Rate, plus or minus any Spread, and/or multiplied by any Spread Multiplier, as specified in such Commercial Paper Rate Note and the applicable Pricing Supplement.
Commercial Paper Rate Notes
          The "Commercial Paper Rate" for any Interest Determination Date is the money market yield (as defined below) of the rate on that date for commercial paper having the index maturity described in the related pricing supplement, as published in H.15(519) under the heading "Commercial Paper  Nonfinancial" prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the calculation date for that Interest Determination Date.
          The calculation agent will observe the following procedures if the Commercial Paper Rate cannot be determined as described above:
          (I) If the above rate is not published in H.15(519) by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the calculation date, the Commercial Paper Rate will be the money market yield of the rate on that Interest Determination Date for commercial paper having the index maturity described in the Pricing Supplement, as published in H.15 Daily Update, or such other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying such rate, under the caption "Commercial Paper  Nonfinancial."
 
          (II) If that rate is not published in H.15(519), H.15 Daily Update or another recognized electronic source by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the calculation date, then the calculation agent will determine the Commercial Paper Rate to be the money market yield of the arithmetic mean of the offered rates of three leading dealers of U.S. dollar commercial paper in New York City as of 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on that Interest Determination Date for commercial paper having the index maturity described in the pricing supplement placed for an industrial issuer whose bond rating is "AA", or the equivalent, from a nationally recognized securities rating organization. The calculation agent will select the three dealers referred to above.
          (III) If fewer than three dealers selected by the calculation agent are quoting as mentioned above, the Commercial Paper Rate will remain the Commercial Paper Rate then in effect on that Interest Determination Date.
          "Money Market Yield" shall be a yield (expressed as a percentage) calculated in accordance with the following formula:
where "D" refers to the applicable annual rate for the commercial paper, quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal, and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the interest period for which the interest is being calculated.
          . Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate Notes will bear interest for each interest reset period based on the Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate and any Spread and/or Spread Multiplier and will be subject to the minimum interest rate or the maximum interest rate, if any, specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement..
Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate Notes
          Unless otherwise set forth in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate for each Interest Reset Period will be the rate on the applicable Interest Determination Date equal to the monthly weighted average cost of funds for the calendar month preceding the interest determination date as displayed under the caption "11TH DIST COFI" on Reuters Page COFI/ARMS. "Reuters Page COFI/ARMS" means the display page designated as page COFI/ARMS on Reuters, or any successor service or page, for the purpose of displaying the monthly weighted average cost of funds paid by member institutions of the Eleventh Federal Home Loan Bank District, as of 11:00 a.m., San Francisco time, on such Interest Determination Date.
          The following procedures will be followed if the Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate cannot be determined as described above:
          (I) If the above rate is not displayed on the applicable Interest Determination Date, the Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate will be the Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate index on the applicable Interest Determination Date.
 
          (II) If the Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") of San Francisco fails to announce the rate for the calendar month next preceding the applicable Interest Determination Date, then the Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate for the new interest reset period will be the same as for the immediately preceding Interest Reset Period. If there was no such Interest Reset Period, the Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate index will be the initial interest rate.
          (III) The "Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate index" will be the monthly weighted average cost of funds paid by member institutions of the Eleventh Federal Home Loan Bank District that the FHLB of San Francisco most recently announced as the cost of funds for the calendar month preceding the applicable Interest Determination Date.
          . EURIBOR Notes will bear interest for each interest reset period at an interest rate equal to EURIBOR, plus or minus any Spread, and/or multiplied by any Spread Multiplier as specified in such EURIBOR Note and the applicable Pricing Supplement.
EURIBOR Rate Notes
          The calculation agent will determine EURIBOR on each EURIBOR determination date, which is the second TARGET Business Day prior to the Interest Reset Date for each Interest Reset Period.
          Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, EURIBOR means, with respect to any Interest Determination Date relating to a Floating Rate Note for which the interest rate is determined with reference to EURIBOR (a "EURIBOR interest determination date"), a base rate equal to the interest rate for deposits in euro designated as "EURIBOR" and sponsored jointly by the European Banking Federation and ACI  the Financial Market Association, or any company established by the joint sponsors for purposes of compiling and publishing that rate. EURIBOR will be determined in the following manner:
          (I) EURIBOR will be the offered rate for deposits in euro having the Index Maturity specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, beginning on the second TARGET Business Day after such EURIBOR Interest Determination Date, as that rate appears on Reuters Page EURIBOR 01 as of 11:00 a.m., Brussels time, on such EURIBOR Interest Determination Date.
          (II) If the rate described above does not appear on Reuters Page EURIBOR 01, EURIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates, at approximately 11:00 a.m., Brussels time, on such EURIBOR Interest Determination Date, at which deposits of the following kind are offered to prime banks in the euro-zone interbank market by the principal euro-zone office of each of four major banks in that market selected by the calculation agent: euro deposits having such EURIBOR Index Maturity, beginning on such EURIBOR Interest Reset Date, and in a representative amount. The calculation agent will request that the principal euro-zone office of each of these banks provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two quotations are provided, EURIBOR for such EURIBOR Interest Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of the quotations.
          (III) If fewer than two quotations are provided as described above, EURIBOR for such EURIBOR Interest Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for loans of the following kind to leading euro-zone banks quoted, at approximately 11:00 a.m., Brussels
 
time on that EURIBOR Interest Determination Date, by three major banks in the euro-zone selected by the calculation agent: loans of euro having such EURIBOR Index Maturity, beginning on such EURIBOR Interest Reset Date, and in an amount that is representative of a single transaction in euro in that market at the time.
          If fewer than three banks selected by the calculation agent are quoting as described above, EURIBOR for the new interest period will be EURIBOR in effect for the prior interest period. If the initial Base Rate has been in effect for the prior interest period, however, it will remain in effect for the new interest period.
          "Euro-zone" means the region comprised of member states of the European Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union.
          . Federal Funds Rate Notes will bear interest for each Interest Reset Period at an interest rate equal to the Federal Funds Rate, plus or minus any Spread, and/or multiplied by any Spread Multiplier as specified in such Federal Funds Rate Note and the applicable Pricing Supplement. The Federal Funds Rate will be calculated by reference to either the Federal Funds (Effective) Rate, the Federal Funds Open Rate or the Federal Funds Target Rate, as specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement.
Federal Funds Rate Notes
          Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, "Federal Funds Rate" means the rate determined by the calculation agent, with respect to any Interest Determination Date relating to a Floating Rate Note for which the interest rate is determined with reference to the Federal Funds Rate (a "Federal Funds Rate Interest Determination Date"), in accordance with the following provisions:
          (I) If "Federal Funds (Effective) Rate" is the specified Federal Funds Rate in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the Federal Funds Rate as of the applicable Federal Funds Rate Interest Determination Date shall be the rate with respect to such date for United States dollar federal funds as published in H.15(519) opposite the caption "Federal Funds (effective)," as such rate is displayed on Reuters on page FEDFUNDS1 (or any other page as may replace such page on such service) ("Reuters Page FEDFUNDS1") under the heading "EFFECT," or, if such rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Calculation Date, the rate with respect to such Federal Funds Rate Interest Determination Date for United States dollar federal funds as published in H.15 Daily Update, or such other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying such rate, under the caption "Federal funds (effective)." If such rate does not appear on Reuters Page FEDFUNDS1 or is not yet published in H.15(519), H.15 Daily Update or another recognized electronic source by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the related Calculation Date, then the Federal Funds Rate with respect to such Federal Funds Rate Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent and will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for the last transaction in overnight United States dollar federal funds arranged by three leading brokers of U.S. dollar federal funds transactions in New York City (which may include the agents or their affiliates) selected by the Calculation Agent, prior to 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Business Day following such Federal Funds Rate Interest Determination Date; provided, however, that if the brokers so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in this sentence, the Federal Funds Rate determined as of such
 
Federal Funds Rate Interest Determination Date will be the Federal Funds Rate in effect on such Federal Funds Rate Interest Determination Date.
          (II) If "Federal Funds Open Rate" is the specified Federal Funds Rate in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the Federal Funds Rate as of the applicable Federal Funds Rate Interest Determination Date shall be the rate on such date under the heading "Federal Funds" for the relevant Index Maturity and opposite the caption "Open" as such rate is displayed on Reuters on page 5 (or any other page as may replace such page on such service) ("Reuters Page 5"), or, if such rate does not appear on Reuters Page 5 by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Calculation Date, the Federal Funds Rate for the Federal Funds Rate Interest Determination Date will be the rate for that day displayed on FFPREBON Index page on Bloomberg L.P. ("Bloomberg"), which is the Fed Funds Opening Rate as reported by Prebon Yamane (or a successor) on Bloomberg. If such rate does not appear on Reuters Page 5 or is not displayed on FFPREBON Index page on Bloomberg or another recognized electronic source by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the related Calculation Date, then the Federal Funds Rate on such Federal Funds Rate Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent and will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for the last transaction in overnight United States dollar federal funds arranged by three leading brokers of United States dollar federal funds transactions in New York City (which may include the agents or their affiliates) selected by the Calculation Agent prior to 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on such Federal Funds Rate Interest Determination Date; provided, however, that if the brokers so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in this sentence, the Federal Funds Rate determined as of such Federal Funds Rate Interest Determination Date will be the Federal Funds Rate in effect on such Federal Funds Rate Interest Determination Date.
          (III) If "Federal Funds Target Rate" is the specified Federal Funds Rate in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the Federal Funds Rate as of the applicable Federal Funds Rate Interest Determination Date shall be the rate on such date as displayed on the FDTR Index page on Bloomberg. If such rate does not appear on the FDTR Index page on Bloomberg by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Calculation Date, the Federal Funds Rate for such Federal Funds Rate Interest Determination Date will be the rate for that day appearing on Reuters Page USFFTARGET= (or any other page as may replace such page on such service) ("Reuters Page USFFTARGET="). If such rate does not appear on the FDTR Index page on Bloomberg or is not displayed on Reuters Page USFFTARGET= by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the related Calculation Date, then the Federal Funds Rate on such Federal Funds Rate Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent and will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for the last transaction in overnight United States dollar federal funds arranged by three leading brokers of United States dollar federal funds transactions in New York City (which may include the agents or their affiliates) selected by the Calculation Agent prior to 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on such Federal Funds Rate Interest Determination Date.
          . LIBOR Notes will bear interest for each Interest Reset Period at an interest rate equal to the London interbank offered rate, referred to as LIBOR, plus or minus any Spread, and/or multiplied by any Spread Multiplier, as specified in such LIBOR Note and the applicable Pricing Supplement.
LIBOR Notes
 
          On each Interest Determination Date, LIBOR will be the rate for deposits in the designated LIBOR currency having the index maturity specified in such Pricing Supplement as such rate is displayed on Reuters on page LIBOR01 (or any other page as may replace such page on such service for the purpose of displaying the London interbank rates of major banks for the designated LIBOR currency) ("Reuters Page LIBOR01") as of 11:00 a.m., London time, on such LIBOR Interest Determination Date.
          On any Interest Determination Date on which no rate is displayed on Reuters Page LIBOR01, the calculation agent will determine LIBOR as follows:
          (I) LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the offered rates, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the relevant LIBOR interest determination date, at which deposits in the LIBOR currency having the index maturity described in the related Pricing Supplement, beginning on the relevant interest reset date and in a representative amount, are offered by four major banks in the London interbank market to prime banks in that market. The calculation agent will select the four banks and request the principal London office of each of those banks to provide a quotation of its rate for deposits in the LIBOR currency. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR for that Interest Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of those quotations.
          (II) If fewer than two quotations are provided as mentioned above, LIBOR will be the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted by three major banks in the principal financial center selected by the calculation agent at approximately 11:00 a.m. in the applicable principal financial center, on the Interest Determination Date for loans to leading European banks in the LIBOR currency having the index maturity designated in the pricing supplement and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in the LIBOR currency in that market at that time. The calculation agent will select the three banks referred to above.
          (III) If fewer than three banks selected by the calculation agent are quoting as described above, LIBOR will remain LIBOR then in effect on that Interest Determination Date.
          As referenced above, "LIBOR currency" means the currency specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement as to which LIBOR shall be calculated or, if no such currency is specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, United States dollars.
          . Prime Rate Notes will bear interest at a rate equal to the Prime Rate, plus or minus any Spread, and/or multiplied by any Spread Multiplier as specified in the Prime Rate Notes and the applicable Pricing Supplement.
Prime Rate Notes
          The "Prime Rate" for any Interest Determination Date is the prime rate or base lending rate on that date, as published in H.15(519) by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the calculation date for that Interest Determination Date under the heading "Bank Prime Loan" or, if not published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the related calculation date, the rate on such Interest Determination Date as published in H.15 Daily Update, or such other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying such rate, under the caption "Bank Prime Loan."
 
The calculation agent will follow the following procedures if the Prime Rate cannot be determined as described above:
          (I) If the rate is not published in H.15(519), H.15 Daily Update or another recognized electronic source by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the calculation date, then the calculation agent will determine the Prime Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the rates of interest publicly announced by each bank that appears on USPRIME1 as that bank's prime rate or base lending rate as in effect for that Interest Determination Date.
          (II) If at least one rate but fewer than four rates appear on USPRIME1 on the Interest Determination Date, then the Prime Rate will be the arithmetic mean of the prime rates or base lending rates quoted (on the basis of the actual number of days in the year divided by a 360-day year) as of the close of business on the Interest Determination Date by three major money center banks in the City of New York selected by the calculation agent.
          (III) If the banks selected by the calculation agent are not quoting as mentioned above, the Prime Rate will remain the Prime Rate then in effect on the Interest Determination Date.
          "USPRIME1" means the display on the Reuters 3000 Xtra Service (or any successor service) on the "USPRIME1 Page" (or such other page as may replace the USPRIME1 Page on such service) for the purpose of displaying Prime Rates or base lending rates of major U.S. banks.
          . Treasury Rate Notes will bear interest at a rate equal to the Treasury Rate, plus or minus any Spread, and/or multiplied by any Spread Multiplier as specified in the Treasury Rate Notes and the applicable Pricing Supplement.
Treasury Rate Notes
          The "Treasury Rate" for any Interest Determination Date is the rate from the auction held on such Treasury Rate Interest Determination Date (the "auction") of direct obligations of the United States ("treasury bills") having the index maturity specified in such Pricing Supplement under the caption "INVEST RATE" on the display on Reuters page USAUCTION10 (or any other page as may replace such page on such service) or page USAUCTION11 (or any other page as may replace such page on such service) by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the calculation date for that Interest Determination Date.
          The calculation agent will follow the following procedures if the Treasury Rate cannot be determined as described above:
          (I) If the rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the calculation date, the Treasury Rate will be the bond equivalent yield (as defined below) of the auction rate of such Treasury Bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, or such recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying such rate, under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/ Treasury Bills/ Auction High."
 
          (II) If the rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the calculation date and cannot be determined as described in the immediately preceding paragraph, the Treasury Rate will be the bond equivalent yield of the auction rate of such Treasury Bills as otherwise announced by the United States Department of Treasury.
          (III) If the results of the most recent auction of Treasury Bills having the index maturity described in the pricing supplement are not published or announced as described above by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the calculation date, or if no auction is held on the interest determination date, then the Treasury Rate will be the bond equivalent yield on such interest determination date of Treasury Bills having the index maturity specified in the applicable pricing supplement as published in H.15(519) under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/ Treasury Bills/ Secondary Market" or, if not published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the related calculation date, the rate on such interest determination date of such Treasury Bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, or such other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying such rate, under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/ Treasury Bills (Secondary Market)."
          (IV) If such rate is not published in H.15(519), H.15 Daily Update or another recognized electronic source by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the related calculation date, then the calculation agent will determine the Treasury Rate to be the bond equivalent yield of the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid rates, as of approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the interest determination date of three leading primary U.S. government securities dealers (which may include the Agents or their affiliates) for the issue of Treasury Bills with a remaining maturity closest to the index maturity described in the related Pricing Supplement. The calculation agent will select the three dealers referred to above.
          (V) If fewer than three dealers selected by the calculation agent are quoting as mentioned above, the Treasury Rate will remain the Treasury Rate then in effect on that Interest Determination Date.
          "Bond equivalent yield" means a yield (expressed as a percentage) calculated in accordance with the following formula:
where "D" refers to the applicable per annum rate for Treasury Bills quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal, "N" refers to 365 or 366, as the case may be, and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the applicable Interest Reset Period.
Zero Coupon Notes
          The specific terms of any Zero Coupon Notes will be set forth in the applicable Pricing Supplement.
 
Indexed Notes
          The Company may issue notes for which the amount of interest or principal that will be paid will not be known on its date of issue. The Company will specify the formulae for computing interest or principal payments for these types of notes, which is called "Indexed Notes", by reference to securities, financial or non-financial indices, currencies, commodities, interest rates, or composites or baskets of any or all of the above. Examples of indexed items that the Company may use include a published stock index, the common stock price of a publicly traded company, the value of the U.S. dollar versus the Japanese Yen, or the price in a particular market of a barrel of West Texas intermediate crude oil. The amount of interest and principal that will be paid will depend on the structure of the Indexed Note and the level of the specified indexed item throughout the term of the Indexed Note and at maturity. Specific information pertaining to the method of determining the interest payments and the principal amount will be described in the applicable Pricing Supplement, as well as additional risk factors unique to the Indexed Note, certain historical information for the specified indexed item and certain additional United States federal tax considerations.
          (5) Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, principal of (and premium, if any) and interest (if any) on the Notes will be payable, and, except as provided in Section 305 of the Indenture with respect to any Global Security (as defined below) representing Book-Entry Notes (as defined below), the transfer of the Notes will be registrable and Notes will be exchangeable for Notes bearing identical terms and provisions at the corporate trust office of Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas (the "Paying Agent"), in New York City, New York, provided that payments of interest with respect to any Certificated Note (as defined below), other than interest at maturity or upon redemption, may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to the address of the person or entity entitled thereto as it appears on the security register of the Company at the close of business on the Regular Record Date corresponding to the relevant Interest Payment Date. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, holders of $1,000,000 or more in aggregate principal amount of Certificated Notes shall be entitled to receive payments of interest, other than interest at maturity or upon redemption, by wire transfer of immediately available funds, if appropriate wire transfer instructions have been given to the Paying Agent in writing not later than 15 calendar days prior to the applicable Interest Payment Date.
          (6) If so specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the Notes will be redeemable at the option of the Company on the date or dates prior to maturity specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement at the price or prices specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement: (i) Unless otherwise specified in such Pricing Supplement, in the case of Notes other than Zero Coupon Notes or certain interest bearing notes issued as Original Issue Discount Notes, expressed as a specified percentage of the principal amount of such Note, together with accrued interest, if any, to the date of redemption stated in the applicable Pricing Supplement; (ii) Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, in the case of Zero Coupon Notes or certain interest bearing Notes issued as Original Issue Discount Notes (as specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement), as a specified percentage of the Amortized Face Amount (as defined below) of such Note (as described in paragraph (10) below), together with accrued interest, if any, to the date of redemption (or, in the case of any interest bearing Note issued as an
 
Original Issue Discount Note, any accrued but unpaid "qualified stated interest" payments (as specified in Paragraph (10) below). Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the Company may redeem any of the Notes which are redeemable and remain outstanding either in whole or from time to time in part upon the terms and conditions set forth in Article Eleven of the Indenture.
          (7) Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the Company shall not be obligated to redeem or purchase any Notes of such series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of any Holder.
          (8) Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, Notes of such series may be issued only in fully registered form. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the authorized denomination of the Notes of such series other than Foreign Currency Notes (as defined below), shall be $1,000 or any amount in excess of $1,000 which is an integral multiple of $1,000. Foreign Currency Notes will be issued in the denominations specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement.
          (10) The portion of the principal amount of the Notes, other than Original Issue Discount Notes (including any Zero Coupon Notes), which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of maturity thereof shall not be other than the principal amount thereof. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the portion of the principal amount of Zero Coupon Notes and certain interest bearing Notes issued as Original Issue Discount Notes (as specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement) upon any acceleration of the maturity thereof will be the Amortized Face Amount and in the case of an interest-bearing note issued as an Original Issue Discount Note, any accrued but unpaid qualified stated interest payments. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the amount payable to the holder of such Original Issue Discount Note upon any redemption thereof will be the applicable specified percentage of the Amortized Face Amount thereof specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, and in the case of any interest bearing Note issued as an Original Issue Discount Note, any accrued but unpaid "qualified stated interest" payments (as defined in the Treasury Regulations regarding original issue discount issued by the Treasury Department (the "Regulations")). The "Amortized Face Amount" of an Original Issue Discount Note shall be the amount equal to the sum of (a) the Issue Price (as set forth on the face of such Original Issue Discount Note) plus (b) the aggregate of the portions of the original issue discount (the excess of the amounts considered as part of the "stated redemption price at maturity" of such Original Issue Discount Note within the meaning of Section 1273(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), whether denominated as principal or interest, over the Issue Price of Original Issue Discount Note) which shall theretofore have accrued pursuant to Section 1272 of the Code (without regard to Section 1272(a)(7) of the Code) from the date of issue of Original Issue Discount Note to the date of determination, minus (c) any amount considered as part of the "stated redemption price at maturity" of such Original Issue Discount Note which has been paid on such Original Issue Discount Note from the date of issue to the date of determination. In no event can the Amortized Face Amount exceed the principal amount of such Note due at the stated maturity thereof.
 
          (11) The Notes may be denominated, and payments of principal of and interest on the Notes will be made, in United States dollars or in such foreign currencies or foreign currency units (a "Specified Currency") as may be specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement ("Foreign Currency Notes").
          (12) Except as otherwise described in Paragraphs (4) and (10) above, the amount of payments of principal of and any premium or interest on the Notes will not be determined with reference to an index.
          (13) Foreign Currency Notes will be paid in U.S. dollars converted from the Specified Currency unless a Holder of Foreign Currency Notes elects to be paid in the Specified Currency or unless the applicable Pricing Supplement provides otherwise. In the case of a Note having a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars, the principal of that Note in U.S. dollars will be based on the highest bid quotation in The City of New York received by an agent specified in the applicable pricing supplement (the "exchange rate agent") at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the second business day preceding the applicable payment date from three recognized foreign exchange dealers (one of whom may be the exchange rate agent) selected by the exchange rate agent and approved by the Company for the purchase by the quoting dealer of the specified currency for U.S. dollars for settlement on such payment date in the aggregate amount of the Specified Currency payable to all holders of Foreign Currency Notes scheduled to receive U.S. dollar payments and at which the applicable dealer commits to execute a contract. If three such bid quotations are not available, the Company will make payments in the Specified Currency. All currency exchange costs will be borne by the holders of the Foreign Currency Note by deductions from such payments. Unless indicated otherwise in the applicable Pricing Supplement, a holder of Foreign Currency Notes may elect to receive payment of the principal of and interest on the Foreign Currency Notes in the Specified Currency by transmitting a written request for such payment to the corporate trust office of the Trustee in The City of New York on or prior to the Regular Record Date or at least 15 calendar days prior to maturity, as the case may be. A Holder may make this request in writing (mailed or hand delivered) or sent by facsimile transmission. A Holder of a Foreign Currency note may elect to receive payment in the Specified Currency for all principal and interest payments and need not file a separate election for each payment. Such Holder's election will remain in effect until revoked by written notice to the Trustee, but written notice of any such revocation must be received by the Trustee on or prior to the Regular Record Date or at least 15 calendar days prior to the maturity date, as the case may be. If a Specified Currency is not available for the payment of principal, premium or interest with respect to a Foreign Currency Note due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the Company's control, the Company will be entitled to satisfy its obligations to Holders of Foreign Currency Notes by making such payment in U.S. dollars on the basis of the noon buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers of the specified currency as certified for customs purposes (or, if not so certified as otherwise determined) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the "market exchange rate") as computed by the exchange rate agent on the second business day prior to such payment or, if not then available, on the basis of the most recently available market exchange rate or as otherwise indicated in an applicable Pricing Supplement. All determinations referred to above made by the exchange rate agent will be at its sole discretion and will, in the absence of clear error, be conclusive for all purposes and binding on the Holders of the Foreign Currency Notes.
 
          (15) Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the Notes shall be subject to the events of default specified in Section 501, paragraphs (1) through (8) of the Indenture.
          (16) Each Note will be represented by either a master global note or a global note in fully registered form (each a "Global Note") registered in the name of a nominee of the Depository (each such Note represented by a Global Note being herein referred to as a "Book-Entry Note") or a certificate issued in definitive registered form, without coupons (a "Certificated Note"), as set forth in the applicable Pricing Supplement. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, The Depository Trust Company will act as Depositary. Except as provided in Section 305 of the Indenture, Book-Entry Notes will not be issuable in certificated form and will not be exchangeable or transferable. So long as the Depositary or its nominee is the registered holder of any Global Note, the Depositary or its nominee, as the case may be, will be considered the sole Holder of the Book-Entry Note or Notes represented by such Global Note for all purposes under the Indenture and the Notes.
          (18) Interest will be payable to the person in whose name a Note (or one or more predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date (as defined below) next preceding each Interest Payment Date (as defined below); provided, however, that interest payable at maturity or upon redemption will be payable to the person to whom principal shall be payable.
          (19) Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the Notes shall be defeasible pursuant to Sections 1302 and 1303 of the Indenture.
          (22) The Company will pay any administrative costs imposed by banks in making payments in immediately available funds, but, except as otherwise provided under Additional Amounts in the applicable Pricing Supplement, any tax, assessment or governmental charge imposed upon payments will be borne by the Holders of the Notes in respect of which such payments are made.
          (25) Subject to the terms of the Indenture and the resolutions and authorization referred to in the first paragraph hereof, the Notes shall have such other terms (which may be in addition to or different from the terms set forth herein) as are specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement.
          B. .
Establishment of Note Forms pursuant to Section 201 of Indenture
          It is hereby established pursuant to Section 201 of the Indenture that the Global Securities representing Book-Entry Notes shall be substantially in the forms attached as hereto, unless a different form is provided in the applicable Pricing Supplement (which Pricing Supplement shall be deemed a copy of a Board Resolution certified by the secretary or an assistant secretary of the Company satisfying the requirements of Section 201 of the Indenture).
Exhibits A, B, C, D and E
 
          C. .
Establishment or Procedures for Authentication of Notes Pursuant to Section 303 of Indenture
          It is hereby ordered pursuant to Section 303 of the Indenture that Notes may be authenticated by the Trustee and issued in accordance with the Administrative Procedures attached hereto as and upon receipt by the Trustee (including by facsimile) of a Pricing Supplement to this Officers' Certificate and Company Order, in substantially the form attached as hereto (a "Pricing Supplement"), setting forth the information specified or contemplated therein for the particular Notes to be authenticated and issued.
Exhibit F
Exhibit G
          D. .
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Debt
          In connection with the Company's participation in the debt guarantee program (the "Debt Guarantee Program") established by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") pursuant to 12 C.F.R. Part 370 (as may be amended or supplemented from time to time, the "Rule"), any Authorized Officer may affirmatively elect to exercise the right to issue senior unsecured guaranteed debt in accordance with the Debt Guarantee Program, or to issue senior unsecured non-guaranteed debt with maturities beyond June 30, 2012, pursuant to, and as set forth in the Rule and as described in the applicable Pricing Supplement. Any Global or Certificated Notes issued hereunder which affirmatively indicate that they are subject to the Debt Guarantee Program (including without limitation such forms of Global Notes as set forth in and attached hereto) shall contain such terms as required by the Rule, and shall bear an appropriate legend to the effect that such Global or Certificated Note is guaranteed by the FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program.
Exhibits D
E
          As required in accordance with the Debt Guarantee Program, the Global or Certificated Note evidencing FDIC guaranteed debt shall designate the Trustee as the duly authorized representative of the holders for purposes of making claims and taking other permitted or required actions under the Debt Guarantee Program.
          In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Officers' Certificate and Company Order, the Indenture or the Notes, on the one hand, and the rules and regulations of the Debt Guarantee Program or the Master Agreement (and any amendments thereto) entered into by the Company and the FDIC (the "Master Agreement"), on the other hand, such rules and regulations and/or such Master Agreement shall control.
          E. .
Other Matters
          The applicable Pricing Supplement shall specify any agent of the Company designated for the purpose of delivering, for cancellation by the Trustee pursuant to Section 310 of the Indenture, Notes which have not been issued and sold by the Company.
          Attached as hereto is a true and correct copy of resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company on May 15, 2008 and attached as hereto is a true and correct copy of resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company on June 7, 2008; such resolutions have not been further amended, modified or
Exhibit H-1
Exhibit H-2
 
rescinded and remain in full force and effect; and such resolutions are the only resolutions adopted by the Company's Board of Directors or by any Authorized Officers relating to the offering and sale of the Notes.
 
     The undersigned have read the pertinent sections of the Indenture including the related definitions contained therein. The undersigned have examined the resolutions adopted by the Company's Board of Directors. In the opinion of the undersigned, the undersigned have made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable the undersigned to express an informed opinion as to whether or not the conditions precedent to the establishment of (i) a series of Securities, (ii) the forms of such Securities and (iii) the procedures for authentication of such series of Securities, contained in the Indenture have been complied with. In the opinion of the undersigned, such conditions have been complied with.
Dated: December 15, 2008

Exhibit 4.2(d)
THIS SECURITY IS AN OBLIGATION OF KEYCORP AND IS NOT AND WILL NOT BE A SAVINGS ACCOUNT, A DEPOSIT OR OTHER OBLIGATION OF ANY BANK OR NONBANK SUBSIDIARY OF KEYCORP.
THIS SECURITY IS GUARANTEED BY THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION ("FDIC"), AND THE RIGHTS OF THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN RIGHTS OF THE FDIC, AS AND TO THE EXTENT SET FORTH IN THIS SECURITY, INCLUDING SECTIONS 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 AND 21 ON THE REVERSE HEREOF.
CUSIP NO. 
                    
REGISTERED PRINCIPAL AMOUNT $
                    
No. FX-______
If the registered owner of this Security (as indicated below) is The Depository Trust Company (the "") or a nominee of the Depository, this Security is a Global Security and the following two legends apply:
Depository
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company to the issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and such certificate issued is registered in the name of CEDE & CO., or such other name as requested by an authorized representative of the Depository, ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL, since the registered owner hereof, CEDE & CO., has an interest herein.
Unless and until this certificate is exchanged in whole or in part for Notes in certificated form, this certificate may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depository to a nominee thereof or by a nominee thereof to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository or by the Depository or any such nominee to a successor of the Depository or a nominee of such successor.
IF APPLICABLE, THE "," "" AND "" (COMPUTED UNDER THE APPROXIMATE METHOD) BELOW WILL BE COMPLETED SOLELY FOR THE PURPOSES OF APPLYING THE FEDERAL INCOME TAX ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT ("") RULES.
TOTAL AMOUNT OF OID
YIELD TO MATURITY
INITIAL ACCRUAL PERIOD OID
OID
 
ISSUE PRICE:
ORIGINAL ISSUE PRICE:
STATED MATURITY:
MINIMUM DENOMINATIONS:  $1,000  Other:
o
o
SPECIFIED CURRENCY: United States Dollars:  YES      NO
o
o
FOREIGN CURRENCY:
EXCHANGE RATE AGENT
PAYING AGENT:
PLACE OF PAYMENT:
OPTION TO RECEIVE PAYMENTS IN SPECIFIED CURRENCY OTHER THAN
U.S. DOLLARS:  YES      NO
o
o
INTEREST RATE:
COMPUTATION PERIOD:
INTEREST PAYMENT DATES IF OTHER THAN JUNE 15 AND DECEMBER 15:
REGULAR RECORD DATES IF OTHER THAN JUNE 1 AND DECEMBER 1:
OPTIONAL REDEMPTION:   YES      NO
o
o
INITIAL REDEMPTION DATE:
ADDITIONAL REDEMPTION DATES:
INITIAL REDEMPTION PERCENTAGE:
ANNUAL REDEMPTION PERCENTAGE REDUCTION:
OPTION TO ELECT REPAYMENT:   YES      NO
o
o
REPAYMENT DATE(S):
REPAYMENT PRICE:
ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS:
DEFEASANCE:   YES      NO
o
o
COVENANT DEFEASANCE:   YES      NO
o
o
OPTIONAL INTEREST RATE RESET:  YES      NO
o
o
OPTIONAL INTEREST RATE RESET DATES:
OPTIONAL EXTENSION OF MATURITY:  YES      NO
o
o
LENGTH OF EXTENSION PERIOD:
NUMBER OF EXTENSION PERIODS:
TOTAL AMOUNT OF OID:
ORIGINAL YIELD TO MATURITY:
INITIAL ACCRUAL PERIOD OID:
SINKING FUND:
OTHER/DIFFERENT PROVISIONS:
 
     KEYCORP, an Ohio corporation (herein referred to as the "," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO. or registered assigns, the principal sum of  DOLLARS ($ ) on the Stated Maturity shown above (except to the extent redeemed, repaid, renewed or extended prior to the Stated Maturity) and to pay interest thereon at the Interest Rate shown above from the Original Issue Date shown above or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest, if any, has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 of each year (unless other Interest Payment Dates are shown on the face hereof and except as provided in the next succeeding paragraph) (each, an "") until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment and on the Stated Maturity, any Redemption Date or Repayment Date (such terms are together hereinafter referred to as the "" with respect to the principal repayable on such date); , , that any payment of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, to be made on any Interest Payment Date or on the Maturity Date that is not a Business Day (as defined below) shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be, and no additional interest, if any, shall accrue on the amount so payable as a result of such delayed payment.
Company
                    
Interest Payment Date
Maturity Date
provided
however
     For purposes of this Security, unless otherwise specified on the face hereof, "" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is not a legal holiday nor a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York City; , , that with respect to foreign currency Notes, such day is also not a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in the Principal Financial Center (as defined below) of the country issuing the Specified Currency (or if the Specified Currency is the euro, such day is also a day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System is open); provided, however, that, with respect to Section 17 on the reverse hereof and hereto, the definition of "Business Day" therein shall apply.
Business Day
provided
however
Exhibit B
     "" means the capital city of the country issuing the Specified Currency, except that with respect to United States dollars, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, euro, New Zealand dollars, South African rand and Swiss francs, the "principal financial center" shall be New York City, Sydney, Toronto, London (solely in the case of the designated LIBOR currency), Wellington, Johannesburg and Zurich, respectively.
Principal Financial Center
     Any interest hereon is accrued from, and including, the next preceding Interest Payment Date in respect of which interest, if any, has been paid or duly provided for (or from, and including, the Original Issue Date if no interest has been paid) to, but excluding, the succeeding Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be. The interest, if any, so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture (referred to on the reverse hereof), be paid to the person (the "") in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the 15th day (whether or not a Business Day) next preceding such Interest Payment Date (a ""); , , that, if this Security was issued between a Regular Record Date and the initial Interest Payment Date relating to such Regular Record Date, interest, if any, for the period beginning on the Original Issue Date and ending on such initial Interest Payment
Holder
Regular Record Date
provided
however
 
Date shall be paid on the Interest Payment Date following the next succeeding Regular Record Date to the Holder hereof on such next succeeding Regular Record Date; and that interest, if any, payable on the Maturity Date will be payable to the person to whom the principal hereof shall be payable. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for ("") will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a special record date (the "") for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee (referred to on the reverse hereof), notice whereof shall be given to the Holder of this Security not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
provided further
Defaulted Interest
Special Record Date
     
The Company and the Trustee acknowledge that the Company has not opted out of the debt guarantee program (the "
Debt Guarantee Program
") established by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("
FDIC
") under its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. As a result,
this debt is guaranteed under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. The details of the FDIC guarantee are provided in the FDIC's regulations, 12 CFR Part 370, and at the FDIC's website, www.fdic.gov/tlgp. The expiration date of the FDIC's guarantee is the earlier of the maturity date of this debt or June 30, 2012.
     The Trustee is hereby designated as the duly authorized representative of the Holder for purposes of making claims and taking other permitted or required actions under the Debt Guarantee Program (the ""). Any Holder may elect not to be represented by the Representative by providing written notice of such election to the Representative.
Representative
     Unless otherwise specified above, all payments in respect of this Security will be made in U.S. dollars regardless of the Specified Currency shown above unless the Holder hereof makes the election described below. If the Specified Currency shown above is other than U.S. dollars, the Exchange Rate Agent (referred to on the reverse hereof) will arrange to convert all payments in respect hereof into U.S. dollars in the manner described on the reverse hereof; , , that the Holder hereof may, if so indicated above, elect to receive all payments in such Specified Currency by delivery of a written request to the corporate trust office of the Trustee in New York City, on or prior to the applicable Regular Record Date or at least 15 days prior to the Stated Maturity, as the case may be. Such request may be in writing with a signature guarantee, mailed or hand delivered, or by cable, telex, or other form of facsimile transmission. The Holder hereof may elect to receive payment in such Specified Currency for all principal, premium, if any, and interest payments and need not file a separate election for each payment. Such election will remain in effect until revoked by written notice to the Trustee, but written notice of any such revocation must be received by the Trustee on or prior to the Regular Record Date or at least 15 days prior to the Stated Maturity, as the case may be. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company determines that the Specified Currency is not available for making payments in respect hereof due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the Company's control, or is no longer used by the government of the country issuing such currency or for the settlement of transactions by public institutions of or within the international banking community, then the Holder hereof may not so elect to receive payments in the Specified Currency and any such outstanding election shall be automatically suspended, until the Company determines that the Specified Currency is again available for making such payments.
provided
however
 
     In the event of an official redenomination of the Specified Currency, the obligations of the Company with respect to payments on this Security shall, in all cases, be deemed immediately following such redenomination to provide for payment of that amount of redenominated currency representing the amount of such obligations immediately before such redenomination. In no event shall any adjustment be made to any amount payable hereunder as a result of any change in the value of the Specified Currency shown above relative to any other currency due solely to fluctuations in exchange rates.
     Unless otherwise shown above, payment of interest on this Security (other than on the Maturity Date) will be made by check mailed to the registered address of the Holder hereof; , , that, if (i) the Specified Currency is U.S. dollars and the Holder hereof is the Holder of U.S.$1,000,000 or more in aggregate principal amount of Securities of the series of which this Security is a part (whether having identical or different terms and provisions) or (ii) the Specified Currency is a Foreign Currency, and the Holder has elected to receive payments in such Specified Currency as provided for above, such interest payments will be made by transfer of immediately available funds, but only if appropriate instructions have been received in writing by the Trustee on or prior to the applicable Regular Record Date. Simultaneously with any election by the Holder hereof to receive payments in respect hereof in the Specified Currency (if other than U.S. dollars), such Holder may provide appropriate instructions to the Trustee, and all such payments will be made in immediately available funds to an account maintained by the payee with a bank, but only if such bank has appropriate facilities therefor. Unless otherwise specified above, the principal hereof (and premium, if any) and interest hereon payable on the Maturity Date will be paid in immediately available funds upon surrender of this Security at the corporate trust office of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City and State of New York (or at such other location as may be specified above). The Company will pay any administrative costs imposed by banks in making payments in immediately available funds, but, except as otherwise provided under Additional Amounts above, any tax, assessment or governmental charge imposed upon payments will be borne by the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such payments are made.
provided
however
     Unless otherwise specified on the face hereof, interest on this Security, if any, will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
     REFERENCE IS HEREBY MADE TO THE FURTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS SECURITY SET FORTH ON THE REVERSE HEREOF, WHICH FURTHER PROVISIONS SHALL FOR ALL PURPOSES HAVE THE SAME EFFECT AS IF SET FORTH AT THIS PLACE.
 
     Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its facsimile corporate seal.
[Seal]
 
     Section 1. . This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities (herein called the "") of the Company, issued and to be issued in one or more series under and pursuant to an indenture, dated as of June 10, 1994, as it may be supplemented from time to time (herein called the ""), between the Company and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee (herein called the "," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture with respect to a series of which this Security is a part), to which indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto, reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. The Indenture was amended pursuant to a First Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 14, 2001, copies of which are available from the Company or the Trustee. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, which is unlimited in aggregate principal amount.
General
Securities
Indenture
Trustee
     Section 2. . If the Specified Currency is other than U.S. dollars and the Holder hereof fails to elect payment in such Specified Currency, the amount of U.S. dollar payments to be made in respect hereof will be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent specified on the face hereof or a successor thereto (the "") based on the highest bid quotation in New York City at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the second Business Day preceding the applicable payment date from three recognized foreign exchange dealers selected by the Exchange Rate Agent (one of which may be the Exchange Rate Agent unless the Exchange Rate Agent is the applicable agent to or through which this Security was originally sold) for the purchase by the quoting dealer of the Specified Currency for U.S. dollars for settlement on such payment date in the aggregate amount of the Specified Currency payable to all Holders of Securities denominated in a Foreign Currency scheduled to receive U.S. dollar payments and at which the applicable dealer commits to execute a contract. If three of such bid quotations are not available, payments will be made in the Specified Currency.
Payments
Exchange Rate Agent
     Except as set forth below, if the Specified Currency is other than U.S. dollars and the Specified Currency is not available due to the imposition of exchange controls or to other circumstances beyond the Company's control, or is no longer used by the government of the country issuing such currency or for settlement of transactions by public institutions of or within the international banking community, the Company will be entitled to make payments in U.S. dollars on the basis of the noon buying rate in New York City for cable transfers of such Specified Currency as certified for customs purposes (or, if not so certified as otherwise determined) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the "") as computed by the Exchange Rate Agent for such Specified Currency on the second Business Day prior to such payment or, if the Market Exchange Rate is then not available, on the basis of the most recently available Market Exchange Rate or as otherwise indicated on the face hereof. Any payment made under such circumstances in U.S. dollars where the required payment is in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars will not constitute an Event of Default or Default under the Indenture.
Market Exchange Rate
 
     All determinations referred to above made by the Exchange Rate Agent shall be at its sole discretion and, in the absence of manifest error, shall be conclusive for all purposes and binding on the Holder of this Security.
     All currency exchange costs will be borne by the Holder of this Security through deductions from payments otherwise due to such Holder.
     References herein to "" or "" or "" are to the currency of the United States of America.
U.S. dollars
U.S. $
$
     Section 3. . If so specified on the face hereof, the Company may at its option redeem this Security in whole or from time to time in part in increments of $1,000 (provided that any remaining principal amount of this Security shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination of such Security) on or after the date designated as the Initial Redemption Date on the face hereof at 100% of the unpaid principal amount hereof or the portion thereof redeemed (or, if this Security is a Discount Security, such lesser amount as is provided for below) multiplied by the Initial Redemption Percentage specified on the face hereof, together with accrued interest to the Redemption Date. Such Initial Redemption Percentage shall decline at each anniversary of the Initial Redemption Date by an amount equal to the Annual Redemption Percentage Reduction specified on the face hereof until the redemption price is 100% of such amount. The Company may exercise such option by causing the Trustee to mail a notice of such redemption at least 30 but not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date. In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities for the unredeemed portion hereof shall be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof. If less than all the Securities of the series, of which this Security is a part, with differing issue dates, interest rates and stated maturities are to be redeemed, the Company in its sole discretion shall select the particular Securities to be redeemed and shall notify the Trustee in writing thereof at least 45 days prior to the relevant redemption date. If less than all of the Securities with like tenor and terms to this Security are to be redeemed, the Securities to be redeemed shall be selected by the Trustee by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate.
Redemption
     Section 4. . If so specified on the face hereof, this Security shall be repayable prior to the Stated Maturity at the option of the Holder on each applicable Repayment Date shown on the face hereof at the Repayment Price shown on the face hereof, together with accrued interest to the Repayment Date. In order for this Security to be repaid, the Paying Agent must receive at least 30 but not more than 45 days prior to a Repayment Date this Security with the form attached hereto entitled "" duly completed. Except as set forth in Section 308 of the Indenture, any tender of this Security for repayment shall be irrevocable. The repayment option may be exercised by the Holder of this Security in whole or in part in increments of $1,000 (provided that any remaining principal amount of this Security shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination hereof). Upon any partial repayment, this Security shall be canceled and a new Security or Securities for the remaining principal amount hereof shall be issued in the name of the Holder of this Security.
Repayment
Option to Elect Repayment
     Section 5. . Unless otherwise specified on the face hereof, this Security will not be subject to any sinking fund.
Sinking Fund
     Section 6. . If this Security (such Security being referred to as an "") (a) has been issued at an Issue Price lower, by more than a amount (as determined under United States federal income tax rules applicable to
Discount Securities
Original Issue Discount Security
de minimis
 
original issue discount instruments), than its "stated redemption price at Maturity" (as defined below) and (b) would be considered an original issue discount security for United States federal income tax purposes, then the amount payable on this Security in the event of redemption by the Company, repayment at the option of the Holder or acceleration of the maturity hereof, in lieu of the principal amount due at the Stated Maturity hereof, shall be the Amortized Face Amount (as defined below) of this Security as of the date of such redemption, repayment or acceleration. The "" of this Security shall be the amount equal to the sum of (a) the Issue Price (as set forth on the face hereof) plus (b) the aggregate of the portions of the original issue discount (the excess of the amounts considered as part of the "stated redemption price at maturity" of this Security within the meaning of Section 1273(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), whether denominated as principal or interest, over the Issue Price of this Security) which shall theretofore have accrued pursuant to Section 1272 of the Code (without regard to Section 1272(a)(7) of the Code) from the date of issue of this Security to the date of determination, minus (c) any amount considered as part of the "stated redemption price at maturity" of this Security which has been paid on this Security from the date of issue to the date of determination.
Amortized Face Amount
Code
     Section 7. . The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series. Such amendment may be effected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a 66-2/3% in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of not less than 66-2/3% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, on behalf of the Holders of all Outstanding Securities, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture. Provisions in the Indenture also permit the Holders of not less than 66-2/3% in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities of any series to waive on behalf of all of the Holders of all the Securities of such series and any related coupons certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver shall be conclusive and binding upon the Holder of this Security and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
Modifications and Waivers
     Section 8. . The Securities are unsecured and rank with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company.
Ranking; Obligations of the Company Absolute
pari passu
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the Specified Currency herein prescribed.
     Section 9. . The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Security, unless otherwise specified on the face hereof.
Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
     Section 10. . Unless otherwise provided on the face hereof, this Security is issuable only in registered form without coupons issued in denominations of
Authorized Denominations
 
$1,000 or any amount in excess thereof which is an integral multiple of $1,000. If this Security is denominated in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars or is an Original Issue Discount Security, this Security shall be issuable in the denominations set forth on the face hereof.
     Section 11. . As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations herein and therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at a Place of Payment for the series of Securities of which this Security is a part, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
Registration of Transfer
     If the registered owner of this Security is the Depository (such a Security being referred to herein as a "") and (i) the Depository is at any time unwilling or unable to continue as depository and a successor depository is not appointed by the Company within 90 days following notice to the Company or (ii) an Event of Default occurs, the Company will issue Securities in certificated form in exchange for this Global Security. In addition, the Company may at any time determine not to have Securities represented by this Global Security and, in such event, will issue Securities in certificated form in exchange in whole for this Global Security representing such Security. In any such instance, an owner of a beneficial interest in a Global Security will be entitled to physical delivery in certificated form of Securities equal in principal amount to such beneficial interest and to have such Securities registered in its name. Securities so issued in certificated form will be issued in denominations of $1,000 (or such other denomination as shall be specified by the Company) or any amount in excess thereof which is an integral multiple of $1,000 and will be issued in registered form only, without coupons.
Global Security
     No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
     Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Holder as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     Section 12. . If an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of the series of which this Security forms a part shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal of this Security may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
Events of Default
     Section 13. . Sections 501 and 502 of the Indenture are hereby amended with respect to the Securities of this series to the extent necessary to comply with Section 5.01 and Annex A of the Master Agreement, executed by the Company and delivered to the FDIC on December 8, 2008, as the same may be amended from time to time (the ""), by and between the Company and the FDIC, attached hereto as . Subject to the immediately preceding sentence and Section 19 of the reverse of this Security, if an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
Remedies
Master Agreement
Exhibit A
 
     Section 14. . The FDIC shall be subrogated to all of the rights of the Holder and the Representative under this Security and the Indenture against the Company in respect of any amounts paid to the Holder, or for the benefit of the Holder, by the FDIC pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program.
Subrogation
     Section 15. . The Holder hereby authorizes the Representative, at such time as the FDIC shall commence making any guarantee payments to the Representative for the benefit of the Holder pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program, to execute an assignment in the form attached to this Security as pursuant to which the Representative shall assign to the FDIC its right as Representative to receive any and all payments from the Company under this Security on behalf of the Holder. The Company hereby consents and agrees that the FDIC is an acceptable transferee for all or any portion of the indebtedness hereunder for all purposes of this Security and upon any such assignment, the FDIC shall be deemed the Holder of this Security for all purposes hereof, and the Company hereby agrees to take such reasonable steps as are necessary to comply with any relevant provision of this Security and the Indenture as a result of such assignment.
Agreement to Execute Assignment upon Guarantee Payment
Exhibit B
     Section 305 of the Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Securities of this series to the extent necessary to permit the Holder, the Representative and the Company to comply with this Section 15.
     Section 16. . If, at any time on or prior to the expiration of the period during which senior unsecured debt of the Company is guaranteed by the FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program (the ""), payment in full hereunder shall be made pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on the outstanding principal and accrued interest to such date of payment, the Holder shall, or the Holder shall cause the person or entity in possession to, promptly surrender to the FDIC this Security.
Surrender of Senior Unsecured Debt Instrument to the FDIC
Effective Period
     Section 17. . If, at any time prior to the earlier of (a) full satisfaction of the payment obligations hereunder, or (b) expiration of the Effective Period, the Company is in default of any payment obligation hereunder, including timely payment of any accrued and unpaid interest, without regard to any cure period, the Representative covenants and agrees that it shall provide written notice to the FDIC within one (1) Business Day of such payment default. Solely for the purpose of this Section 17, "" means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks are required or authorized by law to be closed in the State of New York.
Notice Obligations to FDIC of Payment Default
Business Day
     Section 18. . Any indebtedness of the Company to the FDIC arising under Section 2.03 of the Master Agreement will constitute a senior unsecured general obligation of the Company, ranking with any indebtedness hereunder.
Ranking
pari passu
     Section 19. . There shall not be deemed to be an Event of Default under this Security or the Indenture which would permit or result in the acceleration of amounts due hereunder, if such an Event of Default is due solely to the failure of the Company to make timely payment hereunder, provided that the FDIC is making timely guarantee payments with respect to the Securities of this series in accordance with 12 C.F.R Part 370.
No Event of Default during Time of Timely FDIC Guarantee Payments
 
     Section 20. . Without the express written consent of the FDIC, the Company and the Trustee agree not to amend, modify, supplement or waive any provision in this Security or the Indenture that is related to the principal, interest, payment, default or ranking of the indebtedness hereunder or that is required to be included herein pursuant to the Master Agreement.
No Modifications without FDIC Consent
     Section 21. . Upon an uncured failure by the Company to make a timely payment of principal or interest on this Security (a ""), the Representative, on behalf of all holders of such Security that are represented by the Representative, shall submit to the FDIC a demand for payment by the FDIC of such unpaid principal and interest (i) in the case of any payment due by the Company prior to the final maturity or redemption of such Security, on the earlier of the date that the applicable cure period ends (or if such date is not a Business Day, the immediately succeeding Business Day) and 60 days following such Payment Default and (ii) in the case of any payment due by the Company on the final maturity date or on a redemption date for such Security, on such final maturity date or redemption date (or if such date is not a Business Day, the immediately succeeding Business Day). Such demand shall be accompanied by a proof of claim, which shall include evidence, to the extent not previously provided in the Master Agreement, in form and content satisfactory to the FDIC, of: (A) the Representative's financial and organizational capacity to act as Representative; (B) the Representative's exclusive authority to act on behalf of the holder and its fiduciary responsibility to the holder when acting as such, as established by the terms of this Security and the Indenture; (C) the occurrence of a payment default; and (D) the authority to make an assignment of the holder's right, title, and interest in this Security to the FDIC and to effect the transfer to the FDIC of the holder's claim in any insolvency proceeding. Such assignment shall include the right of the FDIC to receive any and all distributions on this Security from the proceeds of the receivership or bankruptcy estate. Any demand under this paragraph shall be made in writing and directed to the Director, Division of Resolution and Receiverships, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Washington, D.C., and shall include all supporting evidences as provided in this paragraph, and shall certify to the accuracy thereof.
Demand Obligations to FDIC upon the Company's Failure to Pay
Payment Default
     Section 22. . All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture and are not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Defined Terms
     Section 23. . This Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Indenture and this Security, on the one hand, and the rules and regulations of the Debt Guarantee Program or the Master Agreement (and any amendment thereto), on the other hand, such rules and regulations and/or Master Agreement shall control.
Governing Law; Conflicts
 
     The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
     TEN COM  as tenants in common
     TEN ENT  as tenants by the entireties
     JT TEN  as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common
     Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
 
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER      IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE:
 
 
 
the within Security of KEYCORP and all rights thereunder and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint:
     Attorney to transfer the said Security on the books of the within-named Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
 
SIGNATURE GUARANTEED:
 
 
          The undersigned hereby irrevocably requests and instructs the Company to repay this Security (or the portion thereof specified below), pursuant to its terms, on the "" first occurring after the date of receipt of the within Security as specified below, at a Repayment Price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof, together with interest thereon accrued to the Repayment Date, to the undersigned at:
Repayment Date
          .
For this Option to Elect Repayment to be effective, this Security with the Option to Elect Repayment duly completed must be received at least 30 but not more than 45 days prior to the Repayment Date (or, if such Repayment Date is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day) by the Company at its office or agency, which will be located initially at the office of the Trustee at Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, 60 Wall Street, New York, New York 10005, Attention: Corporate Trust & Agency Services
          If less than the entire principal amount of the within Security is to be repaid, specify the portion thereof (which shall be $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) which is to be repaid: $.
                    
          If less than the entire principal amount of the within Security is to be repaid, specify the denomination(s) of the Security(ies) to be issued for the unpaid amount ($1,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000; that any remaining principal amount of this Security shall not be less than the minimum denomination of such Security): $.
provided
                    
 
EXHIBIT A
11/24/08
TLGP Master Agreement
 
11/24/08
TLGP Master Agreement
 
     (this "") is being entered into as of the date set forth on the signature page hereto by and between THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATIONa corporation organized under the laws of the United States of America and having its principal office in Washington, D.C. (the ""), and the entity whose name appears on the signature page hereto (the "").
THIS MASTER AGREEMENT
Master Agreement
,
FDIC
Issuer
     , on November 21, 2008, the FDIC issued its Final Rule, 12 C.F.R. Part 370 (as may be amended from time to time, the ""), establishing the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the ""); and
WHEREAS
Rule
Program
     , pursuant to the Rule, the FDIC will guarantee the payment of certain newly-issued "senior unsecured debt" (as defined in the Rule, hereinafter "") issued by an "eligible entity" (as defined in the Rule); and
WHEREAS
Senior Unsecured Debt
     , the Issuer is an eligible entity for purposes of the Rule and has elected to participate in the debt guarantee component of the Program.
WHEREAS
     As used in this Master Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
1.01.
Certain Defined Terms
.
          "" means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks are required or authorized by law to be closed in the State of New York.
Business Day
          "" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the introductory paragraph to this Master Agreement.
FDIC
          "" means the guarantee of payment by the FDIC of the Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer in accordance with the terms of the Program.
FDIC Guarantee
          "" means any payment made by the FDIC under the Program with respect to Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer.
Guarantee Payment
          "" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Guarantee Payment Notice
Section 2.02
          "" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the introductory paragraph to this Master Agreement.
Issuer
          "" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Issuer Make-Whole Payments
Section 2.03
TLGP 11/24/08
Master Agreement
 
          "" means reports, registrations, documents, filings, statements and submissions, together with any amendments thereto, that the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer is required to file with any governmental entity.
Issuer Reports
          "" means this Master Agreement, together with all Annexes and amendments hereto.
Master Agreement
          "" means a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations or financial condition of the Issuer and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Effect
          "" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Recitals.
Program
          "" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Reimbursement Payment
Section 2.03
          "" means any provision that is related to the principal, interest, payment, default or ranking of the Senior Unsecured Debt, any provision contained in Annex A or any other provision the amendment of which would require the consent of any or all of the holders of such debt.
Relevant Provision
          "" means the trustee, administrative agent, paying agent or other fiduciary or agent designated as the "Representative" under the governing documents for any Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer subject to the FDIC Guarantee for purposes of submitting claims or taking other actions under the Program.
Representative
          "" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Recitals.
Rule
          "" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Recitals.
Senior Unsecured Debt
     Words in the singular shall be held to include the plural and vice versa and words of one gender shall be held to include the other gender as the context requires, the terms "hereof", "herein" and "herewith" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Master Agreement and not to any particular provision of this Master Agreement, and Article, Section and paragraph references are to the Articles, Sections and paragraphs of this Master Agreement unless otherwise specified, and the word "including" and words of similar import when used in this Master Agreement shall mean "including, without limitation", unless otherwise specified.
1.02.
Terms Generally
.
     . The FDIC hereby acknowledges that the Issuer has elected to participate in the debt guarantee component of the Program and that, as a result, the Issuer's Senior Unsecured Debt is guaranteed by the FDIC to the extent set forth in, and subject to the provisions of, the Rule, and subject to the terms hereof.
2.01.
Acknowledgement of Guarantee
     . The Issuer understands and acknowledges that any Guarantee Payment with respect to a particular issue of Senior Unsecured Debt shall be paid by the FDIC directly to:
2.02.
Guarantee Payments
 
     (a) the Representative with respect to such Senior Unsecured Debt if a Representative has been designated; or
     (b) the registered holder(s) of such Senior Unsecured Debt if no Representative has been designated; or
     (c) any registered holder of such Senior Unsecured Debt who has opted out of being represented by the designated Representative;
in each case, pursuant to the claims procedure set forth in the Rule. In no event shall the FDIC make any Guarantee Payment to the Issuer directly. The FDIC will provide prompt written notice to the Issuer of any Guarantee Payment made by the FDIC with respect to any of the Issuer's Senior Unsecured Debt (the "").
Guarantee Payment Notice
     . In consideration of the FDIC providing the FDIC Guarantee with respect to the Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer, the Issuer hereby irrevocably and unconditionally covenants and agrees:
2.03.
Issuer Make-Whole Payments
     (a) to reimburse the FDIC immediately upon receipt of the Guarantee Payment Notice for all Guarantee Payments set forth in the Guarantee Payment Notice (the "") (without duplication of any amounts actually received by the FDIC as subrogee or assignee under the governing documents of the relevant Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer);
Reimbursement Payment
     (b) beginning as of the date of the Issuer's receipt of the Guarantee Payment Notice, to pay interest on any unpaid Reimbursement Payments until such Reimbursement Payments shall have been paid in full by the Issuer, at an interest rate equal to one percent (1%) per annum above the non-default interest rate payable on the Senior Unsecured Debt with respect to which the relevant Guarantee Payments were made, as calculated in accordance with the documents governing such Senior Unsecured Debt; and
     (c) to reimburse the FDIC for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by it, including costs of collection or other enforcement of the Issuer's payment obligations hereunder. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation and expenses, disbursements and advances of the FDIC's agents, counsel, accountants and experts.
Clauses (a), (b) and (c) above are collectively referred to herein as the "". The indebtedness of the Issuer to the FDIC arising under this constitutes a senior unsecured general obligation of the Issuer, ranking with other senior unsecured indebtedness of the Issuer, including without limitation Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee.
Issuer Make-Whole Payments
Section 2.03
pari passu
     . The Issuer hereby waives any defenses it might otherwise have to its payment obligations under any of the Issuer's Senior Unsecured Debt or under hereof, in each case beginning at such time as the FDIC has made any Guarantee
2.04.
Waiver of Defenses
Section 2.03
 
Payment with respect to such Senior Unsecured Debt and continuing until such time as all Issuer Make-Whole Payments have been received by the FDIC.
     . The Issuer has been duly organized and is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, with the necessary power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business in all material respects as currently conducted, except as has not had, or would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
3.01.
Organization and Authority
     .
3.02.
Authorization, Enforceability
     (a) The Issuer has the power and authority to execute and deliver this Master Agreement and to carry out its obligations hereunder. The execution, delivery and performance by the Issuer of this Master Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Issuer, and no further approval or authorization is required on the part of the Issuer. This Master Agreement is a valid and binding obligation of the Issuer enforceable against the Issuer in accordance with its terms, subject to (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or other similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to creditors' rights generally and (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).
     (b) The execution, delivery and performance by the Issuer of this Master Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and compliance by the Issuer with the provisions hereof, will not (i) violate, conflict with, or result in a breach of any provision of, or constitute a default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default) under, or result in the termination of, or accelerate the performance required by, or result in a right of termination or acceleration of, or result in the creation of, any lien, security interest, charge or encumbrance upon any of the properties or assets of the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer under, any of the terms, conditions or provisions of, as applicable, (X) its organizational documents or (Y) any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, license, lease, agreement or other instrument or obligation to which the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer may be bound, or to which the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer may be subject, or (ii) violate any statute, rule or regulation or any judgment, ruling, order, writ, injunction or decree applicable to the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer or any of their respective properties or assets except, in the case of clauses (i)(Y) and (ii), for those occurrences that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (c) No prior notice to, filing with, exemption or review by, or authorization, consent or approval of, any governmental entity is required to be made or obtained by the Issuer in connection with the execution of this Master Agreement, except for any such notices, filings, exemptions, reviews, authorizations, consents and approvals which have been made or obtained
 
or the failure of which to make or obtain would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     . Since December 31, 2007, the Issuer and each subsidiary of the Issuer has timely filed all Issuer Reports and has paid all fees and assessments due and payable in connection therewith, except, in each case, as would not individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect. As of their respective dates of filing, the Issuer Reports complied in all material respects with all statutes and applicable rules and regulations of all applicable governmental entities. In the case of each such Issuer Report filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, if any, such Issuer Report (a) did not, as of its date, or if amended prior to the date of this Master Agreement, as of the date of such amendment, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (b) complied as to form in all material respects with all applicable requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and (c) no executive officer of the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer has failed in any respect to make the certifications required by him or her under Section 302 or 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. With respect to all other Issuer Reports, the Issuer Reports were complete and accurate in all material respects as of their respective dates.
3.03.
Reports
     The Issuer shall provide reports to the FDIC of the amount of all Senior Unsecured Debt subject to the FDIC Guarantee in accordance with the reporting requirements of the Rule.
4.01.
Reports of Existing and Future Guaranteed Debt
.
     The Issuer covenants and agrees that, for so long as it has outstanding Senior Unsecured Debt that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee, it shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the FDIC (a) monthly reports, in such form as specified by the FDIC, containing information relating to the Issuer's outstanding Senior Unsecured Debt that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee and such other information as may be requested in such form, and (b) such other information that the FDIC may reasonably request, such other information to be delivered within ten (10) Business Days of receipt by the Issuer of any such request.
4.02.
On-going Reporting
.
     The Issuer covenants and agrees that it shall notify the FDIC within one (1) Business Day of any default in the payment of any principal or interest when due, without giving effect to any cure period, with respect to any indebtedness of the Issuer (including debt that is not subject to the FDIC Guarantee), whether such debt is existing as of the date of this Master Agreement or is issued subsequent to the date hereof, if such default would result, or would reasonably be expected to result, in an event of default under any Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee.
4.03.
Notice of Defaults
.
 
     . The governing documents for the issuance of any Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee shall contain each of the provisions set forth in . If a particular issue of Senior Unsecured Debt is evidenced solely by a trade confirmation, the Issuer shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the holder of such debt to execute a written instrument setting forth the holder's agreement to be bound by the provisions set forth in . No document governing the issuance of Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee shall contain any provision that would result in the automatic acceleration of the debt upon a default by the Issuer at any time during which the FDIC Guarantee is in effect or during which Guarantee Payments are being made in accordance with Section 370.12(b)(2) of the Rule.
5.01.
Terms to be included in Future Guaranteed Debt
Annex A
Annex A
     . The Issuer acknowledges and agrees that (a) if it is in breach of any provision of this Master Agreement or (b) if it makes any false or misleading statement or representation in connection with the Issuer's participation in the Program, or makes any statement or representation in bad faith with the intent to influence the actions of the FDIC, the FDIC may take the enforcement actions provided in Section 370.11 of the Rule, including termination of the Issuer's participation in the Program. As set forth in the Rule, any termination of the Issuer's participation in the Program would solely have prospective effect, and would in no event affect the FDIC Guarantee with respect to Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is issued and outstanding prior to the termination of the Issuer's participation in the Program.
5.02.
Breaches; False or Misleading Statements
     . The Issuer covenants and agrees that it shall not amend, modify, or consent to any amendment or modification, or waive any Relevant Provision, without the express written consent of the FDIC.
5.03.
No Modifications
     . The Issuer acknowledges and agrees that if any covenant, stipulation or other provision of this Master Agreement that imposes on the Issuer the obligation to make any payment is at any time void under any provision of applicable law, the Issuer will not make any claim, counterclaim or institute any proceedings against the FDIC or any of its assignees or subrogees for any amount paid by the Issuer at any time, and the Issuer waives unconditionally and absolutely any rights and defenses, legal or equitable, which arise under or in connection with any such provision and which might otherwise be available to it for recovery of any amount due under this Master Agreement.
5.04.
Waiver by the Issuer
     This Master Agreement may be amended, modified and supplemented in any and all respects, but only by a written instrument signed by the parties hereto expressly stating that such instrument is intended to amend, modify or supplement this Master Agreement.
6.01.
Amendment and Modification of this Master Agreement
.
 
     Unless otherwise provided herein, all notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given when mailed, delivered personally, telecopied (which is confirmed) or sent by an overnight courier service, such as FedEx, to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified by such party by like notice):
6.02. .
Notices
     if to the Issuer, to the address appearing on the signature page hereto
     This Master Agreement may be executed in counterparts, which, together, shall be considered one and the same agreement. Copies of executed counterparts transmitted by telecopy or other electronic transmission service shall be considered original, executed counterparts, provided receipt of such counterparts is confirmed.
6.03.
Counterparts
.
     Any term or provision of this Master Agreement that is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable in any situation in any jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining terms and provisions hereof or the validity or enforceability of the offending term or provision in any other situation or in any other jurisdiction. If the final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority declares that any term or provision hereof is invalid, void or unenforceable, the parties agree that the court making such determination shall have the power to reduce the scope, duration or applicability of the term or provision, to delete specific words or phrases, or to replace any invalid, void or unenforceable term or provision with a term or provision that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to expressing the intention of the invalid or unenforceable term or provision.
6.04.
Severability
.
     Federal law of the United States shall control this Master Agreement. To the extent that federal law does not supply a rule of decision, this Master Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York without giving effect to principles of conflicts of law other than Section 5-1401 of the New York General Obligations Law. Nothing in this Master Agreement will require any unlawful action or inaction by either party.
6.05.
Governing Law
.
     Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that any legal action arising under or in connection with this Master Agreement is to be instituted in the United States District Court in and for the District of Columbia or in any United States District Court in the jurisdiction where the Issuer's principal office is located.
6.06.
Venue
.
     Neither this Master Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations hereunder shall be assigned by any of the parties hereto (whether by operation of law or otherwise) without the prior written consent of the other party, and any purported assignment
6.07.
Assignment
.
 
without such consent shall be void. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Master Agreement shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties and their respective successors and assigns.
     . The headings and subheadings of the Table of Contents, Articles and Sections contained in this Master Agreement, except the terms identified for definition in Article I and elsewhere in this Master Agreement, are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Master Agreement or any provision hereof.
6.08.
Headings
     The Issuer shall submit a completed, executed and dated copy of the signature page hereto to the FDIC within five (5) business days of the date of the Issuer's election to continue participating in the debt guarantee component of the Program in accordance with the delivery instructions set forth on the signature page.
6.09.
Delivery Requirement
.
 
     , the Issuer and the FDIC have caused this Master Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
Delivery Instructions
     Please deliver a completed, executed and dated copy of this Signature Page to the FDIC within five (5) business days of the date of the Issuer's election to continue participating in the Debt Guarantee Program. Email is the preferred method of delivery to MasterAgreement@fdic.gov, or you may send it by an overnight courier service such as FedEx to Senior Counsel, Special Issues Unit, E7056, Attention: Master Agreement, 3501 Fairfax Drive, Arlington, Virginia, 22226.
11/24/08
TLGP Master Agreement
 
Annex A
     The following provisions shall be included in the governing documents for the issuance of Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee, in substantially the form presented below, unless otherwise specified. The appropriate name of the governing document(s) shall be inserted in place of the term "Agreement" where it appears in this Annex A.
Acknowledgement of the FDIC's Debt Guarantee Program
     The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that the Issuer has not opted out of the debt guarantee program (the "") established by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("") under its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. As a result, [The italicized portion of the above provision shall be included exactly as written above]
Debt Guarantee Program
FDIC
this debt is guaranteed under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. The details of the FDIC guarantee are provided in the FDIC's regulations, 12 CFR Part 370, and at the FDIC's website, www.fdic.gov/tlgp. The expiration date of the FDIC's guarantee is the earlier of the maturity date of this debt or June 30, 2012.
Representative
     The [insert name of the: trustee, administrative agent, paying agent or other fiduciary or agent to be designated as the duly authorized representative of the debt holders] is designated under this Agreement as the duly authorized representative of the holder[s] for purposes of making claims and taking other permitted or required actions under the Debt Guarantee Program (the ""). Any holder may elect not to be represented by the Representative by providing written notice of such election to the Representative.
Representative
Subrogation
     The FDIC shall be subrogated to all of the rights of the holder[s] and the Representative, if there shall be one, under this Agreement against the Issuer in respect of any amounts paid to the holder[s], or for the benefit of the holder[s], by the FDIC pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program.
Agreement to Execute Assignment upon Guarantee Payment
[If there is a Representative, insert the following:]
     The holder[s] hereby authorize the Representative, at such time as the FDIC shall commence making any guarantee payments to the Representative for the benefit of the holder[s] pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program, to execute an assignment in the form attached to this Agreement as Exhibit [___] [See ] pursuant to which the Representative shall assign to the FDIC its right as Representative to receive any and all payments from the Issuer under this Agreement on behalf of the holder[s]. The Issuer hereby consents and agrees that the FDIC is an acceptable transferee for all or any portion of the indebtedness hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement and upon any such assignment, the
Annex B to Master Agreement
11/24/08
TLGP Master Agreement
 
FDIC shall be deemed a holder under this Agreement for all purposes hereof, and the Issuer hereby agrees to take such reasonable steps as are necessary to comply with any relevant provision of this Agreement as a result of such assignment.
[or, if (i) there is no Representative or (ii) the holder has exercised its right not to be represented by the Representative, insert the following:]
     The holder[s] hereby agree that, at such time as the FDIC shall commence making any guarantee payments to the holder[s] pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program, the holder[s] shall execute an assignment in the form attached to this Agreement as Exhibit [___] [See ] pursuant to which the holder[s] shall assign to the FDIC [its/their] right to receive any and all payments from the Issuer under this Agreement. The Issuer hereby consents and agrees that the FDIC is an acceptable transferee for all or any portion of the indebtedness hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement and upon any such assignment, the FDIC shall be deemed a holder under this Agreement for all purposes thereof, and the Issuer hereby agrees to take such reasonable steps as are necessary to comply with any relevant provision of this Agreement as a result of such assignment.
Annex B to Master Agreement
Surrender of Senior Unsecured Debt Instrument to the FDIC
     If, at any time on or prior to the expiration of the period during which senior unsecured debt of the Issuer is guaranteed by the FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program (the "Effective Period"), payment in full hereunder shall be made pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on the outstanding principal and accrued interest to such date of payment, the holder shall, or the holder shall cause the person or entity in possession to, promptly surrender to the FDIC the security certificate, note or other instrument evidencing such debt, if any.
Notice Obligations to FDIC of Payment Default
     If, at any time prior to the earlier of (a) full satisfaction of the payment obligations hereunder, or (b) expiration of the Effective Period, the Issuer is in default of any payment obligation hereunder, including timely payment of any accrued and unpaid interest, without regard to any cure period, the Representative covenants and agrees that it shall provide written notice to the FDIC within one (1) Business Day of such payment default.
Ranking
     Any indebtedness of the Issuer to the FDIC arising under Section 2.03 of the Master Agreement entered into by the Issuer and the FDIC in connection with the Debt Guarantee Program will constitute a senior unsecured general obligation of the Issuer, ranking with any indebtedness hereunder.
pari passu
No Event of Default during Time of Timely FDIC Guarantee Payments
     There shall not be deemed to be an event of default under this Agreement which would permit or result in the acceleration of amounts due hereunder, if such an event of default is due solely to the failure of the Issuer to make timely payment hereunder, provided that the FDIC is
11/24/08
TLGP Master Agreement
 
making timely guarantee payments with respect to the debt obligations hereunder in accordance with 12 C.F.R Part 370.
No Modifications without FDIC Consent
     Without the express written consent of the FDIC, the parties hereto agree not to amend, modify, supplement or waive any provision in this Agreement that is related to the principal, interest, payment, default or ranking of the indebtedness hereunder or that is required to be included herein pursuant to the Master Agreement executed by the Issuer in connection with the Debt Guarantee Program.
11/24/08
TLGP Master Agreement
 
Annex B
     This Assignment is made pursuant to the terms of Section [  ] of the [  ], dated as of , 20__, as amended from time to time (the ""), between [Representative] (the ""), acting on behalf of the holders of the debt issued under the Agreement who have not opted out of representation by the Representative (the "Holders"), and the [Issuer] (the "") with respect to the debt obligations of the Issuer that are guaranteed under the Debt Guarantee Program. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned thereto in the Agreement.
                    
Agreement
Representative
Issuer
     For value received, the Representative, on behalf of the Holders (the ""), hereby assigns to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the ""), without recourse, all of the Assignor's respective rights, title and interest in and to: (a) the promissory note or other instrument evidencing the debt issued under the Agreement (the ""); (b) the Agreement pursuant to which the Note was issued; and (c) any other instrument or agreement executed by the Issuer regarding obligations of the Issuer under the Note or the Agreement (collectively, the "").
Assignor
FDIC
Note
Assignment
     The Assignor hereby certifies that:
     1. Without the FDIC's prior written consent, the Assignor has not:
     (a) agreed to any material amendment of the Note or the Agreement or to any material deviation from the provisions thereof; or
     (b) accelerated the maturity of the Note.
[If the Assignor has not assigned or transferred any interest in the Note and related documentation, such Assignor must include the following representation.]
Instructions to the Assignor:
     2. The Assignor has not assigned or otherwise transferred any interest in the Note or Agreement;
[If the Assignor has assigned a partial interest in the Note and related documentation, the Assignor must include the following representation.]
Instructions to the Assignor:
     2. The Assignor has assigned part of its rights, title and interest in the Note and the Agreement to __________ pursuant to the __________ agreement, dated as of __________, 20__, between __________, as assignor, and __________, as assignee, an executed copy of which is attached hereto.
     The Assignor acknowledges and agrees that this Assignment is subject to the Agreement and to the following:
 
11/24/08
TLGP Master Agreement
 
     1. In the event the Assignor receives any payment under or related to the Note or the Agreement from a party other than the FDIC (a ""):
Non-FDIC Payment
     (a) after the date of demand for a guarantee payment on the FDIC pursuant to 12 CFR Part 370, but prior to the date of the FDIC's first guarantee payment under the Agreement pursuant to 12 CFR Part 370, the Assignor shall promptly but in no event later than five (5) Business Days after receipt notify the FDIC of the date and the amount of such Non-FDIC Payment and shall apply such payment as payment made by the Issuer, and not as a guarantee payment made by the FDIC, and therefore, the amount of such payment shall be excluded from this Assignment; and
     (b) after the FDIC's first guarantee payment under the Agreement, the Assignor shall forward promptly to the FDIC such Non-FDIC Payment in accordance with the payment instructions provided in writing by the FDIC.
     2. Acceptance by the Assignor of payment pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on behalf of the Holders shall constitute a release by such Holders of any liability of the FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program with respect to such payment.
     The Person who is executing this Assignment on behalf of the Assignor hereby represents and warrants to the FDIC that he/she/it is duly authorized to do so.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Assignor has caused this instrument to be executed and delivered this ___day of __________, 20__.
11/24/08
TLGP Master Agreement
 
Consented to and acknowledged by this ____ day of _________, 20__:
11/24/08
TLGP Master Agreement
 
EXHIBIT B
     This Assignment is made pursuant to the terms of Section 15 of the reverse of KeyCorp's _________ Notes due __________, CUSIP No. __________ (the ""), between Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee (the ""), acting on behalf of the Holder of the Security who have not opted out of representation by the Representative, and KeyCorp (the "") with respect to the debt obligations of the Company that are guaranteed under the Debt Guarantee Program. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned thereto in the Security. Solely for the purpose of this Assignment, "" means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks are required or authorized by law to be closed in the State of New York.
Security
Representative
Company
Business Day
     For value received, the Representative, on behalf of the Holder (the ""), hereby assigns to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the ""), without recourse, all of the Assignor's respective rights, title and interest in and to: (a) the Security; (b) the indenture, dated as of June 10, 1994, as it may be supplemented from time to time (the ""), by and between the Company and the Representative, with respect to the Security; and (c) any other instrument or agreement executed by the Company regarding obligations of the Company under the Security or the Indenture with respect to the Security (collectively, the "").
Assignor
FDIC
Indenture
Assignment
     The Assignor hereby certifies that:
     1. Without the FDIC's prior written consent, the Assignor has not:
          (a) agreed to any material amendment of the Security or to any material deviation from the provisions thereof; or
          (b) accelerated the maturity of the Security.
     If the Assignor has not assigned or transferred any interest in the Security and related documentation, such Assignor must include the following representation.
[Instructions to the Assignor:
]
     2. The Assignor has not assigned or otherwise transferred any interest in the Security;
     If the Assignor has assigned a partial interest in the Security and related documentation, the Assignor must include the following representation.
[Instructions to the Assignor:
]
     2. The Assignor has assigned part of its rights, title and interest in the Security to __________ pursuant to the _____________ agreement, dated as of _____________, 20__, between __________, as assignor, and ___, as assignee, an executed copy of which is attached hereto.
     The Assignor acknowledges and agrees that this Assignment is subject to the Security and the Indenture and to the following:
     1. In the event the Assignor receives any payment under or related to the Security from a party other than the FDIC (a ""):
Non-FDIC Payment
 
          (a) after the date of demand for a guarantee payment on the FDIC pursuant to 12 CFR Part 370, but prior to the date of the FDIC's first guarantee payment under the Security pursuant to 12 CFR Part 370, the Assignor shall promptly but in no event later than five (5) Business Days after receipt notify the FDIC of the date and the amount of such Non-FDIC Payment and shall apply such payment as payment made by the Company, and not as a guarantee payment made by the FDIC, and therefore, the amount of such payment shall be excluded from this Assignment; and
          (b) after the FDIC's first guarantee payment under the Security, the Assignor shall forward promptly to the FDIC such Non-FDIC Payment in accordance with the payment instructions provided in writing by the FDIC.
     2. Acceptance by the Assignor of payment pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on behalf of the Holder shall constitute a release by the Holder of any liability of the FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program with respect to such payment.
     The Person who is executing this Assignment on behalf of the Assignor hereby represents and warrants to the FDIC that he/she/it is duly authorized to do so.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Assignor has caused this instrument to be executed and delivered this ____ day of _____________, 20__.
Consented to and acknowledged by this ____ day of _________, 20__:

Exhibit 4.2(e)
THIS SECURITY IS AN OBLIGATION OF KEYCORP AND IS NOT AND WILL NOT BE A SAVINGS ACCOUNT, A DEPOSIT OR OTHER OBLIGATION OF ANY BANK OR NONBANK SUBSIDIARY OF KEYCORP.
THIS SECURITY IS GUARANTEED BY THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION ("FDIC"), AND THE RIGHTS OF THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN RIGHTS OF THE FDIC, AS AND TO THE EXTENT SET FORTH IN THIS SECURITY, INCLUDING SECTIONS 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 AND 22 ON THE REVERSE HEREOF.
CUSIP NO.
                    
REGISTERED PRINCIPAL AMOUNT $
                    
No. FL-
                    
If the registered owner of this Security (as indicated below) is The Depository Trust Company (the "") or a nominee of the Depository, this Security in a Global Security and the following two legends apply:
Depository
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company to the issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and such certificate issued is registered in the name of CEDE & CO., or such other name as requested by an authorized representative of the Depository, ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL, since the registered owner hereof, CEDE & CO., has an interest herein.
Unless and until this certificate is exchanged in whole or in part for Notes in certificated form, this certificate may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depository to a nominee thereof or by a nominee thereof to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository or by the Depository or any such nominee to a successor of the Depository or a nominee of such successor.
IF APPLICABLE, THE "," "" AND "" (COMPUTED UNDER THE APPROXIMATE METHOD) BELOW WILL BE COMPLETED SOLELY FOR THE PURPOSES OF APPLYING THE FEDERAL INCOME TAX ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT ("") RULES.
TOTAL AMOUNT OF OID
YIELD TO MATURITY
INITIAL ACCRUAL PERIOD OID
OID
 
ISSUE PRICE:
ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE:
STATED MATURITY:
BASE RATE:
INITIAL INTEREST RATE:
INDEX MATURITY:
SPREAD (PLUS OR MINUS):
CALCULATION AGENT: KeyBank National Association
SINKING FUND:
MAXIMUM INTEREST RATE:
MINIMUM INTEREST RATE:
CMT TELERATE PAGE:
INTEREST DETERMINATION DATE:
INTEREST RESET PERIOD:
INTEREST RESET DATES:
INTEREST PAYMENT PERIOD:
INTEREST PAYMENT DATES:
PAYING AGENT:
PLACE OF PAYMENT:
OPTION TO ELECT REPAYMENT:  YES      NO
o
o
REPAYMENT DATE(S):
REPAYMENT PRICE:
OPTIONAL REDEMPTION:  YES      NO
o
o
INITIAL REDEMPTION DATE:
ADDITIONAL REDEMPTION DATES:
INITIAL REDEMPTION PERCENTAGE:
ANNUAL REDEMPTION PERCENTAGE REDUCTION:
MINIMUM DENOMINATIONS:
 $1,000
o
 Other:
o
SPECIFIED CURRENCY: United States Dollars:   YES      NO
o
o
FOREIGN CURRENCY:
OPTION TO RECEIVE PAYMENTS IN SPECIFIED CURRENCY OTHER THAN U.S. DOLLARS:   YES      NO
o
o
EXCHANGE RATE AGENT:
ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS:
DEFEASANCE:  YES      NO
o
o
COVENANT DEFEASANCE:  YES      NO
o
o
OPTIONAL INTEREST RATE RESET:    YES      NO
o
o
OPTIONAL INTEREST RATE RESET DATES:
TOTAL AMOUNT OF OID:
INITIAL ACCRUAL PERIOD OID:
ORIGINAL YIELD TO MATURITY:
OTHER/DIFFERENT PROVISIONS:
 
     KEYCORP, an Ohio corporation (herein referred to as the "," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or registered assigns, the principal sum of ($) on the Stated Maturity shown above (except to the extent redeemed, repaid or renewed prior to the Stated Maturity) and to pay interest thereon at the Initial Interest Rate shown above from the Original Issue Date shown above until the first Interest Reset Date shown above following the Original Issue Date (if the first Interest Reset Date is later than the Original Issue Date) and thereafter at the interest rate determined by reference to the Base Rate shown above, plus or minus the Spread, if any, and/or multiplied by the Spread Multiplier, if any, shown above, determined in accordance with the provisions on the reverse hereof, until the principal hereof is paid or duly made available for payment; , , that the interest rate in effect for the 10 days immediately prior to the Maturity Date (as defined below) of this Security will be that in effect on the 10th day preceding such date. The Company will pay interest on each Interest Payment Date specified above, commencing with the first Interest Payment Date (except as provided in the next succeeding paragraph) next succeeding the Original Issue Date, and on the Stated Maturity, any Redemption Date or Repayment Date (such terms together are hereinafter referred to as a "" with respect to the principal repayable on such date); , , that any payment of principal (or premium, if any) or interest to be made on any Interest Payment Date or on the Maturity Date that is not a Business Day (as defined below) shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day (except that in the case of interest payments on an Interest Payment Date and if the Base Rate specified above is LIBOR or EURIBOR, and such day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, such payment will be made on the next preceding London Business Day or TARGET Business Day, respectively) as described on the reverse hereof.
Company
                    
                    
provided
however
Maturity Date
provided
however
     For purposes of this Security, unless otherwise specified on the face hereof, "" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is not a legal holiday nor a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York City; , , that with respect to foreign currency Notes, such day is also not a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in the Principal Financial Center (as defined below) of the country issuing the Specified Currency (or if the Specified Currency is the euro or if the Base Rate specified is EURIBOR, such day is also a day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System is open); , that with respect to Securities to which LIBOR (as defined below) is an applicable interest rate basis, such day is also a London Business Day; , that, with respect to Section 18 on the reverse hereof and hereto, the definition of "Business Day" therein shall apply.
Business Day
provided
however
provided further
provided further
Exhibit B
     "" means the capital city of the country issuing the Specified Currency, except that with respect to United States dollars, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, euro, New Zealand dollars, South African rand and Swiss francs, the "principal financial center" shall be New York City, Sydney, Toronto, London (solely in the case of the designated LIBOR currency), Wellington, Johannesburg and Zurich, respectively.
Principal Financial Center
     "" means a day on which commercial banks are open for business (including dealings in the designated LIBOR Currency) in London.
London Business Day
     "" means a day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer System is open for business.
TARGET Business Day
 
     The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture (referred to on the reverse hereof), be paid to the person (the "") in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the 15th day (whether or not a Business Day) next preceding such Interest Payment Date (a ""); , , that, if this Security was issued between a Regular Record Date and the initial Interest Payment Date relating to such Regular Record Date, interest for the period beginning on the Original Issue Date and ending on such initial Interest Payment Date shall be paid on the Interest Payment Date following the next succeeding Regular Record Date to the Holder on such Regular Record Date; and that interest payable on the Maturity Date will be payable to the person to whom the principal hereof shall be payable. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for ("") will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a special record date (the "") for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee (referred to on the reverse hereof), notice whereof shall be given to the Holder of this Security not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
Holder
Regular Record Date
provided
however
provided further
Defaulted Interest
Special Record Date
     
The Company and the Trustee acknowledge that the Company has not opted out of the debt guarantee program (the "
Debt Guarantee Program
") established by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("
FDIC
") under its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. As a result,
this debt is guaranteed under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. The details of the FDIC guarantee are provided in the FDIC's regulations, 12 CFR Part 370, and at the FDIC's website, www.fdic.gov/tlgp. The expiration date of the FDIC's guarantee is the earlier of the maturity date of this debt or June 30, 2012.
     The Trustee is hereby designated as the duly authorized representative of the Holder for purposes of making claims and taking other permitted or required actions under the Debt Guarantee Program (the ""). Any Holder may elect not to be represented by the Representative by providing written notice of such election to the Representative.
Representative
     Unless otherwise specified above, all payments in respect of this Security will be made in U.S. dollars regardless of the Specified Currency shown above unless the Holder hereof makes the election described below. If the Specified Currency shown above is other than U.S. dollars, the Exchange Rate Agent (referred to on the reverse hereof) will arrange to convert all payments in respect hereof into U.S. dollars in the manner described on the reverse hereof; , , that the Holder hereof may, if so indicated above, elect to receive all payments in such Specified Currency by delivery of a written request to the corporate trust office of the Trustee in New York City, on or prior to the applicable Regular Record Date or at least 15 days prior to the Stated Maturity, as the case may be. Such request may be in writing with a signature guarantee, mailed or hand delivered, or by cable, telex or other form of facsimile transmission. The Holder hereof may elect to receive payment in such Specified Currency for all principal, premium, if any, and interest payments and need not file a separate election for each payment. Such election will remain in effect until revoked by written notice to the Trustee, but written notice of any such revocation must be received by the Trustee on or prior to the Regular Record Date or at least 15 days prior to the Stated Maturity, as the case may be. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the
provided
however
 
Company determines that the Specified Currency is not available for making payments in respect hereof due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the Company's control, or is no longer used by the government of the country issuing such currency or for the settlement of transactions by public institutions of or within the international banking community, then the Holder hereof may not so elect to receive payments in the Specified Currency and any such outstanding election shall be automatically suspended, until the Company determines that the Specified Currency is again available for making such payments.
     In the event of an official redenomination of the Specified Currency, the obligations of the Company with respect to payments on this Security shall, in all cases, be deemed immediately following such redenomination to provide for payment of that amount of redenominated currency representing the amount of such obligations immediately before such redenomination. In no event shall any adjustment be made to any amount payable hereunder as a result of any change in the value of the Specified Currency shown above relative to any other currency due solely to fluctuations in exchange rates.
     Unless otherwise shown above, payment of interest on this Security (other than on the Maturity Date) will be made by check mailed to the registered address of the Holder hereof; , , that, if (i) the Specified Currency is U.S. dollars and the Holder hereof is the Holder of U.S.$1,000,000 or more in aggregate principal amount of Securities of the series of which this Security is a part (whether having identical or different terms and provisions) or (ii) the Specified Currency is a Foreign Currency, and the Holder has elected to receive payments in such Specified Currency as provided for above, such interest payments will be made by transfer of immediately available funds, but only if appropriate instructions have been received in writing by the Trustee on or prior to the applicable Regular Record Date. Simultaneously with any election by the Holder hereof to receive payments in respect hereof in the Specified Currency (if other than U.S. dollars), such Holder may provide appropriate instructions to the Trustee, and all such payments will be made in immediately available funds to an account maintained by the payee with a bank, but only if such bank has appropriate facilities therefor. Unless otherwise specified above, the principal hereof (and premium, if any) and interest hereon payable on the Maturity Date will be paid in immediately available funds upon surrender of this Security at the corporate trust office of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City and State of New York (or at such other location as may be specified above). The Company will pay any administrative costs imposed by banks in making payments in immediately available funds, but, except as otherwise provided under Additional Amounts above, any tax, assessment or governmental charge imposed upon payments will be borne by the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such payments are made.
provided
however
     REFERENCE IS HEREBY MADE TO THE FURTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS SECURITY SET FORTH ON THE REVERSE HEREOF, WHICH FURTHER PROVISIONS SHALL FOR ALL PURPOSES HAVE THE SAME EFFECT AS IF SET FORTH AT THIS PLACE.
 
     Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its facsimile corporate seal.
[Seal]
 
     Section 1. . This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities (herein called the "") of the Company, issued and to be issued in one or more series under and pursuant to an indenture, dated as of June 10, 1994, as it may be supplemented from time to time (herein called the ""), between the Company and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee (herein called the "," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture with respect to a series of which this Security is a part), to which indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto, reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. The Indenture was amended pursuant to a First Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 14, 2001, copies of which are available from the Company or the Trustee. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, which is unlimited in aggregate principal amount.
General
Securities
Indenture
Trustee
     Section 2. . If the Specified Currency is other than U.S. dollars and the Holder hereof fails to elect payment in such Specified Currency, the amount of U.S. dollar payments to be made in respect hereof will be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent specified on the face hereof or a successor thereto (the "") based on the highest bid quotation in New York City at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the second Business Day preceding the applicable payment date from three recognized foreign exchange dealers selected by the Exchange Rate Agent (one of which may be the Exchange Rate Agent unless the Exchange Rate Agent is the applicable agent to or through which this Security was originally sold) for the purchase by the quoting dealer of the Specified Currency for U.S. dollars for settlement on such payment date in the aggregate amount of the Specified Currency payable to all Holders of Securities denominated in a Foreign Currency scheduled to receive U.S. dollar payments and at which the applicable dealer commits to execute a contract. If three of such bid quotations are not available, payments will be made in the Specified Currency.
Payments
Exchange Rate Agent
     Except as set forth below, if the Specified Currency is other than U.S. dollars and the Specified Currency is not available due to the imposition of exchange controls or to other circumstances beyond the Company's control, or is no longer used by the government of the country issuing such currency or for settlement of transactions by public institutions of or within the international banking community, the Company will be entitled to make payments in U.S. dollars on the basis of the noon buying rate in New York City for cable transfers of such Specified Currency as certified for customs purposes (or, if not so certified as otherwise determined) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the "") as computed by the Exchange Rate Agent for such Specified Currency on the second Business Day prior to such payment or, if the Market Exchange Rate is then not available, on the basis of the most recently available Market Exchange Rate or as otherwise indicated on the face hereof. Any payment made under such circumstances in U.S. dollars where the required payment is in a
Market Exchange Rate
 
Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars will not constitute an Event of Default or Default under the Indenture.
     All determinations referred to above made by the Exchange Rate Agent shall be at its sole discretion and, in the absence of manifest error, shall be conclusive for all purposes and binding on the Holder of this Security.
     All currency exchange costs will be borne by the Holder of this Security through deductions from payments otherwise due to such Holder.
     Section 3. . Unless otherwise set forth on the face hereof, the following provisions of this Section 3 shall apply to the calculation of interest on this Security. If the first Interest Reset Date is later than the Original Issue Date, this Security will bear interest from its Original Issue Date to the first Interest Reset Date (as defined below) at the Initial Interest Rate set forth on the face hereof. Thereafter, the interest rate hereon for each Interest Reset Period (as defined below) will be determined by reference to the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof, as adjusted by the Spread, the Spread Multiplier or other formula, if any, set forth on the face hereof.
Interest Rate Calculations
     As set forth on the face hereof, this Security may also have either or both of the following: (i) a maximum limitation, or ceiling, on the rate at which interest may accrue during any Interest Reset Period (""); and (ii) a minimum limitation, or floor, on the rate at which interest may accrue during any Interest Reset Period (""). In addition to any Maximum Interest Rate that may be set forth on the face hereof, the interest rate on this Security will in no event be higher than the maximum rate permitted by New York law, as the same may be modified by United States law of general application.
Maximum Interest Rate
Minimum Interest Rate
     The rate of interest hereon will be reset daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly, semiannually or annually (each, an "") as set forth on the face hereof. The "" is the first day of each Interest Reset Period and will be, if this Security resets (i) daily, each Business Day; (ii) weekly, the Wednesday of each week (unless the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof is the Treasury Rate); weekly and if the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof is the Treasury Rate, the Tuesday of each week; (iii) monthly, the third Wednesday of each month; (iv) quarterly, the third Wednesday of March, June, September and December of each year; (v) semiannually, the third Wednesday of each of the two months which are six months apart as set forth on the face hereof; and (vi) annually, the third Wednesday of one month of each year set forth on the face hereof. If any Interest Reset Date would otherwise be a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Reset Date shall be the next succeeding Business Day, except that, if the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof is LIBOR or EURIBOR, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Reset Date shall be the immediately preceding London Business Day or TARGET Business Day, respectively.
Interest Reset Period
Interest Reset Date
     The "" is the date as of which the new interest rate is determined for a particular Interest Reset Date, based on the applicable interest rate basis or formula as of that Interest Determination Date. If the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof is the CD Rate, the CMT Rate, the Commercial Paper Rate, the Federal Funds Rate, the CMS Rate or the Prime Rate, the Interest Determination Date pertaining to an Interest Reset Date for this
Interest Determination Date
 
Security will be the second Business Day next preceding such Interest Reset Date. If the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof is the Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate, the Interest Determination Date pertaining to an Interest Reset Date for this Security will be the last working day of the month immediately preceding such Interest Reset Date on which the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco published the Eleventh District Cost of Funds Index (the ""). If the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof is LIBOR or EURIBOR, the Interest Determination Date pertaining to an Interest Reset Date for this Security will be the second London Business Day or TARGET Business Day, respectively, next preceding such Interest Reset Date (unless the designated LIBOR Currency is British pounds sterling, in which case the Interest Determination Date will be the Interest Reset Date). If the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof is the Treasury Rate, the Interest Determination Date pertaining to an Interest Reset Date for this Security will be the day of the week in which such Interest Reset Date falls on which Treasury bills of the same index maturity are auctioned. Treasury bills are usually sold at auction on Monday of each week, unless that day is a legal holiday, in which case the auction is usually held on the following Tuesday, except that such auction may be held on the preceding Friday. If, as the result of a legal holiday, an auction is so held on the preceding Friday, such Friday will be the Interest Determination Date pertaining to the Interest Reset Date occurring in the next week. If an auction falls on any Interest Reset Date, then the Interest Reset Date will instead be the first Business Day immediately following the auction sale.
Eleventh District Cost of Funds Index
     Unless otherwise set forth on the face hereof, the "," where applicable, pertaining to an Interest Determination Date is the earlier of (i) the 10th calendar day after such Interest Determination Date, or if any such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day or (ii) the Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Interest Payment Date or the Stated Maturity, as the case may be.
Calculation Date
     The Company will appoint and enter into an agreement with an agent (a "") to calculate the rate of interest on the Securities of this series which bear interest at a floating rate. Unless otherwise set forth on the face hereof, KeyBank National Association will be the Calculation Agent. At the request of the Holder hereof, the Calculation Agent will provide the interest rate then in effect and, if determined, the interest rate that will become effective on the next succeeding Interest Reset Date.
Calculation Agent
     Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, the interest rate thereon shall not be greater than the Maximum Interest Rate, if any, or less than the Minimum Interest Rate, if any, shown on the face hereof. In addition, the interest rate hereon shall in no event be higher than the maximum rate permitted by New York law, as the same may be modified by United States law of general application.
     Interest will be payable on, unless specifically set forth on the face hereof, if this Security resets (i) daily, weekly or monthly, the third Wednesday of each month or the third Wednesday of March, June, September and December of each year, as set forth on the face hereof unless if the Base Rate is the Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate; (ii) monthly and the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof is the Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate, then the first calendar day of each month as set forth on the face hereof; (iii) quarterly, the third Wednesday of March, June, September and December of each year; (iv) semiannually, the third Wednesday of each of the
 
two months set forth on the face hereof; and (v) annually, the third Wednesday of the month set forth on the face hereof (each, an ""), and in each case, on the Maturity Date or at redemption or repurchase.
Interest Payment Date
     The interest payable hereon on each Interest Payment Date and on the Maturity Date shall be the amount of interest accrued from and including the Original Issue Date or the last Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, as the case may be, to, but excluding, the next succeeding Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be. If the Stated Maturity falls on a day which is not a Business Day, the payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest with respect to the Stated Maturity will be paid on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the Stated Maturity, and no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable as a result of such delayed payment. If an Interest Payment Date other than the Stated Maturity falls on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day and interest will accrue for the period of such postponement (except if the Base Rate specified above is LIBOR or EURIBOR, and such day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Payment Date will be advanced to the immediately preceding London Business Day or TARGET Business Day, respectively), it being understood that, to the extent this sentence is inconsistent with Section 112 of the Indenture, the provisions of this sentence shall apply in lieu of such Section.
     Accrued interest will be calculated by multiplying the principal amount hereof by an accrued interest factor. The accrued interest factor will be computed by adding the interest factor calculated for each day in the interest period or from the date from which accrued interest is being calculated. The interest factor for each such day is computed by dividing the interest rate in effect on that day (1) by 360, if the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof is the CD Rate, Commercial Paper Rate, EURIBOR, Federal Funds Rate, Prime Rate, LIBOR, CMS Rate or Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate (as described below), or (2) by the actual number of days in the year, if the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof is the Treasury Rate or CMT Rate. The interest rate applicable to any day that is an Interest Reset Date is the interest rate as determined, in accordance with the procedures hereinafter set forth, with respect to the Interest Determination Date pertaining to such Interest Reset Date. The interest rate applicable to any other day is the interest rate for the immediately preceding Interest Reset Date (or, if none, the Initial Interest Rate, as set forth on the face hereof).
     All percentages used in or resulting from any calculation with respect hereto will be rounded, if necessary, to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percentage point, with five one-millionths of a percentage point rounded upward (e.g., 7.123455% (or 0.07123455) being rounded to 7.12346% (or 0.0712346) and 7.123454% (or 0.07123454) being rounded to 7.12345% (or 0.0712345)). All currency amounts used in or resulting from such calculation will be rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of a unit (with five one-thousandths of a unit being rounded upward).
     Subject to applicable provisions of law and except as specified herein, with respect to each Interest Determination Date, the rate of interest shall be the rate determined by the Calculation Agent in accordance with the provisions of the applicable heading below.
 
     . If the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof is the CD Rate, this Security will bear interest for each Interest Reset Period at the interest rate calculated with reference to the CD Rate, plus or minus any Spread, and/or multiplied by any Spread Multiplier, and subject to the Minimum Interest Rate and the Maximum Interest Rate, if any, set forth on the face hereof. Unless otherwise set forth on the face hereof, the "" means, with respect to any Interest Determination Date, the rate on such date for negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit having the Index Maturity set forth on the face hereof as published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in "," or any successor publication of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ("") under the heading "" (or any other heading that is the then applicable heading established to describe such Index Maturity).
Determination of CD Rate
CD Rate
Statistical Release H.15(519), Selected Interest Rates
H.15(519)
CDs (secondary market)
     The "" is the period to maturity of the instrument or obligation with respect to which the related interest rate basis or formulae will be calculated.
Index Maturity
     However, if the above rate is not published in H.15(519) by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Calculation Date pertaining to such Interest Determination Date, the CD Rate will be the rate on such Interest Determination Date for negotiable certificates of deposit having the Index Maturity set forth on the face hereof as published in H.15 Daily Update, or such other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying such rate, under the caption "." "" means the daily update of H.15(519), available through the Internet site of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System at , or any successor site or publication. If by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Calculation Date pertaining to such Interest Determination Date, such rate is not yet published in H.15(519), H.15 Daily Update or another recognized electronic source, the Calculation Agent will determine the CD Rate on such Interest Determination Date and it will be the arithmetic mean of the secondary market offered rates as of 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on such Interest Determination Date, for certificates of deposit with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity set forth on the face hereof of three leading nonbank dealers of negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent for negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit of major United States money center banks in the market for negotiable certificates of deposit. However, if fewer than three dealers selected as aforesaid by the Calculation Agent are quoting as set forth above, the CD Rate in effect for the applicable period will be the same as the CD Rate for the immediately preceding Interest Reset Period (or, if there was no such Interest Rate Period, the rate of interest payable on the CD Rate Notes for which such CD Rate is being determined shall be the Initial Interest Rate).
CDs (secondary market)
H.15 Daily Update
http://www.bog.frb.fed.us/releases/h15/update
     . If the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof is the CMS Rate, this Security will bear interest for each Interest Reset Period at the interest rate calculated with reference to the CMS Rate, plus or minus any Spread, and/or multiplied by any Spread Multiplier, and subject to the Minimum Interest Rate and the Maximum Interest Rate, if any, set forth on the face hereof.
Determination of CMS Rate
     Unless otherwise set forth on the face hereof, the CMS Rate for each Interest Reset Period will be the rate on the applicable Interest Determination Date for the designated maturity
 
specified in the pricing supplement that appears on Reuters Screen ISDAFIX1 as of 11:00 a.m., New York city time.
     The following procedures will be followed if the CMS Rate cannot be determined as described above:
     (i) If the above rate is not displayed by 11:00 a.m. New York City time, the rate for such date shall be determined as if the parties had specified "" as the applicable rate. "" means, on any Interest Determination Date, the rate determined on the basis of the mid-market semi-annual swap rate quotations provided by the Reference Banks at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York city time on such Interest Determination Date; and for this purpose, the semi-annual swap rate means the mean of the bid and offered rates for the semi-annual fixed leg, calculated on a 30/360 day count basis, of a fixed-for-floating U.S. Dollar interest rate swap transaction with a term equal to the designated maturity commencing on that date and in a representative amount with an acknowledged dealer of good credit in the swap market, where the floating leg, calculated on an actual/360 day count basis, is equivalent to USD-LIBOR-BBA with the designated maturity specified on the face hereof. The rate for that date will be the arithmetic mean of the quotations, eliminating the highest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the highest) and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest).
USD-CMS-Reference Banks
USD-CMS-Reference Banks
     (ii) If no rate is available as described above, the CMS Rate for the new Interest Reset Period will be the same as for the immediately preceding Interest Reset Period. If there was no such Interest Reset Period, the CMS Rate will be the Initial Interest Rate.
     References herein to "" or "" or "" are to the currency of the United States of America.
U.S. dollars
U.S. $
$
     . If the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof is the CMT Rate, this Security will bear interest for each Interest Reset Period at the interest rate calculated with reference to the CMT Rate, plus or minus any Spread, and/or multiplied by any Spread Multiplier, and subject to the Minimum Interest Rate and Maximum Interest Rate, if any, set forth on the face hereof. Unless otherwise set forth on the face hereof, the "" means, with respect to any Interest Determination Date pertaining thereto:
Determination of CMT Rate
CMT Rate
     (i) If "" is the specified CMT Reuters Page on the face hereof, the CMT Rate on the Interest Determination Date shall be a percentage equal to the yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof as set forth in H.15(519) under the caption "," as such yield is displayed on Reuters (or any successor service) on page FRBCMT (or any other page as may replace such page on such service) ("") for such Interest Determination Date. The Calculation Agent will follow the following procedures if the Reuters Page FRBCMT CMT Rate cannot be determined as described in the preceding sentence: (a) If such rate does not appear on Reuters Page FRBCMT, the CMT Rate on such Interest Determination Date shall be a percentage equal to the yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof and for such Interest Determination Date as set forth in H.15(519) under the caption "
Reuters Page FRBCMT
Treasury Constant Maturities
Reuters Page FRBCMT
Treasury Constant
 
." (b) If such rate does not appear in H.15(519), the CMT Rate on such Interest Determination Date shall be the rate for the period of the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof as may then be published by either the Federal Reserve Board or the United States Department of the Treasury that the Calculation Agent determines to be comparable to the rate that would otherwise have been published in H.15(519). (c) If the Federal Reserve Board or the United States Department of the Treasury does not publish a yield on United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof for such Interest Determination Date, the CMT Rate on such Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent and shall be a yield-to-maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on such Interest Determination Date of three leading primary United States government securities dealers in New York City (which may include the agents or their affiliates) (each, a "") selected by the Calculation Agent from five such Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent and eliminating the highest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the highest) and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest) for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity equal to the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof, a remaining term to maturity no more than one year shorter than such Index Maturity and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in such securities in such market at such time. (d) If fewer than three prices are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on such Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent and shall be a yield-to-maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices as of approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on such Interest Determination Date of three Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent from five such Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent and eliminating the highest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the highest) and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest) for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity greater than the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof, a remaining term to maturity closest to such Index Maturity and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in such securities in such market at such time. If two such United States Treasury securities with an original maturity greater than the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof have remaining terms to maturity equally close to such Index Maturity, the quotes for the Treasury security with the shorter original term to maturity will be used. If fewer than five but more than two such prices are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on such Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent and shall be based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained and neither the highest nor the lowest of such quotations shall be eliminated; provided, however, that if fewer than three such prices are provided as requested, the CMT Rate determined as of such Interest Determination Date shall be the CMT Rate in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
Maturities
Reference Dealer
     (ii) If "" is the specified CMT Reuters Page on the face hereof, the CMT Rate on the Interest Determination Date shall be a percentage equal to the one-week or one-month, as specified on the face hereof, average yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof as set forth in H.15(519) opposite the caption "," as such yield is displayed on Reuters on page FEDCMT (or any other page as may replace such page on such service) ("") for the week or month, as applicable, ended immediately preceding the week or month, as applicable, in which such Interest Determination Date falls.
Reuters Page FEDCMT
Treasury Constant Maturities
Reuters Page FEDCMT
 
The Calculation Agent will follow the following procedures if the Reuters Page FEDCMT CMT Rate cannot be determined as described in the preceding sentence: (a) If such rate does not appear on Reuters Page FEDCMT, the CMT Rate on such Interest Determination Date shall be a percentage equal to the one-week or one-month, as specified on the face hereof, average yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof for the week or month, as applicable, preceding such Interest Determination Date as set forth in H.15(519) opposite the caption "." (b) If such rate does not appear in H.15(519), the CMT Rate on such Interest Determination Date shall be the one-week or one-month, as specified on the face hereof, average yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof as otherwise announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for the week or month, as applicable, ended immediately preceding the week or month, as applicable, in which such Interest Determination Date falls. (c) If the Federal Reserve Bank of New York does not publish a one-week or one-month, as specified on the face hereof, average yield on United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof for the applicable week or month, the CMT Rate on such Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent and shall be a yield-to-maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on such Interest Determination Date of three Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent from five such Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent and eliminating the highest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the highest) and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest) for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity equal to the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof, a remaining term to maturity of no more than one year shorter than such Index Maturity and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in such securities in such market at such time. (d) If fewer than five but more than two such prices are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on such Interest Determination Date shall be the rate on the Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained and neither the highest nor the lowest of such quotation shall be eliminated. (e) If fewer than three prices are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on such Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent and shall be a yield-to-maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices as of approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on such Interest Determination Date of three Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent from five such Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent and eliminating the highest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the highest) and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest) for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity longer than the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof, a remaining term to maturity closest to such Index Maturity and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in such securities in such market at such time. If two United States Treasury securities with an original maturity greater than the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof have remaining terms to maturity equally close to such Index Maturity, the quotes for the Treasury security with the shorter original term to maturity will be used. If fewer than f ive but more than two such prices are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on such CMT Rate interest determination date shall be the rate on the Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained and neither the highest nor lowest of such quotations shall be eliminated; provided, however, that if fewer than
Treasury Constant Maturities
 
three such prices are provided as requested, the CMT Rate determined as of such Interest Determination Date shall be the CMT Rate in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
     . If the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof is the Commercial Paper Rate, this Security will bear interest for each Interest Reset Period at the interest rate calculated with reference to the Commercial Paper Rate, plus or minus any Spread, and/or multiplied by any Spread Multiplier, and subject to the Minimum Interest Rate and Maximum Interest Rate, if any, set forth on the face hereof. Unless otherwise set forth on the face hereof, the "" means, with respect to any Interest Determination Date pertaining thereto, the Money Market Yield (calculated as described below) of the rate on such date for commercial paper having the Index Maturity set forth on the face hereof, as such rate shall be published in H.15(519) prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Calculation Date under the caption "." If the above rate is not published in H.15(519) by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Calculation Date, the Commercial Paper Rate shall be the Money Market Yield of the rate on such Interest Determination Date for commercial paper having the Index Maturity set forth on the face hereof as published in H.15 Daily Update or such other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying such rate, under the caption "." If by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Calculation Date pertaining to such Interest Determination Date such rate is not yet published in H.15(519), H.15 Daily Update or another recognized electronic source, the Commercial Paper Rate on such Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent and shall be the Money Market Yield of the arithmetic mean of the offered rates as of 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on such Interest Determination Date of three leading dealers in commercial paper in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent for commercial paper having the Index Maturity set forth on the face hereof placed for an industrial issuer whose bond rating is "AA," or the equivalent, from a nationally recognized securities rating organization. However, if fewer than three dealers selected as aforesaid by the Calculation Agent are quoting offered rates as mentioned in the previous sentence, the Commercial Paper Rate in effect for the applicable period will be the same as the Commercial Paper Rate for the immediately preceding Interest Reset Period (or, if there was no such Interest Reset Period, the rate of interest payable on the Commercial Paper Rate Notes for which such Commercial Paper Rate is being determined shall be the Initial Interest Rate).
Determination of Commercial Paper Rate
Commercial Paper Rate
Commercial Paper  Nonfinancial
Commercial Paper - - Nonfinancial
     "" shall be a yield (expressed as a percentage) calculated in accordance with the following formula:
Money Market Yield
where "D" refers to the applicable annual rate for commercial paper quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal; and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the Interest Period for which the interest is being calculated.
     . If the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof is the Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate, this Security will bear interest for each Interest Reset Period at the Interest Rate calculated with reference to the Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate, plus or minus any Spread, and/or multiplied by any Spread Multiplier, and subject
Determination of Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate
 
to the Minimum Interest Rate and Maximum Interest Rate, if any, set forth on the face hereof. Unless otherwise set forth on the face hereof, "" means, with respect to any Interest Determination Date, the rate on the applicable Interest Determination Date equal to the monthly weighted average cost of funds for the calendar month preceding the Interest Determination Date as displayed under the caption "" on Reuters Page COFI/ARMS. "" means the display page designated as page COFI/ARMS on Reuters, or any successor service or page, for the purpose of displaying the monthly weighted average cost of funds paid by member institutions of the Eleventh Federal Home Loan Bank District, as of 11:00 a.m., San Francisco time, on such Interest Determination Date.
Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate
11TH DIST COFI
Reuters Page COFI/ARMS
     The following procedures will be followed if the Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate cannot be determined as described above:
     (i) If the above rate is not displayed on the applicable Interest Determination Date, the Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate will be the Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate Index on the applicable Interest Determination Date.
     (ii) If the Federal Home Loan Bank ("") of San Francisco fails to announce the rate for the calendar month next preceding the applicable Interest Determination Date, then the Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate for the new Interest Reset Period will be the same as for the immediately preceding Interest Reset Period. If there was no such Interest Reset Period, the Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate Index will be the Initial Interest Rate.
FHLB
     (iii) The "" will be the monthly weighted average cost of funds paid by member institutions of the Eleventh Federal Home Loan Bank District that the FHLB of San Francisco most recently announced as the cost of funds for the calendar month preceding the applicable Interest Determination Date.
Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate Index
     . If the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof is EURIBOR, this Security will bear interest for each Interest Reset Period at the interest rate calculated with reference to EURIBOR, plus or minus any Spread, and/or multiplied by any Spread Multiplier, and subject to the Minimum Interest Rate and the Maximum Interest Rate, if any, set forth on the face hereof. With respect to Securities indexed to EURIBOR, unless otherwise set forth on the face hereof, the Calculation Agent will determine EURIBOR on each EURIBOR determination date, which is the second TARGET Business Day prior to the Interest Reset Date for each Interest Reset Period.
Determination of EURIBOR
     Unless otherwise specified on the face hereof, EURIBOR means, with respect to any Interest Determination Date, a base rate equal to the interest rate for deposits in euro designated as "" and sponsored jointly by the European Banking Federation and ACI  the Financial Market Association, or any company established by the joint sponsors for purposes of compiling and publishing that rate. EURIBOR will be determined in the following manner:
EURIBOR
     (i) EURIBOR will be the offered rate for deposits in euro having the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof, beginning on the second TARGET Business Day after such Interest
 
Determination Date, as that rate appears on Reuters Page EURIBOR 01 as of 11:00 a.m., Brussels time, on such Interest Determination Date.
     (ii) If the rate described above does not appear on Reuters Page EURIBOR 01, EURIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates, at approximately 11:00 a.m., Brussels time, on such Interest Determination Date, at which deposits of the following kind are offered to prime banks in the euro-zone interbank market by the principal euro-zone office of each of four major banks in that market selected by the Calculation Agent: euro deposits having such EURIBOR Index Maturity, beginning on such EURIBOR Interest Reset Date, and in a representative amount. The Calculation Agent will request that the principal euro-zone office of each of these banks provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two quotations are provided, EURIBOR for such Interest Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of the quotations.
     (iii) If fewer than two quotations are provided as described above, EURIBOR for such Interest Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for loans of the following kind to leading euro-zone banks quoted, at approximately 11:00 a.m., Brussels time on that Interest Determination Date, by three major banks in the euro-zone selected by the Calculation Agent: loans of euro having such EURIBOR Index Maturity, beginning on such EURIBOR Interest Reset Date, and in an amount that is representative of a single transaction in euro in that market at the time.
     If fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described above, EURIBOR for the new interest period will be EURIBOR in effect for the prior interest period. If the initial base rate has been in effect for the prior interest period, however, it will remain in effect for the new interest period.
     "" means the region comprised of member states of the European Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union.
Euro-zone
     . If the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof is the Federal Funds Rate, this Security will bear interest for each Interest Reset Period at the interest rate calculated with reference to the Federal Funds Rate, plus or minus any Spread, and/or multiplied by any Spread Multiplier, and subject to the Minimum Interest Rate and the Maximum Interest
Determination of Federal Funds Rate
     Unless otherwise specified on the face hereof, "" means the rate determined by the Calculation Agent, with respect to any Interest Determination Date, in accordance with the following provisions:
Federal Funds Rate
     (i) If "" is the specified Federal Funds Rate on the face hereof, the Federal Funds Rate as of the applicable Interest Determination Date shall be the rate with respect to such date for United States dollar Federal Funds as published in H.15(519) opposite the caption "," as such rate is displayed on Reuters on page FEDFUNDS1 (or any other page as may replace such page on such service) ("") under the heading "," or, if such rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Calculation Date, the rate with respect to such Interest
Federal Funds (Effective) Rate
Federal Funds (Effective)
Reuters Page FEDFUNDS1
EFFECT
 
Determination Date for United States dollar Federal Funds as published in H.15 Daily Update, or such other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying such rate, under the caption "." If such rate does not appear on Reuters Page FEDFUNDS1 or is not yet published in H.15(519), H.15 Daily Update or another recognized electronic source by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the related Calculation Date, then the Federal Funds Rate with respect to such Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent and will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for the last transaction in overnight United States dollar Federal Funds arranged by three leading brokers of U.S. dollar Federal Funds transactions in New York City (which may include the agents or their affiliates) selected by the Calculation Agent, prior to 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Business Day following such Interest Determination Date; , , that if the brokers so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in this sentence, the Federal Funds Rate determined as of such Interest Determination Date will be the Federal Funds Rate in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
Federal Funds (Effective)
provided
however
     (ii) If "" is the specified Federal Funds Rate on the face hereof, the Federal Funds Rate as of the applicable Interest Determination Date shall be the rate on such date under the heading "" for the relevant Index Maturity and opposite the caption "" as such rate is displayed on Reuters on page 5 (or any other page as may replace such page on such service) (""), or, if such rate does not appear on Reuters Page 5 by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Calculation Date, the Federal Funds Rate for the Interest Determination Date will be the rate for that day displayed on FFPREBON Index page on Bloomberg L.P. (""), which is the Fed Funds Opening Rate as reported by Prebon Yamane (or a successor) on Bloomberg. If such rate does not appear on Reuters Page 5 or is not displayed on FFPREBON Index page on Bloomberg or another recognized electronic source by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the related Calculation Date, then the Federal Funds Rate on such Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent and will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for the last transaction in overnight United States dollar Federal Funds arranged by three leading brokers of United States dollar Federal Funds transactions in New York City (which may include the agents or their affiliates) selected by the Calculation Agent prior to 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on such Interest Determination Date; , , that if the brokers so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in this sentence, the Federal Funds Rate determined as of such Interest Determination Date will be the Federal Funds Rate in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
Federal Funds Open Rate
Federal Funds
Open
Reuters Page 5
Bloomberg
provided
however
     (iii) If "" is the specified Federal Funds Rate on the face hereof, the Federal Funds Rate as of the applicable Interest Determination Date shall be the rate on such date as displayed on the FDTR Index page on Bloomberg. If such rate does not appear on the FDTR Index page on Bloomberg by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Calculation Date, the Federal Funds Rate for such Interest Determination Date will be the rate for that day appearing on Reuters Page USFFTARGET= (or any other page as may replace such page on such service) (""). If such rate does not appear on the FDTR Index page on Bloomberg or is not displayed on Reuters Page USFFTARGET= by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the related Calculation Date, then the Federal Funds Rate on such Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent and will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for the last transaction in overnight United States dollar Federal Funds arranged by three leading brokers of United States dollar Federal Funds transactions in
Federal Funds Target Rate
Reuters Page USFFTARGET=
 
New York City (which may include the agents or their affiliates) selected by the Calculation Agent prior to 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on such Interest Determination Date.
     . If the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof is LIBOR, this Security will bear interest for each Interest Reset Period at the interest rate calculated with reference to LIBOR, plus or minus any Spread, and/or multiplied by any Spread Multiplier, and subject to the Minimum Interest Rate and the Maximum Interest Rate, if any, set forth on the face hereof. With respect to Securities indexed to the London interbank offered rate for U.S. dollar deposits, unless otherwise set forth on the face hereof, "" for each Interest Determination Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent in accordance with the following provisions:
Determination of LIBOR
LIBOR
     LIBOR will mean the rate for deposits in the designated LIBOR Currency (as defined below) of the Index Maturity set forth on the face hereof, as such rate is displayed on Reuters on page LIBOR01 (or any other page as may replace such page on such service for the purposes of displaying the London inter-bank rates of major banks for the designated LIBOR Currency) as of 11:00 a.m., London time, on such Interest Determination Date ("").
Reuters Page LIBOR01
     On any Interest Determination Date on which no rate is displayed on Reuters Page LIBOR01, the Calculation Agent will request the principal London offices of each of four major banks in the London interbank market, as selected by the Calculation Agent, to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in United States dollars for the period of the specified Index Maturity to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such Interest Determination Date and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in such market at such time. If at least two such quotations are provided, LIBOR will be the arithmetic mean of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, LIBOR in respect of such Interest Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of rates quoted by three major banks in the Principal Financial Center selected by the Calculation Agent at approximately 11:00 a.m. in the applicable Principal Financial Center, on such Interest Determination Date for loans in LIBOR Currency to leading European banks, for the period of the specified Index Maturity and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in such market at such time. However, if fewer than three banks as selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting rates as mentioned in the prior sentence, "" for such Interest Reset Period will be the same as LIBOR for the immediately preceding Interest Reset Period (or, if there was no such Interest Reset Period, the rate of interest payable on the LIBOR Notes for which LIBOR is being determined shall be the Initial Interest Rate).
LIBOR
     "" means the currency specified on the face hereof as to which LIBOR shall be calculated or, if no such currency is specified, United States dollars.
LIBOR Currency
     . If the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof is the Prime Rate, this Security will bear interest for each Interest Reset Period at the interest rate calculated with reference to the Prime Rate, plus or minus any Spread, and/or multiplied by any Spread Multiplier, and subject to the Minimum Interest Rate and the Maximum Interest Rate, if any, set forth on the face hereof. Unless otherwise set forth on the face hereof, the "" means, with respect to any Interest Determination Date pertaining thereto, the prime rate or base lending
Determination of Prime Rate
Prime Rate
 
rate on such date as published in H.15(519) by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Calculation Date for that Interest Determination Date, under the caption "" (or any other heading that is the then applicable heading established to describe such Index Maturity). If such rate is not yet published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Calculation Date pertaining to such Interest Determination Date, the Prime Rate will be the rate on such Interest Determination Date as published in H.15 Daily Update, or such other recognized source used for the purpose of displaying such rate, under the caption "."
Bank Prime Loan
Bank Prime Loan
     If the rate is not published in H.15(519), H.15 Daily Update or another recognized electronic source by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Calculation Date, then the Calculation Agent will determine the Prime Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the rates of interest publicly announced by each bank named on the Reuters 3000 Xtra Service (or any successor service) screen designated as "" (such term to include such other page as may replace the USPRIME1 page on that service for the purpose of displaying Prime Rates or base lending rates of major U.S. banks) as that bank's Prime Rate or base lending rate as in effect for such Interest Determination Date. If at least one rate but fewer than four such rates appear on the USPRIME1 for such Interest Determination Date, the Prime Rate shall be the arithmetic mean of the Prime Rates or base lending rates quoted (on the basis of the actual number of days in the year divided by 360) as of the close of business on such Interest Determination Date by three major money center banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent. If the banks selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned above, the Prime Rate will remain the Prime Rate then in effect on the Interest Determination Date.
USPRIME1
     . If the Base Rate set forth on the face hereof is the Treasury Rate, this Security will bear interest for each Interest Reset Period at the interest rate calculated with reference to the Treasury Rate, plus or minus any Spread, and/or multiplied by any Spread Multiplier, and subject to the Minimum Interest Rate and the Maximum Interest Rate, if any, set forth on the face hereof. Unless otherwise set forth on the face hereof, the "" means, with respect to any Interest Determination Date pertaining thereto, the rate from the auction of direct obligations of the United States ("") held on such Interest Determination Date having the Index Maturity set forth on the face hereof under the caption "" on the display on Reuters on page USAUCTION10 (or any other page as may replace such page on such service) or page USAUCTION11 (or any other page as may replace such page on such service) by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Calculation Date for such Interest Determination Date. However, if not yet published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Calculation Date pertaining to such Interest Determination Date, the Treasury Rate will be the Bond Equivalent Yield (as defined below) of the auction rate of such Treasury bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, or such recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying such rate, under the caption "." If the rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Calculation Date and cannot be determined as described in the immediately preceding sentence, the Treasury Rate will be the Bond Equivalent Yield of the auction rate of such Treasury bills as otherwise announced by the United States Department of the Treasury. In the event that the results of the most recent auction of Treasury bills having the Index Maturity set forth on the face hereof are not published or announced as described above by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on such Calculation Date, or if no auction is held on the Interest Determination Date, then the Treasury Rate will be the Bond Equivalent Yield on such Interest Determination Date of Treasury bills
Determination of Treasury Rate
Treasury Rate
Treasury bills
INVEST RATE
U.S. Government Securities/ Treasury Bills/Auction High
 
having the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof as published in H.15(519) under the caption "" or, if not published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the related Calculation Date, the rate on such Interest Determination Date of such Treasury bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, or such other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying such rate, under the caption "." If such rate is not published in H.15(519), H.15 Daily Update or another recognized electronic source by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the related Calculation Date, then the Calculation Agent will determine the Treasury Rate to be the Bond Equivalent Yield of the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid rates, as of approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on such Interest Determination Date, of three leading primary United States government securities dealers in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent for the issue of Treasury bills with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity set forth on the face hereof. However, if the dealers selected as aforesaid by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in the prior sentence, the Treasury Rate for the applicable period will remain the Treasury Rate then in effect on that Interest Determination Date (or, if there was no such Interest Determination Date, the rate of interest payable on the Treasury Rate Notes for which the Treasury Rate is being determined shall be the Initial Interest Rate).
U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills (Secondary Market)
U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills (Secondary Market)
     "" means a yield (expressed as a percentage) calculated in accordance with the following formula:
Bond Equivalent Yield
where "D" refers to the applicable per annum rate for Treasury bills quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal, "N" refers to 365 or 366, as the case may be, and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the applicable Interest Reset Period.
     Section 4. . If so specified on the face hereof, the Company may at its option redeem this Security in whole or from time to time in part in increments of $1,000 (provided that any remaining principal amount of this Security shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination of such Security) on or after the date designated as the Initial Redemption Date on the face hereof at 100% of the unpaid principal amount hereof or the portion thereof redeemed (or, if this Security is a Discount Security, such lesser amount as is provided for below) multiplied by the Initial Redemption Percentage specified on the face hereof, together with accrued interest to the Redemption Date. Such Initial Redemption Percentage shall decline at each anniversary of the Initial Redemption Date by an amount equal to the Annual Redemption Percentage Reduction specified on the face hereof until the redemption price is 100% of such amount. The Company may exercise such option by causing the Trustee to mail a notice of such redemption at least 30 but not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date. In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities for the unredeemed portion hereof shall be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof. If less than all the Securities of the series, of which this Security is a part, with differing issue dates, interest rates and stated maturities are to be redeemed, the Company in its sole discretion shall select the particular Securities to be redeemed and shall notify the Trustee in writing thereof at least 45 days prior to the relevant redemption date. If less than all of the Securities with like tenor and
Redemption
 
terms to this Security are to be redeemed, the Securities to be redeemed shall be selected by the Trustee by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate.
     Section 5. . If so specified on the face hereof, this Security shall be repayable prior to the Stated Maturity at the option of the Holder on each applicable Repayment Date shown on the face hereof at the Repayment Price shown on the face hereof, together with accrued interest to the Repayment Date. In order for this Security to be repaid, the Paying Agent must receive at least 30 but not more than 45 days prior to a Repayment Date this Security with the form attached hereto entitled "" duly completed. Except as set forth in Section 308 of the Indenture, any tender of this Security for repayment shall be irrevocable. The repayment option may be exercised by the Holder of this Security in whole or in part in increments of $1,000 (provided that any remaining principal amount of this Security shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination hereof). Upon any partial repayment, this Security shall be canceled and a new Security or Securities for the remaining principal amount hereof shall be issued in the name of the Holder of this Security.
Repayment
Option to Elect Repayment
     Section 6. . Unless otherwise specified on the face hereof, this Security will not be subject to any sinking fund.
Sinking Fund
     Section 7. . If this Security (such Security being referred to as an "") (a) has been issued at an Issue Price lower, by more than a amount (as determined under United States federal income tax rules applicable to original issue discount instruments), than its "stated redemption price at Maturity" (as defined below) and (b) would be considered an original issue discount security for United States federal income tax purposes, then the amount payable on this Security in the event of redemption by the Company, repayment at the option of the Holder or acceleration of the maturity hereof, in lieu of the principal amount due at the Stated Maturity hereof, shall be the Amortized Face Amount (as defined below) of this Security as of the date of such redemption, repayment or acceleration. The "" of this Security shall be the amount equal to the sum of (a) the Issue Price (as set forth on the face hereof) plus (b) the aggregate of the portions of the original issue discount (the excess of the amounts considered as part of the "stated redemption price at maturity" of this Security within the meaning of Section 1273(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), whether denominated as principal or interest, over the Issue Price of this Security) which shall theretofore have accrued pursuant to Section 1272 of the Code (without regard to Section 1272(a)(7) of the Code) from the date of issue of this Security to the date of determination, minus (c) any amount considered as part of the "stated redemption price at maturity" of this Security which has been paid on this Security from the date of issue to the date of determination.
Discount Securities
Original Issue Discount Security
de minimis
Amortized Face Amount
Code
     Section 8. . The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series. Such amendment may be effected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a 66-2/3% in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of not less than 66-2/3% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, on behalf of the Holders of all Outstanding Securities, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture.
Modifications and Waivers
 
Provisions in the Indenture also permit the Holders of not less than 66-2/3% in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities of any series to waive on behalf of all of the Holders of all the Securities of such series and any related coupons certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver shall be conclusive and binding upon the Holder of this Security and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
     Section 9. . The Securities are unsecured and rank with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company.
Ranking; Obligations of the Company Absolute
pari passu
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the Specified Currency herein prescribed.
     Section 10. . The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Security, unless otherwise specified on the face hereof.
Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
     Section 11. . Unless otherwise provided on the face hereof, this Security is issuable only in registered form without coupons issued in denominations of $1,000 or any amount in excess thereof which is an integral multiple of $1,000. If this Security is denominated in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars or is an Original Issue Discount Security, this Security shall be issuable in the denominations set forth on the face hereof.
Authorized Denominations
     Section 12. . As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations herein and therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at a Place of Payment for the series of Securities of which this Security is a part, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
Registration of Transfer
     If the registered owner of this Security is the Depository (such a Security being referred to herein as a "") and (i) the Depository is at any time unwilling or unable to continue as depository and a successor depository is not appointed by the Company within 90 days following notice to the Company or (ii) an Event of Default occurs, the Company will issue Securities in certificated form in exchange for this Global Security. In addition, the Company may at any time determine not to have Securities represented by this Global Security and, in such event, will issue Securities in certificated form in exchange in whole for this Global Security representing such Security. In any such instance, an owner of a beneficial interest in a Global Security will be entitled to physical delivery in certificated form of Securities equal in principal amount to such beneficial interest and to have such Securities registered in its name. Securities
Global Security
 
so issued in certificated form will be issued in denominations of $1,000 (or such other denomination as shall be specified by the Company) or any amount in excess thereof which is an integral multiple of $1,000 and will be issued in registered form only, without coupons.
     No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
     Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Holder as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     Section 13. . If an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of the series of which this Security forms a part shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal of this Security may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
Events of Default
     Section 14. . Sections 501 and 502 of the Indenture are hereby amended with respect to the Securities of this series to the extent necessary to comply with Section 5.01 and Annex A of the Master Agreement, executed by the Company and delivered to the FDIC on December 8, 2008, as the same may be amended from time to time (the ""), by and between the Company and the FDIC, attached hereto as . Subject to the immediately preceding sentence and Section 20 of the reverse of this Security, if an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
Remedies
Master Agreement
Exhibit A
     Section 15. . The FDIC shall be subrogated to all of the rights of the Holder and the Representative under this Security and the Indenture against the Company in respect of any amounts paid to the Holder, or for the benefit of the Holder, by the FDIC pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program.
Subrogation
     Section 16. . The Holder hereby authorizes the Representative, at such time as the FDIC shall commence making any guarantee payments to the Representative for the benefit of the Holder pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program, to execute an assignment in the form attached to this Security as pursuant to which the Representative shall assign to the FDIC its right as Representative to receive any and all payments from the Company under this Security on behalf of the Holder. The Company hereby consents and agrees that the FDIC is an acceptable transferee for all or any portion of the indebtedness hereunder for all purposes of this Security and upon any such assignment, the FDIC shall be deemed the Holder of this Security for all purposes hereof, and the Company hereby agrees to take such reasonable steps as are necessary to comply with any relevant provision of this Security and the Indenture as a result of such assignment.
Agreement to Execute Assignment upon Guarantee Payment
Exhibit B
 
     Section 305 of the Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Securities of this series to the extent necessary to permit the Holder, the Representative and the Company to comply with this Section 16.
     Section 17. . If, at any time on or prior to the expiration of the period during which senior unsecured debt of the Company is guaranteed by the FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program (the ""), payment in full hereunder shall be made pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on the outstanding principal and accrued interest to such date of payment, the Holder shall, or the Holder shall cause the person or entity in possession to, promptly surrender to the FDIC this Security.
Surrender of Senior Unsecured Debt Instrument to the FDIC
Effective Period
     Section 18. . If, at any time prior to the earlier of (a) full satisfaction of the payment obligations hereunder, or (b) expiration of the Effective Period, the Company is in default of any payment obligation hereunder, including timely payment of any accrued and unpaid interest, without regard to any cure period, the Representative covenants and agrees that it shall provide written notice to the FDIC within one (1) Business Day of such payment default. Solely for the purpose of this Section 18, "" means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks are required or authorized by law to be closed in the State of New York.
Notice Obligations to FDIC of Payment Default
Business Day
     Section 19. . Any indebtedness of the Company to the FDIC arising under Section 2.03 of the Master Agreement will constitute a senior unsecured general obligation of the Company, ranking with any indebtedness hereunder.
Ranking
pari passu
     Section 20. . There shall not be deemed to be an Event of Default under this Security or the Indenture which would permit or result in the acceleration of amounts due hereunder, if such an Event of Default is due solely to the failure of the Company to make timely payment hereunder, provided that the FDIC is making timely guarantee payments with respect to the Securities of this series in accordance with 12 C.F.R Part 370.
No Event of Default during Time of Timely FDIC Guarantee Payments
     Section 21. . Without the express written consent of the FDIC, the Company and the Trustee agree not to amend, modify, supplement or waive any provision in this Security or the Indenture that is related to the principal, interest, payment, default or ranking of the indebtedness hereunder or that is required to be included herein pursuant to the Master Agreement.
No Modifications without FDIC Consent
     Section 22. . Upon an uncured failure by the Company to make a timely payment of principal or interest on this Security (a ""), the Representative, on behalf of all holders of such Security that are represented by the Representative, shall submit to the FDIC a demand for payment by the FDIC of such unpaid principal and interest (i) in the case of any payment due by the Company prior to the final maturity or redemption of such Security, on the earlier of the date that the applicable cure period ends (or if such date is not a Business Day, the immediately succeeding Business Day) and 60 days following such Payment Default and (ii) in the case of any payment due by the Company on the final maturity date or on a redemption date for such Security, on such final maturity date or redemption date (or if such date is not a Business Day, the
Demand Obligations to FDIC upon the Company's Failure to Pay
Payment Default
 
immediately succeeding Business Day). Such demand shall be accompanied by a proof of claim, which shall include evidence, to the extent not previously provided in the Master Agreement, in form and content satisfactory to the FDIC, of: (A) the Representative's financial and organizational capacity to act as Representative; (B) the Representative's exclusive authority to act on behalf of the holder and its fiduciary responsibility to the holder when acting as such, as established by the terms of this Security and the Indenture; (C) the occurrence of a payment default; and (D) the authority to make an assignment of the holder's right, title, and interest in this Security to the FDIC and to effect the transfer to the FDIC of the holder's claim in any insolvency proceeding. Such assignment shall include the right of the FDIC to receive any and all distributions on this Security from the proceeds of the receivership or bankruptcy estate. Any demand under this paragraph shall be made in writing and directed to the Director, Division of Resolution and Receiverships, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Washington, D.C., and shall include all supporting evidences as provided in this paragraph, and shall certify to the accuracy thereof.
     Section 23. . All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture and are not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Defined Terms
     Section 24. . This Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Indenture and this Security, on the one hand, and the rules and regulations of the Debt Guarantee Program or the Master Agreement (and any amendment thereto), on the other hand, such rules and regulations and/or Master Agreement shall control.
Governing Law; Conflicts
 
     The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
     TEN COM  as tenants in common
     TEN ENT  as tenants by the entireties
     JT TEN  as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common
Under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act
 
(State)
     Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
 
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER      IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE:
 
the within Security of KEYCORP and all rights thereunder and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint:
     
 
Attorney to transfer the said Security on the books of the within-named Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
SIGNATURE GUARANTEED:
                                               
                             
 
          The undersigned hereby irrevocably requests and instructs the Company to repay this Security (or the portion thereof specified below), pursuant to its terms, on the "" first occurring after the date of receipt of the within Security as specified below, at a Repayment Price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof, together with interest thereon accrued to the Repayment Date, to the undersigned at:
Repayment Date
          .
For this Option to Elect Repayment to be effective, this Security with the Option to Elect Repayment duly completed must be received at least 30 but not more than 45 days prior to the Repayment Date (or, if such Repayment Date is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day) by the Company at its office or agency, which will be located initially at the office of the Trustee at Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, 60 Wall Street, New York, New York 10005, Attention: Corporate Trust & Agency Services
          If less than the entire principal amount of the within Security is to be repaid, specify the portion thereof (which shall be $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) which is to be repaid: $.
                    
          If less than the entire principal amount of the within Security is to be repaid, specify the denomination(s) of the Security(ies) to be issued for the unpaid amount ($1,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000; that any remaining principal amount of this Security shall not be less than the minimum denomination of such Security): $.
provided
                    
 
EXHIBIT A
11/24/08
TLGP Master Agreement
 
11/24/08
TLGP Master Agreement
 
     (this "") is being entered into as of the date set forth on the signature page hereto by and between THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATIONa corporation organized under the laws of the United States of America and having its principal office in Washington, D.C. (the ""), and the entity whose name appears on the signature page hereto (the "").
THIS MASTER AGREEMENT
Master Agreement
,
FDIC
Issuer
     , on November 21, 2008, the FDIC issued its Final Rule, 12 C.F.R. Part 370 (as may be amended from time to time, the ""), establishing the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the ""); and
WHEREAS
Rule
Program
     , pursuant to the Rule, the FDIC will guarantee the payment of certain newly-issued "senior unsecured debt" (as defined in the Rule, hereinafter "") issued by an "eligible entity" (as defined in the Rule); and
WHEREAS
Senior Unsecured Debt
     , the Issuer is an eligible entity for purposes of the Rule and has elected to participate in the debt guarantee component of the Program.
WHEREAS
     As used in this Master Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
1.01.
Certain Defined Terms
.
          "" means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks are required or authorized by law to be closed in the State of New York.
Business Day
          "" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the introductory paragraph to this Master Agreement.
FDIC
          "" means the guarantee of payment by the FDIC of the Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer in accordance with the terms of the Program.
FDIC Guarantee
          "" means any payment made by the FDIC under the Program with respect to Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer.
Guarantee Payment
          "" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Guarantee Payment Notice
Section 2.02
          "" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the introductory paragraph to this Master Agreement.
Issuer
          "" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Issuer Make-Whole Payments
Section 2.03
TLGP 11/24/08
Master Agreement
 
          "" means reports, registrations, documents, filings, statements and submissions, together with any amendments thereto, that the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer is required to file with any governmental entity.
Issuer Reports
          "" means this Master Agreement, together with all Annexes and amendments hereto.
Master Agreement
          "" means a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations or financial condition of the Issuer and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Effect
          "" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Recitals.
Program
          "" has the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Reimbursement Payment
Section 2.03
          "" means any provision that is related to the principal, interest, payment, default or ranking of the Senior Unsecured Debt, any provision contained in Annex A or any other provision the amendment of which would require the consent of any or all of the holders of such debt.
Relevant Provision
          "" means the trustee, administrative agent, paying agent or other fiduciary or agent designated as the "Representative" under the governing documents for any Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer subject to the FDIC Guarantee for purposes of submitting claims or taking other actions under the Program.
Representative
          "" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Recitals.
Rule
          "" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Recitals.
Senior Unsecured Debt
     Words in the singular shall be held to include the plural and vice versa and words of one gender shall be held to include the other gender as the context requires, the terms "hereof", "herein" and "herewith" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Master Agreement and not to any particular provision of this Master Agreement, and Article, Section and paragraph references are to the Articles, Sections and paragraphs of this Master Agreement unless otherwise specified, and the word "including" and words of similar import when used in this Master Agreement shall mean "including, without limitation", unless otherwise specified.
1.02.
Terms Generally
.
     . The FDIC hereby acknowledges that the Issuer has elected to participate in the debt guarantee component of the Program and that, as a result, the Issuer's Senior Unsecured Debt is guaranteed by the FDIC to the extent set forth in, and subject to the provisions of, the Rule, and subject to the terms hereof.
2.01.
Acknowledgement of Guarantee
     . The Issuer understands and acknowledges that any Guarantee Payment with respect to a particular issue of Senior Unsecured Debt shall be paid by the FDIC directly to:
2.02.
Guarantee Payments
 
     (a) the Representative with respect to such Senior Unsecured Debt if a Representative has been designated; or
     (b) the registered holder(s) of such Senior Unsecured Debt if no Representative has been designated; or
     (c) any registered holder of such Senior Unsecured Debt who has opted out of being represented by the designated Representative;
in each case, pursuant to the claims procedure set forth in the Rule. In no event shall the FDIC make any Guarantee Payment to the Issuer directly. The FDIC will provide prompt written notice to the Issuer of any Guarantee Payment made by the FDIC with respect to any of the Issuer's Senior Unsecured Debt (the "").
Guarantee Payment Notice
     . In consideration of the FDIC providing the FDIC Guarantee with respect to the Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer, the Issuer hereby irrevocably and unconditionally covenants and agrees:
2.03.
Issuer Make-Whole Payments
     (a) to reimburse the FDIC immediately upon receipt of the Guarantee Payment Notice for all Guarantee Payments set forth in the Guarantee Payment Notice (the "") (without duplication of any amounts actually received by the FDIC as subrogee or assignee under the governing documents of the relevant Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer);
Reimbursement Payment
     (b) beginning as of the date of the Issuer's receipt of the Guarantee Payment Notice, to pay interest on any unpaid Reimbursement Payments until such Reimbursement Payments shall have been paid in full by the Issuer, at an interest rate equal to one percent (1%) per annum above the non-default interest rate payable on the Senior Unsecured Debt with respect to which the relevant Guarantee Payments were made, as calculated in accordance with the documents governing such Senior Unsecured Debt; and
     (c) to reimburse the FDIC for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by it, including costs of collection or other enforcement of the Issuer's payment obligations hereunder. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation and expenses, disbursements and advances of the FDIC's agents, counsel, accountants and experts.
Clauses (a), (b) and (c) above are collectively referred to herein as the "". The indebtedness of the Issuer to the FDIC arising under this constitutes a senior unsecured general obligation of the Issuer, ranking with other senior unsecured indebtedness of the Issuer, including without limitation Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee.
Issuer Make-Whole Payments
Section 2.03
pari passu
     . The Issuer hereby waives any defenses it might otherwise have to its payment obligations under any of the Issuer's Senior Unsecured Debt or under hereof, in each case beginning at such time as the FDIC has made any Guarantee
2.04.
Waiver of Defenses
Section 2.03
 
Payment with respect to such Senior Unsecured Debt and continuing until such time as all Issuer Make-Whole Payments have been received by the FDIC.
     . The Issuer has been duly organized and is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, with the necessary power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business in all material respects as currently conducted, except as has not had, or would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
3.01.
Organization and Authority
     .
3.02.
Authorization, Enforceability
     (a) The Issuer has the power and authority to execute and deliver this Master Agreement and to carry out its obligations hereunder. The execution, delivery and performance by the Issuer of this Master Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Issuer, and no further approval or authorization is required on the part of the Issuer. This Master Agreement is a valid and binding obligation of the Issuer enforceable against the Issuer in accordance with its terms, subject to (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or other similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to creditors' rights generally and (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).
     (b) The execution, delivery and performance by the Issuer of this Master Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and compliance by the Issuer with the provisions hereof, will not (i) violate, conflict with, or result in a breach of any provision of, or constitute a default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default) under, or result in the termination of, or accelerate the performance required by, or result in a right of termination or acceleration of, or result in the creation of, any lien, security interest, charge or encumbrance upon any of the properties or assets of the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer under, any of the terms, conditions or provisions of, as applicable, (X) its organizational documents or (Y) any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, license, lease, agreement or other instrument or obligation to which the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer may be bound, or to which the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer may be subject, or (ii) violate any statute, rule or regulation or any judgment, ruling, order, writ, injunction or decree applicable to the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer or any of their respective properties or assets except, in the case of clauses (i)(Y) and (ii), for those occurrences that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (c) No prior notice to, filing with, exemption or review by, or authorization, consent or approval of, any governmental entity is required to be made or obtained by the Issuer in connection with the execution of this Master Agreement, except for any such notices, filings, exemptions, reviews, authorizations, consents and approvals which have been made or obtained
 
or the failure of which to make or obtain would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     . Since December 31, 2007, the Issuer and each subsidiary of the Issuer has timely filed all Issuer Reports and has paid all fees and assessments due and payable in connection therewith, except, in each case, as would not individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect. As of their respective dates of filing, the Issuer Reports complied in all material respects with all statutes and applicable rules and regulations of all applicable governmental entities. In the case of each such Issuer Report filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, if any, such Issuer Report (a) did not, as of its date, or if amended prior to the date of this Master Agreement, as of the date of such amendment, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (b) complied as to form in all material respects with all applicable requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and (c) no executive officer of the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer has failed in any respect to make the certifications required by him or her under Section 302 or 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. With respect to all other Issuer Reports, the Issuer Reports were complete and accurate in all material respects as of their respective dates.
3.03.
Reports
     The Issuer shall provide reports to the FDIC of the amount of all Senior Unsecured Debt subject to the FDIC Guarantee in accordance with the reporting requirements of the Rule.
4.01.
Reports of Existing and Future Guaranteed Debt
.
     The Issuer covenants and agrees that, for so long as it has outstanding Senior Unsecured Debt that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee, it shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the FDIC (a) monthly reports, in such form as specified by the FDIC, containing information relating to the Issuer's outstanding Senior Unsecured Debt that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee and such other information as may be requested in such form, and (b) such other information that the FDIC may reasonably request, such other information to be delivered within ten (10) Business Days of receipt by the Issuer of any such request.
4.02.
On-going Reporting
.
     The Issuer covenants and agrees that it shall notify the FDIC within one (1) Business Day of any default in the payment of any principal or interest when due, without giving effect to any cure period, with respect to any indebtedness of the Issuer (including debt that is not subject to the FDIC Guarantee), whether such debt is existing as of the date of this Master Agreement or is issued subsequent to the date hereof, if such default would result, or would reasonably be expected to result, in an event of default under any Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee.
4.03.
Notice of Defaults
.
 
     . The governing documents for the issuance of any Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee shall contain each of the provisions set forth in . If a particular issue of Senior Unsecured Debt is evidenced solely by a trade confirmation, the Issuer shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the holder of such debt to execute a written instrument setting forth the holder's agreement to be bound by the provisions set forth in . No document governing the issuance of Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee shall contain any provision that would result in the automatic acceleration of the debt upon a default by the Issuer at any time during which the FDIC Guarantee is in effect or during which Guarantee Payments are being made in accordance with Section 370.12(b)(2) of the Rule.
5.01.
Terms to be included in Future Guaranteed Debt
Annex A
Annex A
     . The Issuer acknowledges and agrees that (a) if it is in breach of any provision of this Master Agreement or (b) if it makes any false or misleading statement or representation in connection with the Issuer's participation in the Program, or makes any statement or representation in bad faith with the intent to influence the actions of the FDIC, the FDIC may take the enforcement actions provided in Section 370.11 of the Rule, including termination of the Issuer's participation in the Program. As set forth in the Rule, any termination of the Issuer's participation in the Program would solely have prospective effect, and would in no event affect the FDIC Guarantee with respect to Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is issued and outstanding prior to the termination of the Issuer's participation in the Program.
5.02.
Breaches; False or Misleading Statements
     . The Issuer covenants and agrees that it shall not amend, modify, or consent to any amendment or modification, or waive any Relevant Provision, without the express written consent of the FDIC.
5.03.
No Modifications
     . The Issuer acknowledges and agrees that if any covenant, stipulation or other provision of this Master Agreement that imposes on the Issuer the obligation to make any payment is at any time void under any provision of applicable law, the Issuer will not make any claim, counterclaim or institute any proceedings against the FDIC or any of its assignees or subrogees for any amount paid by the Issuer at any time, and the Issuer waives unconditionally and absolutely any rights and defenses, legal or equitable, which arise under or in connection with any such provision and which might otherwise be available to it for recovery of any amount due under this Master Agreement.
5.04.
Waiver by the Issuer
     This Master Agreement may be amended, modified and supplemented in any and all respects, but only by a written instrument signed by the parties hereto expressly stating that such instrument is intended to amend, modify or supplement this Master Agreement.
6.01.
Amendment and Modification of this Master Agreement
.
 
     Unless otherwise provided herein, all notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given when mailed, delivered personally, telecopied (which is confirmed) or sent by an overnight courier service, such as FedEx, to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified by such party by like notice):
6.02. .
Notices
     if to the Issuer, to the address appearing on the signature page hereto
     This Master Agreement may be executed in counterparts, which, together, shall be considered one and the same agreement. Copies of executed counterparts transmitted by telecopy or other electronic transmission service shall be considered original, executed counterparts, provided receipt of such counterparts is confirmed.
6.03.
Counterparts
.
     Any term or provision of this Master Agreement that is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable in any situation in any jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining terms and provisions hereof or the validity or enforceability of the offending term or provision in any other situation or in any other jurisdiction. If the final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority declares that any term or provision hereof is invalid, void or unenforceable, the parties agree that the court making such determination shall have the power to reduce the scope, duration or applicability of the term or provision, to delete specific words or phrases, or to replace any invalid, void or unenforceable term or provision with a term or provision that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to expressing the intention of the invalid or unenforceable term or provision.
6.04.
Severability
.
     Federal law of the United States shall control this Master Agreement. To the extent that federal law does not supply a rule of decision, this Master Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York without giving effect to principles of conflicts of law other than Section 5-1401 of the New York General Obligations Law. Nothing in this Master Agreement will require any unlawful action or inaction by either party.
6.05.
Governing Law
.
     Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that any legal action arising under or in connection with this Master Agreement is to be instituted in the United States District Court in and for the District of Columbia or in any United States District Court in the jurisdiction where the Issuer's principal office is located.
6.06.
Venue
.
     Neither this Master Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations hereunder shall be assigned by any of the parties hereto (whether by operation of law or otherwise) without the prior written consent of the other party, and any purported assignment
6.07.
Assignment
.
 
without such consent shall be void. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Master Agreement shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties and their respective successors and assigns.
     . The headings and subheadings of the Table of Contents, Articles and Sections contained in this Master Agreement, except the terms identified for definition in Article I and elsewhere in this Master Agreement, are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Master Agreement or any provision hereof.
6.08.
Headings
     The Issuer shall submit a completed, executed and dated copy of the signature page hereto to the FDIC within five (5) business days of the date of the Issuer's election to continue participating in the debt guarantee component of the Program in accordance with the delivery instructions set forth on the signature page.
6.09.
Delivery Requirement
.
 
     , the Issuer and the FDIC have caused this Master Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
Delivery Instructions
     Please deliver a completed, executed and dated copy of this Signature Page to the FDIC within five (5) business days of the date of the Issuer's election to continue participating in the Debt Guarantee Program. Email is the preferred method of delivery to MasterAgreement@fdic.gov, or you may send it by an overnight courier service such as FedEx to Senior Counsel, Special Issues Unit, E7056, Attention: Master Agreement, 3501 Fairfax Drive, Arlington, Virginia, 22226.
11/24/08
TLGP Master Agreement
 
Annex A
     The following provisions shall be included in the governing documents for the issuance of Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee, in substantially the form presented below, unless otherwise specified. The appropriate name of the governing document(s) shall be inserted in place of the term "Agreement" where it appears in this Annex A.
Acknowledgement of the FDIC's Debt Guarantee Program
     The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that the Issuer has not opted out of the debt guarantee program (the "") established by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("") under its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. As a result, [The italicized portion of the above provision shall be included exactly as written above]
Debt Guarantee Program
FDIC
this debt is guaranteed under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. The details of the FDIC guarantee are provided in the FDIC's regulations, 12 CFR Part 370, and at the FDIC's website, www.fdic.gov/tlgp. The expiration date of the FDIC's guarantee is the earlier of the maturity date of this debt or June 30, 2012.
Representative
     The [insert name of the: trustee, administrative agent, paying agent or other fiduciary or agent to be designated as the duly authorized representative of the debt holders] is designated under this Agreement as the duly authorized representative of the holder[s] for purposes of making claims and taking other permitted or required actions under the Debt Guarantee Program (the ""). Any holder may elect not to be represented by the Representative by providing written notice of such election to the Representative.
Representative
Subrogation
     The FDIC shall be subrogated to all of the rights of the holder[s] and the Representative, if there shall be one, under this Agreement against the Issuer in respect of any amounts paid to the holder[s], or for the benefit of the holder[s], by the FDIC pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program.
Agreement to Execute Assignment upon Guarantee Payment
[If there is a Representative, insert the following:]
     The holder[s] hereby authorize the Representative, at such time as the FDIC shall commence making any guarantee payments to the Representative for the benefit of the holder[s] pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program, to execute an assignment in the form attached to this Agreement as Exhibit [___] [See ] pursuant to which the Representative shall assign to the FDIC its right as Representative to receive any and all payments from the Issuer under this Agreement on behalf of the holder[s]. The Issuer hereby consents and agrees that the FDIC is an acceptable transferee for all or any portion of the indebtedness hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement and upon any such assignment, the
Annex B to Master Agreement
11/24/08
TLGP Master Agreement
 
FDIC shall be deemed a holder under this Agreement for all purposes hereof, and the Issuer hereby agrees to take such reasonable steps as are necessary to comply with any relevant provision of this Agreement as a result of such assignment.
[or, if (i) there is no Representative or (ii) the holder has exercised its right not to be represented by the Representative, insert the following:]
     The holder[s] hereby agree that, at such time as the FDIC shall commence making any guarantee payments to the holder[s] pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program, the holder[s] shall execute an assignment in the form attached to this Agreement as Exhibit [___] [See ] pursuant to which the holder[s] shall assign to the FDIC [its/their] right to receive any and all payments from the Issuer under this Agreement. The Issuer hereby consents and agrees that the FDIC is an acceptable transferee for all or any portion of the indebtedness hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement and upon any such assignment, the FDIC shall be deemed a holder under this Agreement for all purposes thereof, and the Issuer hereby agrees to take such reasonable steps as are necessary to comply with any relevant provision of this Agreement as a result of such assignment.
Annex B to Master Agreement
Surrender of Senior Unsecured Debt Instrument to the FDIC
     If, at any time on or prior to the expiration of the period during which senior unsecured debt of the Issuer is guaranteed by the FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program (the "Effective Period"), payment in full hereunder shall be made pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on the outstanding principal and accrued interest to such date of payment, the holder shall, or the holder shall cause the person or entity in possession to, promptly surrender to the FDIC the security certificate, note or other instrument evidencing such debt, if any.
Notice Obligations to FDIC of Payment Default
     If, at any time prior to the earlier of (a) full satisfaction of the payment obligations hereunder, or (b) expiration of the Effective Period, the Issuer is in default of any payment obligation hereunder, including timely payment of any accrued and unpaid interest, without regard to any cure period, the Representative covenants and agrees that it shall provide written notice to the FDIC within one (1) Business Day of such payment default.
Ranking
     Any indebtedness of the Issuer to the FDIC arising under Section 2.03 of the Master Agreement entered into by the Issuer and the FDIC in connection with the Debt Guarantee Program will constitute a senior unsecured general obligation of the Issuer, ranking with any indebtedness hereunder.
pari passu
No Event of Default during Time of Timely FDIC Guarantee Payments
     There shall not be deemed to be an event of default under this Agreement which would permit or result in the acceleration of amounts due hereunder, if such an event of default is due solely to the failure of the Issuer to make timely payment hereunder, provided that the FDIC is
11/24/08
TLGP Master Agreement
 
making timely guarantee payments with respect to the debt obligations hereunder in accordance with 12 C.F.R Part 370.
No Modifications without FDIC Consent
     Without the express written consent of the FDIC, the parties hereto agree not to amend, modify, supplement or waive any provision in this Agreement that is related to the principal, interest, payment, default or ranking of the indebtedness hereunder or that is required to be included herein pursuant to the Master Agreement executed by the Issuer in connection with the Debt Guarantee Program.
11/24/08
TLGP Master Agreement
 
Annex B
     This Assignment is made pursuant to the terms of Section [  ] of the [  ], dated as of , 20__, as amended from time to time (the ""), between [Representative] (the ""), acting on behalf of the holders of the debt issued under the Agreement who have not opted out of representation by the Representative (the "Holders"), and the [Issuer] (the "") with respect to the debt obligations of the Issuer that are guaranteed under the Debt Guarantee Program. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned thereto in the Agreement.
                    
Agreement
Representative
Issuer
     For value received, the Representative, on behalf of the Holders (the ""), hereby assigns to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the ""), without recourse, all of the Assignor's respective rights, title and interest in and to: (a) the promissory note or other instrument evidencing the debt issued under the Agreement (the ""); (b) the Agreement pursuant to which the Note was issued; and (c) any other instrument or agreement executed by the Issuer regarding obligations of the Issuer under the Note or the Agreement (collectively, the "").
Assignor
FDIC
Note
Assignment
     The Assignor hereby certifies that:
     1. Without the FDIC's prior written consent, the Assignor has not:
     (a) agreed to any material amendment of the Note or the Agreement or to any material deviation from the provisions thereof; or
     (b) accelerated the maturity of the Note.
[If the Assignor has not assigned or transferred any interest in the Note and related documentation, such Assignor must include the following representation.]
Instructions to the Assignor:
     2. The Assignor has not assigned or otherwise transferred any interest in the Note or Agreement;
[If the Assignor has assigned a partial interest in the Note and related documentation, the Assignor must include the following representation.]
Instructions to the Assignor:
     2. The Assignor has assigned part of its rights, title and interest in the Note and the Agreement to __________ pursuant to the __________ agreement, dated as of __________, 20__, between __________, as assignor, and __________, as assignee, an executed copy of which is attached hereto.
     The Assignor acknowledges and agrees that this Assignment is subject to the Agreement and to the following:
 
11/24/08
TLGP Master Agreement
 
     1. In the event the Assignor receives any payment under or related to the Note or the Agreement from a party other than the FDIC (a ""):
Non-FDIC Payment
     (a) after the date of demand for a guarantee payment on the FDIC pursuant to 12 CFR Part 370, but prior to the date of the FDIC's first guarantee payment under the Agreement pursuant to 12 CFR Part 370, the Assignor shall promptly but in no event later than five (5) Business Days after receipt notify the FDIC of the date and the amount of such Non-FDIC Payment and shall apply such payment as payment made by the Issuer, and not as a guarantee payment made by the FDIC, and therefore, the amount of such payment shall be excluded from this Assignment; and
     (b) after the FDIC's first guarantee payment under the Agreement, the Assignor shall forward promptly to the FDIC such Non-FDIC Payment in accordance with the payment instructions provided in writing by the FDIC.
     2. Acceptance by the Assignor of payment pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on behalf of the Holders shall constitute a release by such Holders of any liability of the FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program with respect to such payment.
     The Person who is executing this Assignment on behalf of the Assignor hereby represents and warrants to the FDIC that he/she/it is duly authorized to do so.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Assignor has caused this instrument to be executed and delivered this ___day of __________, 20__.
11/24/08
TLGP Master Agreement
 
Consented to and acknowledged by this ____ day of _________, 20__:
11/24/08
TLGP Master Agreement
 
EXHIBIT B
     This Assignment is made pursuant to the terms of Section 15 of the reverse of KeyCorp's _________ Notes due __________, CUSIP No. __________ (the ""), between Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee (the ""), acting on behalf of the Holder of the Security who have not opted out of representation by the Representative, and KeyCorp (the "") with respect to the debt obligations of the Company that are guaranteed under the Debt Guarantee Program. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned thereto in the Security. Solely for the purpose of this Assignment, "" means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks are required or authorized by law to be closed in the State of New York.
Security
Representative
Company
Business Day
     For value received, the Representative, on behalf of the Holder (the ""), hereby assigns to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the ""), without recourse, all of the Assignor's respective rights, title and interest in and to: (a) the Security; (b) the indenture, dated as of June 10, 1994, as it may be supplemented from time to time (the ""), by and between the Company and the Representative, with respect to the Security; and (c) any other instrument or agreement executed by the Company regarding obligations of the Company under the Security or the Indenture with respect to the Security (collectively, the "").
Assignor
FDIC
Indenture
Assignment
     The Assignor hereby certifies that:
     1. Without the FDIC's prior written consent, the Assignor has not:
          (a) agreed to any material amendment of the Security or to any material deviation from the provisions thereof; or
          (b) accelerated the maturity of the Security.
     If the Assignor has not assigned or transferred any interest in the Security and related documentation, such Assignor must include the following representation.
[Instructions to the Assignor:
]
     2. The Assignor has not assigned or otherwise transferred any interest in the Security;
     If the Assignor has assigned a partial interest in the Security and related documentation, the Assignor must include the following representation.
[Instructions to the Assignor:
]
     2. The Assignor has assigned part of its rights, title and interest in the Security to __________ pursuant to the _____________ agreement, dated as of _____________, 20__, between __________, as assignor, and ___, as assignee, an executed copy of which is attached hereto.
     The Assignor acknowledges and agrees that this Assignment is subject to the Security and the Indenture and to the following:
     1. In the event the Assignor receives any payment under or related to the Security from a party other than the FDIC (a ""):
Non-FDIC Payment
 
          (a) after the date of demand for a guarantee payment on the FDIC pursuant to 12 CFR Part 370, but prior to the date of the FDIC's first guarantee payment under the Security pursuant to 12 CFR Part 370, the Assignor shall promptly but in no event later than five (5) Business Days after receipt notify the FDIC of the date and the amount of such Non-FDIC Payment and shall apply such payment as payment made by the Company, and not as a guarantee payment made by the FDIC, and therefore, the amount of such payment shall be excluded from this Assignment; and
          (b) after the FDIC's first guarantee payment under the Security, the Assignor shall forward promptly to the FDIC such Non-FDIC Payment in accordance with the payment instructions provided in writing by the FDIC.
     2. Acceptance by the Assignor of payment pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on behalf of the Holder shall constitute a release by the Holder of any liability of the FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program with respect to such payment.
     The Person who is executing this Assignment on behalf of the Assignor hereby represents and warrants to the FDIC that he/she/it is duly authorized to do so.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Assignor has caused this instrument to be executed and delivered this ____ day of _____________, 20__.
Consented to and acknowledged by this ____ day of _________, 20__:


