FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20091021121848.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
8-K  FORM 8-K EARNINGS RELEASE
INDEX TO EXHIBITS: EX-99.1 (Press Release Dated October 21, 2009) EX-99.2 (Supplemental Information Package in Connection With Financial Results) EX-99.3 (Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Income)
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
ITEM 2.02.
Regulation FD Disclosure.
ITEM 7.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
ITEM 9.01.
SIGNATURE
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
.
     On October 21, 2009, KeyCorp issued a press release announcing its financial results for the three-month period ended September 30, 2009 (the "Press Release"). The Press Release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.
     The information in the preceding paragraph, as well as Exhibit 99.1 referenced therein, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act").
     KeyCorp's Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Income (the "Financial Statements"), included as part of the Press Release, are attached as Exhibit 99.3 to this report and incorporated by reference herein. Exhibit 99.3 is "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act and, therefore, may be incorporated by reference in filings under the Securities Act.
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure
.
     On October 21, 2009, KeyCorp held a conference call and webcast to facilitate a discussion of its financial condition at September 30, 2009, and its financial results for the three-month period ended September 30, 2009. The Supplemental Information Package reviewed by KeyCorp during the conference call and webcast is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference in this Item 7.01. All information in the Supplemental Information Package is presented as of the particular date or dates referenced therein, and KeyCorp does not undertake any obligation to, and disclaims any duty to, update any of the information provided.
     The information in the preceding paragraph, as well as Exhibit 99.2 referenced therein, is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section. Furthermore, the information contained in Exhibit 99.2 shall not be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing of KeyCorp under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
Forward-Looking Statements
This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements about our financial condition, results of operations, earnings outlook, asset quality trends and profitability. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts but instead represent only management's current expectations and forecasts regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside of Key's control. Key's actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially include, among other things:
(
1) adverse capital market conditions and the ability to raise equity and other funding required by the banking regulators or otherwise; (2) further downgrades in Key's credit ratings; (3) unprecedented volatility in the stock markets, public debt markets and other capital markets, including continued disruption in the fixed income markets; (4) changes in interest rates; (5) changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policy; (6) changes in foreign exchange rates, equity markets and the financial soundness of other unrelated financial companies; (7) asset price deterioration. which has had (and may continue to have) a negative effect on the valuation of certain asset categories represented on Key's balance sheet; (8) continuation of the recent deterioration in general economic conditions, or in the condition of the local economies or industries in which Key has significant operations or assets, which could, among other things, materially impact credit quality trends and Key's ability to generate loans; (9) continued disruption in the housing markets and related conditions in the financial markets; (10) increased competitive pressure among financial services companies due to the consolidation of competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies; (11) heightened legal standards and regulatory practices, requirements or expectations; (12) the inability to successfully execute strategic initiatives designed to grow revenues and/or manage expenses; (13) increased FDIC deposit insurance premiums; (14) difficulty in attracting and/or retaining executives and/or relationship managers; (15) consummation of significant business combinations or divestitures; (16) operational or risk management failures due to technological or other factors; (17) changes in accounting or tax practices or requirements; (18) new legal obligations or liabilities or unfavorable resolution of litigation; and (19) disruption in the economy and general business climate as a result of terrorist activities or military actions.
For additional information on KeyCorp and the factors that could cause actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements consult KeyCorp's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission available on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (). Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and should not be relied upon as representing management's views as of any subsequent date. We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
www.sec.gov
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, KeyCorp has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     CLEVELAND, October 21, 2009  KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY) today announced a third quarter net loss from continuing operations attributable to Key common shareholders of $422 million, or $.50 per common share. These results compare to a net loss from continuing operations attributable to Key common shareholders of $9 million, or $.02 per common share, for the third quarter of 2008.
     The loss for the current quarter is largely the result of an increase in the provision for loan losses, write-downs of certain real estate related investments, higher costs associated with other real estate owned ("OREO"), and the write-off of certain intangible assets. During the third quarter, Key continued to increase its loan loss reserves by taking a $733 million provision for loan losses, which exceeded net charge-offs by $146 million. As of the end of the quarter, Key's allowance for loan losses was $2.5 billion, or 4.00% of total loans, up from $1.4 billion, or 1.90%, one year ago.
     "While our results continue to be impacted by the difficult operating environment, we believe the aggressive actions we've taken to address credit quality, strengthen capital and liquidity, and reshape our business mix position us to meet the challenges posed by the current environment and to emerge as a more competitive company when the economy rebounds," said Chief Executive Officer Henry L. Meyer III. "Further, we are encouraged by the continuation of deposit growth and the improvement in our net interest margin."
     During the third quarter, Key exchanged common shares for retail capital securities, raising $505 million of additional Tier 1 common equity. This completed a series of successful capital raises and exchanges that generated approximately $2.4 billion of new Tier 1 common equity to bolster the company's overall capital. At September 30, 2009, Key's estimated Tier 1 risk-based capital and Tier 1 common equity ratios were 12.61% and 7.63%, respectively.
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 2
     Key's average deposits grew by $3.6 billion, or 6%, compared to the year-ago quarter, and the company originated approximately $8.5 billion in new or renewed loans and commitments to consumers and businesses during the quarter, and $24.5 billion during the first nine months of the year. As part of a multi-year investment in its 14-state branch network, the company has opened 32 new branches (including relocations) in 8 markets in 2009, and expects to open an additional 6 branches by the end of the year. Also, Key will have completed renovations on approximately 160 branches over the past two years by the end of 2009.
     Meyer added: "We are continuing to strengthen our business mix and to concentrate on the areas in which we believe we can be the most competitive. Earlier this month, we announced our decision to exit the government-guaranteed education lending business, following earlier actions taken to cease private student lending. Additionally, within the equipment leasing business, we have decided to cease conducting business in both the commercial vehicle and office leasing markets. These actions exemplify our disciplined focus on our core relationship businesses."
     As a result of the decision to exit the government-guaranteed education lending business, Key has applied discontinued operations accounting to the education lending business for all periods presented in this release. In addition, during the third quarter of 2009, the company recorded a $45 million charge to write-off intangible assets, other than goodwill, associated with the decision to cease lending in certain equipment leasing markets.
     The following table shows Key's continuing and discontinued operating results for comparative quarters and for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2009 and 2008.
Results of Operations
 
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 3
     As shown in the following table, the comparability of Key's earnings for the current, prior and year-ago quarters is affected by several significant items.
Significant Items Affecting the Comparability of Earnings
 
EPS = Earnings per common share
SUMMARY OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS
     Taxable-equivalent net interest income was $599 million for the third quarter of 2009, and the net interest margin was 2.80%. These results compare to taxable-equivalent net interest income of $684 million and a net interest margin of 3.17% for the third quarter of 2008. During the past twelve months, the net interest margin has remained under pressure as the decrease in the federal funds target rate has resulted in a larger decrease in the interest rates on earning assets than that experienced for interest-bearing liabilities. Competition for deposits and a shift in deposit mix to higher costing, longer-term certificates of deposit have also contributed to the lower net interest margin. During the same period, earning asset yields have been compressed as a result of the higher levels of nonperforming loans. Additionally, during the third quarter of 2009, Key terminated certain leveraged lease financing arrangements, which reduced net interest income by $14 million and lowered the net interest margin by approximately 7 basis points.
     Compared to the second quarter of 2009, taxable-equivalent net interest income increased by $24 million, and the net interest margin rose by 10 basis points. The improvement reflects the impact of repricing maturing certificates of deposit at lower market rates, new or renewed loans with more favorable interest rate spreads, and increasing the securities available-for-sale portfolio using excess cash flows from loan repayments and deposit flows. The net interest margin for the second quarter was also affected by the termination of certain leveraged lease financing arrangements, which reduced net interest income by $16 million and lowered the net interest margin by approximately 7 basis points.
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 4
     Key's noninterest income was $382 million for the third quarter of 2009, compared to $390 million for the year-ago quarter. Both the third quarter of 2009 and 2008 were impacted by market related conditions. In the third quarter of 2009, the company recorded a $26 million loss resulting from changes in the fair values of certain investments made by the Funds Management unit within the Real Estate Capital and Corporate Banking Services line of business, a $20 million loss resulting from changes in the fair values of certain commercial mortgage-backed securities held in the trading portfolio, and a $12 million charge resulting from an increase in the reserve for losses related to customer derivatives. In addition, the company incurred a $17 million loss associated with the exchange of common shares for capital securities in the third quarter of 2009. Noninterest income for the third quarter of 2008 includes $54 million of derivative-related charges recorded as a result of market disruption caused by the failure of Lehman Brothers and $31 million of realized and unrealized losses from the residential properties segment of the construction loan portfolio.
     The major components of Key's fee-based income for the past five quarters are shown in the following table.
Fee-based Income  Major Components
     Compared to the second quarter of 2009, noninterest income decreased by $324 million. The decrease was due largely to three transactions recorded during the second quarter. These transactions included $125 million of net gains recorded in connection with the repositioning of the securities portfolio; a $95 million gain related to the exchange of common shares for capital securities, compared to the $17 million loss recorded in the current quarter; and a $32 million gain from the sale of Key's claim associated with the Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy. During the third quarter, Key also experienced a $40 million decrease in results from investment banking and capital markets activities, due primarily to the items discussed above, and a $14 million decrease in net gains on sales of leased equipment.
     Key's noninterest expense was $901 million for the third quarter of 2009, compared to $740 million for the same period last year. Personnel expense rose by $6 million, due largely to higher costs associated with employee benefits, primarily pension expense. This increase was offset in part by a reduction in salaries expense caused by a 9% decline in the number of average full-time equivalent employees. Nonpersonnel expense increased by $155 million, reflecting increases of $46 million resulting from the write-down or sale of OREO, $37 million in the FDIC deposit insurance assessment and $21 million in the provision for losses on lending-related commitments. Also contributing to the increase in noninterest expense was the $45 million write-off of intangible assets, other than goodwill, recorded during the third quarter of 2009 as a result of Key's decision to cease lending in certain equipment leasing markets.
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 5
     Compared to the second quarter of 2009, noninterest expense increased by $46 million as a result of the $45 million write-off of intangible assets associated with Key's equipment leasing business during the third quarter of 2009. Other changes in expense components between the third and second quarters of 2009 offset each other, with the FDIC deposit insurance assessment decreasing by $30 million and OREO expense increasing by $36 million.
ASSET QUALITY
     Key's provision for loan losses was $733 million for the third quarter of 2009, compared to $336 million for the year-ago quarter and $823 million for the second quarter of 2009. Credit migration, particularly in the commercial real estate portfolio, continues to result in higher levels of net charge-offs and nonperforming loans, and increased reserves. Key's provision for loan losses for the third quarter of 2009 exceeded net loan charge-offs by $146 million. As a result, Key's allowance for loan losses rose to $2.5 billion, or 4.00% of total loans, at September 30, 2009, up from $2.3 billion, or 3.48%, at June 30, 2009.
     Selected asset quality statistics for Key for each of the past five quarters are presented in the following table.
Selected Asset Quality Statistics from Continuing Operations
 
     Net loan charge-offs for the quarter totaled $587 million, or 3.59% of average loans. These results compare to $233 million, or 1.28%, for the same period last year and $502 million, or 2.93%, for the previous quarter. Key's net loan charge-offs by loan type for each of the past five quarters are shown in the following table.
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 6
Net Loan Charge-offs from Continuing Operations
     Compared to the second quarter of 2009, net loan charge-offs in the commercial loan portfolio increased by $82 million, as elevated net charge-offs continue on commercial real estate loans. The Real Estate Capital and Corporate Banking Services line of business within the National Banking group accounted for most of the growth in net charge-offs in the commercial real estate portfolio. The level of net charge-offs in the consumer portfolio rose by $3 million. As shown in the table on page 7, Key's exit loan portfolio accounted for $137 million, or 23%, of Key's total net loan charge-offs for the third quarter of 2009. Net charge-offs in the exit portfolio decreased by $11 million from the second quarter of 2009.
     At September 30, 2009, Key's nonperforming loans totaled $2.3 billion and represented 3.68% of period-end portfolio loans, compared to 3.25% at June 30, 2009, and 1.32% at September 30, 2008. Nonperforming assets at September 30, 2009, totaled $2.8 billion and represented 4.46% of portfolio loans, OREO and other nonperforming assets, compared to 3.77% at June 30, 2009, and 1.69% at September 30, 2008. The following table illustrates the trend in Key's nonperforming assets by loan type over the past five quarters.
Nonperforming Assets from Continuing Operations
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 7
     As shown in the preceding table, nonperforming assets rose during the third quarter of 2009, but at a much slower pace than that experienced in recent quarters. Most of the increase in nonperforming loans was attributable to the commercial real estate portfolio and was caused in part by the continuation of deteriorating market conditions in the income properties segment. The increase in nonperforming loans held for sale reflects the actions Key is taking to aggressively reduce its exposure in the commercial real estate and institutional portfolios through the sale of selected assets. In conjunction with these efforts, Key transferred $193 million of loans ($248 million, net of $55 million in net charge-offs) from the held-to-maturity loan portfolio to held-for-sale status during the third quarter of 2009, and has contracted to sell most of these loans by the end of October. As shown in the following table, Key's exit loan portfolio accounted for $695 million, or 25%, of Key's total nonperforming assets at September 30, 2009, compared to $747 million, or 29%, at June 30, 2009.
     The composition of Key's exit loan portfolio at September 30, 2009, and June 30, 2009, the net charge-offs recorded on this portfolio for the third and second quarters of 2009, and the nonperforming status of these loans at September 30, 2009, and June 30, 2009, are shown in the following table.
Exit Loan Portfolio from Continuing Operations
     Key's allowance for loan losses was $2.5 billion, or 4.00% of loans outstanding, at September 30, 2009, compared to $2.3 billion, or 3.48%, at June 30, 2009, and $1.4 billion, or 1.90%, at September 30, 2008. The company has continued to increase its allowance for loan losses as the current credit cycle progresses, and at September 30, 2009, had a coverage ratio of 109% of nonperforming loans.
CAPITAL
     Key's risk-based capital ratios included in the following table continued to exceed all "well-capitalized" regulatory benchmarks at September 30, 2009.
Capital Ratios
 
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 8
     In an effort to further enhance its Tier 1 common equity, on July 8, 2009, Key commenced an SEC-registered offer to exchange Key common shares for certain capital (i.e., retail trust preferred) securities. This exchange offer, which expired on August 4, 2009, generated approximately $505 million of additional Tier 1 common equity. This completes a series of successful capital raises and exchanges that generated approximately $2.4 billion of new Tier I common equity to bolster the company's overall capital and to respond to the SCAP initiated by the U.S. Treasury Department and the federal banking regulators. As shown in the preceding table, at September 30, 2009, Key had a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 12.61%, a Tier 1 common equity ratio of 7.63% and a tangible common equity ratio of 7.58%.
     Transactions that caused the change in Key's outstanding common shares over the past five quarters are summarized in the following table.
Summary of Changes in Common Shares Outstanding
     During the third quarter of 2009, Key made a $31 million cash dividend payment to the U.S. Treasury Department. This is the third of such quarterly payments that Key has made after having raised $2.5 billion of additional capital during the fourth quarter of 2008 as a participant in the U.S. Treasury's Capital Purchase Program.
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 9
LINE OF BUSINESS RESULTS
     The following table shows the contribution made by each major business group to Key's taxable-equivalent revenue from continuing operations and income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Key for the periods presented. The specific lines of business that comprise each of the major business groups are described under the heading "Line of Business Descriptions." For more detailed financial information pertaining to each business group and its respective lines of business, see the tables at the end of this release.
Major Business Groups
TE = Taxable Equivalent, N/M = Not Meaningful
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 10
Community Banking
TE = Taxable Equivalent, N/M = Not Meaningful
Additional Community Banking Data
Community Banking Summary of Operations
     Community Banking recorded a net loss attributable to Key of $7 million for the third quarter of 2009, compared to net income attributable to Key of $98 million for the year-ago quarter. Increases in the provision for loan losses and noninterest expense, coupled with decreases in net interest income and noninterest income, caused the decline.
     Taxable-equivalent net interest income declined by $19 million, or 4%, from the third quarter of 2008, due primarily to a decrease in average earning assets. Average deposits increased by $2.6 billion, or 5%, reflecting strong growth in noninterest-bearing deposits. The composition and value of deposits have been impacted by the declining interest rate environment and a shift from money market deposit accounts into higher-costing, longer-term certificates of deposit, reflecting consumer preferences.
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 11
     Noninterest income decreased by $14 million, or 7%, from the year-ago quarter, due largely to a decline in service charges on deposit accounts resulting from changing client behavior. Also contributing to lower noninterest income was a reduction in investment banking and capital markets income, due primarily to a decline in derivatives trading volume and an increase in the reserve for losses related to customer derivatives. These reductions were partially offset by higher mortgage loan sale gains.
     The provision for loan losses rose by $87 million compared to the third quarter of 2008, reflecting a $24 million increase in net loan charge-offs, primarily from the home equity and consumer installment loan portfolios. Community Banking's provision for loan losses for the third quarter of 2009 exceeded its net loan charge-offs by $49 million, as the company continued to increase reserves in light of the challenging credit conditions brought on by a weak economy.
     Noninterest expense grew by $48 million, or 11%, from the year-ago quarter, due largely to a higher FDIC deposit insurance assessment, and increases in both internally allocated overhead and marketing expense. The adverse effect of these factors was offset in part by lower personnel expense, reflecting a reduction in salaries expense caused by a decrease in the number of average full-time equivalent employees, and lower incentive compensation accruals.
National Banking
TE = Taxable Equivalent, N/M = Not Meaningful
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 12
National Banking Summary of Continuing Operations
     National Banking recorded a loss from continuing operations attributable to Key of $352 million for the third quarter of 2009, compared to $90 million for the same period one year ago. A substantially higher provision for loan losses, lower net interest income and an increase in noninterest expense were offset in part by an increase in noninterest income.
     Taxable-equivalent net interest income decreased by $41 million, or 13%, from the third quarter of 2008, due primarily to a decrease in average earning assets and a higher level of nonperforming loans, offset in part by more favorable deposit spreads and an increase in average deposits. Average earning assets decreased by $7.9 billion, or 17%, from the year-ago quarter, reflecting reductions in the commercial and held-for-sale loan portfolios. Average deposits rose by $1.1 billion, or 9%, as growth in NOW accounts and noninterest-bearing deposits more than offset a decline in money market deposit accounts.
     Noninterest income rose by $42 million, or 28%, from the third quarter of 2008. Both the third quarter of 2009 and 2008 were impacted by market-related conditions. In the third quarter of 2009, National Banking recorded a $26 million loss resulting from changes in the fair values of certain investments made by the Funds Management unit within the Real Estate Capital and Corporate Banking Services line of business, a $20 million loss resulting from changes in the fair values of certain commercial mortgage-backed securities held in the trading portfolio, and an $8 million charge resulting from an increase in the reserve for losses related to customer derivatives. Noninterest income for the third quarter of 2008 includes $54 million of derivative-related charges recorded as a result of market disruption caused by the failure of Lehman Brothers, and $31 million of realized and unrealized losses from the residential properties segment of the construction loan portfolio. The improvement in noninterest income compared to the third quarter of 2008 also reflects a $16 million increase in net gains on sales of leased equipment.
     The provision for loan losses rose by $314 million from the year-ago quarter. National Banking's provision for loan losses for the third quarter of 2009 exceeded its net loan charge-offs by $100 million as the company continued to increase reserves in a weak economy.
     Noninterest expense grew by $112 million, or 35%, from the third quarter of 2008, reflecting higher expenses associated with the write-down or sale of OREO, and the $45 million write-off of intangible assets, other than goodwill, recorded during the current quarter as a result of Key's decision to cease conducting business in certain equipment leasing markets. Also contributing to the growth in noninterest expense were increases in the provision for losses on lending-related commitments and a variety of other miscellaneous expense components. The adverse effect of these factors was offset in part by lower personnel expense, reflecting a reduction in salaries expense caused by a decrease in the number of average full-time equivalent employees, and a decline in severance costs.
     Earlier this month, management announced its decision to discontinue the education lending business and to focus on the growing demand from schools for integrated, simplified billing, payment and cash management solutions. The Consumer Finance line of business will continue to service existing loans in this portfolio and to originate education loans through December 4, 2009. In April 2009, Key made the strategic decision to curtail the operations of Austin Capital Management, Ltd., an investment subsidiary that specializes in managing hedge fund investments for its institutional customer base. As a result of these decisions, Key has applied discontinued operations accounting to these businesses.
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 13
Other Segments
     Other Segments consist of Corporate Treasury and Key's Principal Investing unit. These segments generated a net loss attributable to Key of $28 million for the third quarter of 2009, compared to net income attributable to Key of $8 million for the same period last year. These results reflect a $17 million loss related to the exchange of Key common shares for capital securities during the current quarter. Additionally, Key incurred $11 million of expense in the third quarter of 2009, compared to income of $8 million in the year-ago quarter as a result of the volatility associated with hedge accounting applied to debt instruments.
Line of Business Descriptions
Community Banking
provides individuals with branch-based deposit and investment products, personal finance services and loans, including residential mortgages, home equity and various types of installment loans. This line of business also provides small businesses with deposit, investment and credit products, and business advisory services.
Regional Banking
Regional Banking also offers financial, estate and retirement planning, and asset management services to assist high-net-worth clients with their banking, trust, portfolio management, insurance, charitable giving and related needs.
provides midsize businesses with products and services that include commercial lending, cash management, equipment leasing, investment and employee benefit programs, succession planning, access to capital markets, derivatives and foreign exchange.
Commercial Banking
National Banking
consists of two business units, Real Estate Capital and Corporate Banking Services.
Real Estate Capital and Corporate Banking Services
Real Estate Capital is a national business that provides construction and interim lending, permanent debt placements and servicing, equity and investment banking, and other commercial banking products and services to developers, brokers and owner-investors. This unit deals primarily with nonowner-occupied properties (i.e., generally properties in which at least 50% of the debt service is provided by rental income from nonaffiliated third parties). Real Estate Capital emphasizes providing clients with finance solutions through access to the capital markets.
Corporate Banking Services provides cash management, interest rate derivatives, and foreign exchange products and services to clients served by both the Community Banking and National Banking groups. Through its Public Sector and Financial Institutions businesses, Corporate Banking Services also provides a full array of commercial banking products and services to government and not-for-profit entities, and to community banks.
meets the equipment leasing needs of companies worldwide and provides equipment manufacturers, distributors and resellers with financing options for their clients. Lease financing receivables and related revenues are assigned to other lines of business (primarily Institutional and Capital Markets, and Commercial Banking) if those businesses are principally responsible for maintaining the relationship with the client.
Equipment Finance
through its KeyBanc Capital Markets unit, provides commercial lending, treasury management, investment banking, derivatives, foreign exchange, equity and debt underwriting and trading, and syndicated finance products and services to large corporations and middle-market companies.
Institutional and Capital Markets,
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 14
Through its Victory Capital Management unit, Institutional and Capital Markets also manages or offers advice regarding investment portfolios for a national client base, including corporations, labor unions, not-for-profit organizations, governments and individuals. These portfolios may be managed in separate accounts, common funds or the Victory family of mutual funds.
provides government-guaranteed education loans to students and their parents, and processes tuition payments for private schools. Through its Commercial Floor Plan Lending unit, this line of business also finances inventory for automobile dealers. In October 2008, Key exited retail and floor-plan lending for marine and recreational vehicle products, and began to limit new education loans to those backed by government guarantee. In September 2009, management made the decision to discontinue the education lending business and to focus on the growing demand from schools for integrated, simplified billing, payment and cash management solutions. The Consumer Finance line of business continues to service existing loans in these portfolios and will continue to originate education loans through December 4, 2009. These actions are consistent with Key's strategy of de-emphasizing nonrelationship or out-of-footprint businesses.
Consumer Finance
     Cleveland-based KeyCorp is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, with assets of $97.0 billion at September 30, 2009. Key companies provide investment management, retail and commercial banking, consumer finance, and investment banking products and services to individuals and companies throughout the United States and, for certain businesses, internationally. The company's businesses deliver their products and services through 1,003 branches and additional offices; a network of 1,492 ATMs; telephone banking centers (1.800.KEY2YOU); and a Web site, , that provides account access and financial products 24 hours a day.
https://www.key.com/
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 15
Notes to Editors:
A live Internet broadcast of KeyCorp's conference call to discuss quarterly results and currently anticipated earnings trends and to answer analysts' questions can be accessed through the Investor Relations section at
https://www.key.com/ir
at 9:00 a.m. ET, on Wednesday, October 21, 2009. An audio replay of the call will be available through October 28.
.
For up-to-date company information, media contacts and facts and figures about Key's lines of business visit our Media Newsroom at
https://www
.
key.com/newsroom
This earnings release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements about Key's financial condition, results of operations, earnings outlook, asset quality trends and profitability. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts but instead represent only management's current expectations and forecasts regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside of Key's control. Key's actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially include, among other things: (1) adverse capital market conditions and the ability to raise equity and other funding required by the banking regulators or otherwise; (2) further downgrades in Key's credit ratings; (3) unprecedented volatility in the stock markets, public debt markets and other capital markets, including continued disruption in the fixed income markets; (4) changes in interest rates; (5) changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policy; (6) changes in foreign exchange rates, equity markets and the financial soundness of other unrelated financial companies; (7) asset price deterioration, which has had (and may continue to have) a negative effect on the valuation of certain asset categories represented on Key's balance sheet; (8) continuation of the recent deterioration in general economic conditions, or in the condition of the local economies or industries in which Key has significant operations or assets, which could, among other things, materially impact credit quality trends and Key's ability to generate loans; (9) continued disruption in the housing markets and related conditions in the financial markets; (10) increased competitive pressure among financial services companies due to the consolidation of competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies; (11) heightened legal standards and regulatory practices, requirements or expectations; (12) the inability to successfully execute strategic initiatives designed to grow revenues and/or manage expenses; (13) increased FDIC deposit insurance premiums and debt-guarantee fees; (14) difficulty in attracting and/or retaining executives and/or relationship managers; (15) consummation of significant business combinations or divestitures; (16) operational or risk management failures due to technological or other factors; (17) changes in accounting or tax practices or requirements; (18) new legal obligations or liabilities or unfavorable resolution of litigation; and (19) disruption in the economy and general business climate as a result of terrorist activities or military actions.
For additional information on KeyCorp and the factors that could cause actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements consult KeyCorp's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission available on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (). Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and should not be relied upon as representing management's views as of any subsequent date. Key does not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
www.sec.gov
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 16
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 17
 
TE = Taxable Equivalent, GAAP = U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 18
The table below presents certain earnings data and performance ratios, excluding charges related to intangible assets impairment, and the tax treatment of certain leveraged lease financing transactions disallowed by the Internal Revenue Service. Management believes that eliminating the effects of significant items that are generally nonrecurring facilitates the analysis of results by presenting them on a more comparable basis.
The table also shows the computations of certain financial measures related to "tangible common equity" and "Tier 1 common equity." The tangible common equity ratio has become a focus of some investors and management believes that this ratio may assist investors in analyzing Key's capital position absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulators have assessed a bank's capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. As a result of the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program, these same regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Key's capital adequacy using the tangible common equity and/or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Key's capital adequacy using tangible common equity and Tier 1 common equity, management believes it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Key's capital adequacy on these same bases. The table also reconciles the GAAP performance measures to the corresponding non-GAAP measures.
Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. To mitigate these limitations, Key has procedures in place to ensure that these measures are calculated using the appropriate GAAP or regulatory components and to ensure that Key's performance is properly reflected to facilitate period-to-period comparisons. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by investors in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP.
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 19
 
TE = Taxable Equivalent, GAAP = U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 20
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 21
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 22
Average balances have not been adjusted prior to the third quarter of 2009 to reflect Key's January 1, 2008, adoption of the applicable accounting guidance related to the offsetting of certain derivative contracts on the consolidated balance sheet.
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 23
Average balances have not been adjusted prior to the third quarter of 2009 to reflect Key's January 1, 2008, adoption of the applicable accounting guidance related to the offsetting of certain derivative contracts on the consolidated balance sheet.
TE = Taxable Equivalent, GAAP = U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 24
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 25
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 26
 
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 27
 
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009
Page 28
 
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 29
Community Banking
 
KeyCorp Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results October 21, 2009 Page 30
National Banking
 
TE = Taxable Equivalent, N/A = Not Applicable, N/M = Not Meaningful

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3 (1 of 2)
 
Exhibit 99.3 (2 of 2)
 


