FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20090421092025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
.
     On April 21, 2009, KeyCorp issued a press release announcing its earnings results for the three-month period ended March 31, 2009 (the "Press Release"). This Press Release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference herein. KeyCorp also held a conference call/webcast on April 21, 2009, to discuss its results. The slide presentation reviewed by KeyCorp in the conference call/webcast (the "Conference Call/Webcast Slide Presentation") is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and incorporated by reference herein.
     The information in the preceding paragraph, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act").
     KeyCorp's Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Income (the "Financial Statements") included as part of the Press Release, are attached as Exhibit 99.3 to this report and are incorporated by reference herein. Exhibit 99.3 is "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act and, therefore, may be incorporated by reference in filings under the Securities Act.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
Forward-Looking Statements
This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements about our financial condition, results of operations, earnings outlook, asset quality trends and profitability. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts but instead represent only management's current expectations and forecasts regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside of Key's control. Key's actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially include, among other things: (1) unprecedented volatility in the stock markets, public debt markets and other capital markets, including continued disruption in the fixed income markets; (2) changes in interest rates; (3) changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policy; (4) adverse capital markets conditions; (5) asset price deterioration. which has had (and may continue to have) a negative effect on the valuation of certain asset categories represented on Key's balance sheet; (6) continuation of the recent deterioration in general economic conditions, or in the condition of the local economies or industries in which we have significant operations or assets, which could, among other things, materially impact credit quality trends and our ability to generate loans; (7) continued disruption in the housing markets and related conditions in the financial markets; (8) increased competitive pressure among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies; (9) heightened legal standards and
Table of Contents
regulatory practices, requirements or expectations; (10) the inability to successfully execute strategic initiatives designed to grow revenues and/or manage expenses; (11) increased FDIC deposit insurance premiums; (12) difficulty in attracting and/or retaining key executives and/or relationship managers; (13) consummation of significant business combinations or divestitures; (14) operational or risk management failures due to technological or other factors; (15) changes in accounting or tax practices or requirements; (16) new legal obligations or liabilities or unfavorable resolution of litigation; and (17) disruption in the economy and general business climate as a result of terrorist activities or military actions.
For additional information on KeyCorp and the factors that could cause Key's actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements consult Key's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission available on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (). Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and should not be relied upon as representing management's views as of any subsequent date. We do not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
www.sec.gov
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
     CLEVELAND, April 21, 2009  KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY) today announced a first quarter net loss attributable to Key of $488 million, or $1.09 per common share, compared to net income attributable to Key of $218 million, or $.54 per diluted common share, for the first quarter of 2008. The loss for the current quarter was primarily the result of an increase in the provision for loan losses and a noncash accounting charge for intangible assets impairment.
     In light of the prevailing economic environment during the first quarter of 2009, Key continued to build its loan loss reserves by taking an $875 million provision for loan losses, which exceeded net charge-offs by $383 million. As of the end of the quarter, Key's allowance for loan losses was $2.186 billion, or 2.97% of total loans, up from $1.298 billion, or 1.70% one year ago. Additionally, the company determined that the estimated fair value of its National Banking reporting unit was less than the carrying amount, reflecting continued weakness in the financial markets. As a result, Key recorded an after-tax noncash accounting charge of $187 million. Importantly, this adjustment did not affect Key's regulatory and tangible capital ratios. As a result of this charge, Key has now written off all of the goodwill that had been assigned to its National Banking reporting unit.
     "Our results reflect an extremely challenging operating environment and the expedient steps we continue to take to identify problem loans and to build Key's loan loss reserves," said Chief Executive Officer Henry L. Meyer III. "We believe building additional reserves is appropriate given the continued pressure on credit quality, as more businesses and consumers are affected by the persistent severity of the economic downturn.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results April 21, 2009 Page 2
     "Our top priorities are to manage through the credit cycle and maintain a strong capital position," Meyer noted, adding that Key's Board of Directors has expressed its intention to reduce Key's quarterly dividend on common shares to $.01 per share from $.0625, commencing in the second quarter of 2009, an action that will retain approximately $100 million of capital on an annual basis. "At March 31, 2009, our Tier 1 capital ratio was 11.16% and our tangible common equity ratio was 6.06%. Additionally, we remain focused on managing our costs.
     "During the first quarter, Key originated approximately $7.8 billion in new or renewed loans and commitments to consumers and businesses. In the current environment, it is imperative that we strike a careful balance between managing risk effectively and doing our part to help the country regain its financial viability," said Meyer. "Our commitment is to be part of the solution, as evidenced by our participation in the U.S. Treasury's Capital Purchase Program, designed to provide capital to healthy financial institutions to help restore stability to the financial sector and to increase the availability of credit to individuals and businesses."
     Key's Community Banking business continues to benefit from its relationship banking strategy as evidenced by solid loan and deposit growth. Compared to the first quarter of 2008, average loans grew by $855 million, or 3%, and average deposits rose by $1.783 billion, or 4%.
     As shown in the following table, the comparability of Key's earnings for the current, prior and year-ago quarters is affected by several significant items.
Significant Items Affecting the Comparability of Earnings
EPS = Earnings per common share
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS
     Key's taxable-equivalent net interest income was $620 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared to $704 million for the year-ago quarter. The net interest margin for the current quarter declined to 2.77% from 3.14% for the first quarter of 2008. During the past year, the net interest margin has remained under pressure as the fall in the federal funds target rate has caused interest rates on earning assets to decline more rapidly than the rates paid for interest-bearing liabilities. Competition for deposits and a shift in deposit mix to higher costing certificates of deposit have contributed to a lower net interest margin. In addition, earning asset yields have been compressed as a result of the higher levels of nonperforming assets.
     Compared to the fourth quarter of 2008, taxable-equivalent net interest income decreased by $26 million, and the net interest margin was essentially unchanged. During the first quarter, the net interest margin began to stabilize as deposits repriced and the volume of lower-yielding assets decreased as
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results April 21, 2009 Page 3
liquidity improved in the commercial paper market for certain customer segments. These positive developments were moderated by a higher level of nonperforming assets. Average earning assets decreased by $3.242 billion, or 3%, reflecting improved liquidity for commercial customers in the commercial paper market and a reduction in the demand for standby credit. Run-off in Key's exit portfolio, net charge-offs and a lower federal funds sold position also contributed to the decrease in earning assets compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
     Key's noninterest income was $492 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared to $530 million for the year-ago quarter. The decrease was attributable to two primary factors. Key recorded net losses of $72 million from principal investing in the first quarter of 2009, compared to net gains of $11 million for the same period last year. In addition, Key recorded a $105 million gain from the sale of Visa Inc. shares during the first quarter of 2009, compared to a $165 million gain from the partial redemption of shares one year ago. Excluding principal investing activities and the gains associated with the Visa shares, Key's noninterest income was up $105 million from the first quarter of 2008. Contributing to this improvement was a $19 million increase in gains on leased equipment (included in "miscellaneous income") and a $10 million increase in income from investment banking and capital markets activities. In addition, Key had net gains of $8 million from loan sales in the current quarter, compared to net losses of $101 million for the same period last year. The increase attributable to these factors was offset in part by net losses of $14 million from securities in the current year and a $12 million reduction in income from trust and investment services.
     The major components of Key's fee-based income for the past five quarters are shown in the following table.
Fee-based Income  Major Components
     Compared to the fourth quarter of 2008, noninterest income increased by $97 million, due primarily to the $105 million gain from the sale of Visa Inc. shares recorded during the first quarter and a $24 million reduction in net losses from investments made by the Private Equity unit within Key's Real Estate Capital and Corporate Banking Services line of business. Additionally, during the first quarter of 2009, Key recorded net gains (included in "miscellaneous income") of $11 million related to the volatility associated with the hedge accounting applied to debt instruments, compared to net losses of $39 million recorded in the prior quarter. The increase in noninterest income attributable to these factors was offset in part by a $35 million increase in net losses from principal investing and a $21 million reduction in income from trust and investment services.
     Key's noninterest expense was $973 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared to $733 million for the same period last year. Excluding the intangible assets impairment charge of $223 million recorded in the current quarter, noninterest expense was up $17 million, or 2%. Personnel expense decreased by $47 million as a result of lower incentive compensation accruals and a reduction in salaries expense caused by a 5% decline in the number of average full-time equivalent employees. The reduction in personnel expense was more than offset by a $64 million increase in nonpersonnel expense (excluding the intangible assets impairment charge), due primarily to a $27 million credit for losses on lending-
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results April 21, 2009 Page 4
related commitments recorded in the first quarter of 2008 and a $28 million increase in the FDIC deposit insurance assessment. The higher deposit insurance assessment is a result of actions recently taken by the FDIC to restore the Deposit Insurance Fund to the minimum level acceptable under current law. Additionally, professional fees rose by $12 million as a result of higher costs associated with collection efforts and other corporate initiatives.
     Compared to the fourth quarter of 2008, noninterest expense declined by $329 million. Personnel expense decreased by $49 million, as lower incentive compensation accruals and decreases in salaries and severance expense more than offset a rise in costs associated with employee benefits. Included in noninterest expense for the fourth quarter of 2008 is $31 million of severance and other exit costs. Nonpersonnel expense decreased by $280 million from the prior quarter. Excluding the intangible assets impairment charge recorded in the current quarter and an intangible assets impairment charge of $465 million recorded during the fourth quarter of 2008, nonpersonnel expense was down $38 million, due to reductions in professional fees, marketing expense and a variety of other expense components. These reductions were offset in part by a $27 million increase in the FDIC deposit insurance assessment.
ASSET QUALITY
     Key's provision for loan losses was $875 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared to $187 million for the year-ago quarter and $594 million for the fourth quarter of 2008. The increase from the year-ago quarter reflects a higher level of net loan charge-offs in each of Key's major loan categories with the most significant growth experienced in the commercial loan portfolio. The increase in commercial loan net charge-offs is primarily attributable to commercial real estate related credits within the Real Estate Capital and Corporate Banking Services line of business. Net charge-offs for this line of business were up $180 million from the first quarter of 2008 and $137 million from the fourth quarter of 2008. Additionally, Key's provision for loan losses for the first quarter of 2009 exceeded net loan charge-offs by $383 million as the company continued to build reserves in a weak economy.
     Selected asset quality statistics for Key for each of the past five quarters are presented in the following table.
Selected Asset Quality Statistics
     Net loan charge-offs for the quarter totaled $492 million, or 2.65% of average loans. These results compare to $121 million, or .67%, for the same period last year and $342 million, or 1.77%, for the previous quarter. Key's net loan charge-offs by loan type for each of the past five quarters are shown in the following table.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results
April 21, 2009
Page 5
Net Loan Charge-offs
     Compared to the fourth quarter of 2008, net loan charge-offs in the commercial loan portfolio increased by $143 million. Of this amount, $137 million came from the Real Estate Capital and Corporate Banking Services line of business within the National Banking group. The level of net charge-offs in the consumer portfolio rose by $7 million, due primarily to losses incurred in the marine portfolio. As shown in the table on page 6, Key's exit loan portfolio accounted for $139 million, or 28%, of Key's total net loan charge-offs for the first quarter of 2009.
     At March 31, 2009, Key's nonperforming loans totaled $1.738 billion and represented 2.36% of period-end portfolio loans, compared to 1.60% at December 31, 2008, and 1.38% at March 31, 2008. Nonperforming assets at March 31, 2009, totaled $1.997 billion and represented 2.70% of portfolio loans, other real estate owned and other nonperforming assets, compared to 1.91% at December 31, 2008, and 1.46% at March 31, 2008. The following table illustrates the trend in Key's nonperforming assets by loan type over the past five quarters.
Nonperforming Assets
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results
April 21, 2009
Page 6
     As shown in the preceding table, the growth in nonperforming assets during the first quarter of 2009 was due primarily to higher levels of nonperforming loans in the commercial and financial, and commercial real estate portfolios. The increase in the commercial and financial portfolio reflects the impact of general weakness in the economic environment and was principally attributable to loans related to commercial real estate, automobile floor-plan lending and the Equipment Finance line of business. The increase in the commercial real estate portfolio was caused in part by the continuation of deteriorating market conditions in both the residential properties and income properties segments of Key's commercial real estate construction portfolio. As shown in the following table, Key's exit loan portfolio, which includes residential homebuilder loans and residential loans held for sale, accounted for $502 million, or 25%, of Key's total nonperforming assets at March 31, 2009, compared to $481 million, or 33%, at December 31, 2008.
     The composition of Key's exit loan portfolio at March 31, 2009, and December 31, 2008, the net charge-offs recorded on this portfolio for the first quarter of 2009 and the fourth quarter of 2008, and the nonperforming status of these loans at March 31, 2009, and December 31, 2008, are shown in the table below.
Exit Loan Portfolio
     Key's allowance for loan losses was $2.186 billion, or 2.97% of loans outstanding, at March 31, 2009, compared to $1.803 billion, or 2.36%, at December 31, 2008, and $1.298 billion, or 1.70%, at March 31, 2008. The company has continued to build its allowance for loan losses as the current credit cycle progresses, and at March 31, 2009, had a coverage ratio of 126%.
CAPITAL
     Key's risk-based capital ratios included in the following table continued to exceed all "well-capitalized" regulatory benchmarks at March 31, 2009.
Capital Ratios
     During the first quarter of 2009, Key made a $32 million dividend payment to the U.S. Treasury Department. This is the first of such quarterly payments that Key will be making to the government after
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results
April 21, 2009
Page 7
having raised $2.5 billion of additional capital during the fourth quarter of 2008 as a participant in the U.S. Treasury's Capital Purchase Program. This program was designed to provide capital to healthy financial institutions to help restore stability to the financial sector and to increase the availability of credit to individuals and businesses.
     In April, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $1.9375 per share of Key's Noncumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series A. The dividend is payable June 15, 2009, to shareholders of record on May 29, 2009.
     To maintain a strong capital base, Key's Board of Directors has expressed its intention to reduce Key's quarterly dividend on common shares to $.01 per share from $.0625, commencing in the second quarter of 2009, an action that will retain approximately $100 million of capital on an annual basis.
LINE OF BUSINESS RESULTS
     The following table shows the contribution made by each major business group to Key's taxable-equivalent revenue and net (loss) income attributable to Key for the periods presented. The specific lines of business that comprise each of the major business groups are described under the heading "Line of Business Descriptions." For more detailed financial information pertaining to each business group and its respective lines of business, see the tables at the end of this release.
Major Business Groups
TE = Taxable Equivalent, N/M = Not Meaningful
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results
April 21, 2009
Page 8
Community Banking
Community Banking Summary of Operations
     Community Banking recorded net income of $33 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared to $116 million for the year-ago quarter. Increases in the provision for loan losses and noninterest expense, coupled with decreases in net interest income and noninterest income caused the decline.
     Taxable-equivalent net interest income declined by $7 million, or 2%, from the first quarter of 2008, due primarily to tighter loan spreads. Average earning assets rose by $911 million, or 3%, from the year-ago quarter, due to growth in both the commercial and consumer loan portfolios. Average deposits increased by $1.783 billion, or 4%, reflecting growth in certificates of deposit and noninterest-bearing deposits. A decline in money market deposit accounts partially offset this growth.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results
April 21, 2009
Page 9
     Noninterest income decreased by $18 million, or 9%, from the year-ago quarter, largely as a result of lower income from trust and investment services caused by declines in the financial markets, and a reduction in service charges on deposit accounts. Also contributing to the decrease was a reduction in investment banking and capital markets income, due primarily to lower income from derivatives. These reductions were partially offset by growth in bank channel investment product sales income.
     The provision for loan losses rose by $63 million compared to the first quarter of 2008, reflecting a $24 million increase in net loan charge-offs, primarily from the home equity and commercial loan portfolios. Community Banking's provision for loan losses for the first quarter of 2009 exceeded its net loan charge-offs by $27 million as the company continued to build reserves in a weak economy.
     Noninterest expense grew by $45 million, or 11%, from the year-ago quarter as a result of an increase in the FDIC deposit insurance assessment, a rise in internally allocated overhead and a reduction in the credit for losses on lending-related commitments. This growth was partially offset by a decline in personnel expense, due primarily to reductions in incentive compensation accruals and severance expense.
National Banking
TE = Taxable Equivalent, N/M = Not Meaningful
National Banking Summary of Operations
     National Banking recorded a net loss attributable to Key of $571 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared to $24 million for the same period one year ago. During the first quarter of 2009, results were adversely affected by an intangible assets impairment charge of $223 million ($187 million after tax), which resulted from a reduction in the estimated fair value of the National Banking reporting unit caused by continued weakness in the financial markets. As of March 31, 2009, there was no goodwill remaining in the National Banking reporting unit. Also contributing to the decline in performance was a substantially higher provision for loan losses, lower net interest income and an increase in noninterest expense, offset in part by growth in noninterest income.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results
April 21, 2009
Page 10
     Taxable-equivalent net interest income decreased by $52 million, or 15%, from the first quarter of 2008, due primarily to tighter loan and deposit spreads, and higher levels of nonperforming assets and net loan charge-offs. Average earning assets decreased by $1.537 billion, or 3%, from the year-ago quarter, reflecting reductions in the commercial, home equity and held-for-sale loan portfolios. Average deposits rose by $337 million, or 3%, as growth in certificates of deposit more than offset declines in money market deposit accounts and noninterest-bearing deposits.
     Noninterest income rose by $150 million, or 149%, from the first quarter of 2008. The improvement reflects net loan sale gains of $3 million in the current quarter, compared to net losses of $105 million in the year-ago quarter. Additionally, results from investment banking and capital markets activities improved by $30 million as National Banking recorded dealer trading and derivatives income of $9 million in the first quarter of 2009, compared to losses of $32 million one year ago when a $53 million write-down of certain trading instruments was recorded. This improvement was offset in part by a $12 million reduction in investment banking income. Also contributing to the growth in noninterest income was a $19 million increase in gains on leased equipment.
     The provision for loan losses rose by $620 million, due primarily to higher levels of net loan charge-offs from the commercial and financial, commercial real estate, education and marine loan portfolios. National Banking's provision for loan losses for the first quarter of 2009 exceeded its net loan charge-offs by $351 million as the company continued to build reserves in a weak economy.
     Excluding the intangible assets impairment charge recorded during the first quarter of 2009, noninterest expense increased by $6 million, or 2%, from the first quarter of 2008, reflecting a decrease in the credit for losses on lending-related commitments, an increase in the FDIC deposit insurance assessment and higher internally allocated support costs. The adverse effect of these factors was offset in part by lower personnel expense, due primarily to a reduction in incentive compensation accruals and a 19% reduction in the number of average full-time equivalent employees.
Other Segments
     Other Segments consist of Corporate Treasury and Key's Principal Investing unit. These segments generated a net loss attributable to Key of $37 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared to net income attributable to Key of $21 million for the same period last year. These results reflect net losses of $72 million from principal investing in the first quarter of 2009, compared to net gains of $11 million for the same period last year.
Line of Business Descriptions
provides individuals with branch-based deposit and investment products, personal finance services and loans, including residential mortgages, home equity and various types of installment loans. This line of business also provides small businesses with deposit, investment and credit products, and business advisory services.
Community Banking
Regional Banking
Regional Banking also offers financial, estate and retirement planning, and asset management services to assist high-net-worth clients with their banking, trust, portfolio management, insurance, charitable giving and related needs.
provides midsize businesses with products and services that include commercial lending, cash management, equipment leasing, investment and employee benefit programs, succession planning, access to capital markets, derivatives and foreign exchange.
Commercial Banking
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results
April 21, 2009
Page 11
consists of two business units, Real Estate Capital and Corporate Banking Services.
National Banking
Real Estate Capital and Corporate Banking Services
Real Estate Capital is a national business that provides construction and interim lending, permanent debt placements and servicing, equity and investment banking, and other commercial banking products and services to developers, brokers and owner-investors. This unit deals primarily with nonowner-occupied properties (i.e., generally properties in which at least 50% of the debt service is provided by rental income from nonaffiliated third parties). Real Estate Capital emphasizes providing clients with finance solutions through access to the capital markets.
Corporate Banking Services provides cash management, interest rate derivatives, and foreign exchange products and services to clients served by both the Community Banking and National Banking groups. Through its Public Sector and Financial Institutions businesses, Corporate Banking Services also provides a full array of commercial banking products and services to government and not-for-profit entities, and to community banks.
meets the equipment leasing needs of companies worldwide and provides equipment manufacturers, distributors and resellers with financing options for their clients. Lease financing receivables and related revenues are assigned to other lines of business (primarily Institutional and Capital Markets, and Commercial Banking) if those businesses are principally responsible for maintaining the relationship with the client.
Equipment Finance
through its KeyBanc Capital Markets unit, provides commercial lending, treasury management, investment banking, derivatives, foreign exchange, equity and debt underwriting and trading, and syndicated finance products and services to large corporations and middle-market companies.
Institutional and Capital Markets,
Through its Victory Capital Management unit, Institutional and Capital Markets also manages or offers advice regarding investment portfolios for a national client base, including corporations, labor unions, not-for-profit organizations, governments and individuals. These portfolios may be managed in separate accounts, common funds or the Victory family of mutual funds.
provides government-guaranteed education loans to students and their parents, and processes tuition payments for private schools. Through its Commercial Floor Plan Lending unit, this line of business also finances inventory for automobile dealers. In October 2008, Consumer Finance exited retail and floor-plan lending for marine and recreational vehicle products, and began to limit new education loans to those backed by government guarantee. This line of business continues to service existing loans in these portfolios and to honor existing education loan commitments. These actions are consistent with Key's strategy of de-emphasizing nonrelationship or out-of-footprint businesses.
Consumer Finance
Cleveland-based KeyCorp is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, with assets of $97.834 billion. Key companies provide investment management, retail and commercial banking, consumer finance, and investment banking products and services to individuals and companies throughout the United States and, for certain businesses, internationally. The company's businesses deliver their products and services through 989 branches and additional offices; a network of 1,479 ATMs; telephone banking centers (1.800.KEY2YOU); and a Web site, ,that provides account access and financial products 24 hours a day.
https://www.key.com/
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results
April 21, 2009
Page 12
Notes to Editors:
A live Internet broadcast of KeyCorp's conference call to discuss quarterly results and currently anticipated earnings trends and to answer analysts' questions can be accessed through the Investor Relations section at
https://www.key.com/ir
at 9:00 a.m. ET, on Tuesday, April 21, 2009. An audio replay of the call will be available through April 28.
.
For up-to-date company information, media contacts and facts and figures about Key's lines of business visit our Media Newsroom at
https://www
.
key.com/newsroom
This earnings release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements about our financial condition, results of operations, earnings outlook, asset quality trends and profitability. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts but instead represent only management's current expectations and forecasts regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside of Key's control. Key's actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially include, among other things: (1) unprecedented volatility in the stock markets, public debt markets and other capital markets, including continued disruption in the fixed income markets; (2) changes in interest rates; (3) changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policy; (4) adverse capital markets conditions; (5) asset price deterioration. which has had (and may continue to have) a negative effect on the valuation of certain asset categories represented on Key's balance sheet; (6) continuation of the recent deterioration in general economic conditions, or in the condition of the local economies or industries in which we have significant operations or assets, which could, among other things, materially impact credit quality trends and our ability to generate loans; (7) continued disruption in the housing markets and related conditions in the financial markets; (8) increased competitive pressure among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies; (9) heightened legal standards and regulatory practices, requirements or expectations; (10) the inability to successfully execute strategic initiatives designed to grow revenues and/or manage expenses; (11) increased FDIC deposit insurance premiums; (12) difficulty in attracting and/or retaining key executives and/or relationship managers; (13) consummation of significant business combinations or divestitures; (14) operational or risk management failures due to technological or other factors; (15) changes in accounting or tax practices or requirements; (16) new legal obligations or liabilities or unfavorable resolution of litigation; and (17) disruption in the economy and general business climate as a result of terrorist activities or military actions.
For additional information on KeyCorp and the factors that could cause Key's actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements consult Key's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission available on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (www.sec.gov). Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and should not be relied upon as representing management's views as of any subsequent date. We do not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results
April 21, 2009
Page 13
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results
April 21, 2009
Page 14
During the first quarter of 2009, Key recorded an after-tax charge of $187 million, or $.38 per common share, for intangible assets impairment. In the prior quarter, Key recorded an after-tax charge of $420 million, or $.85 per common share, as a result of its annual goodwill impairment testing.
Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2008, Key recorded an after-tax credit of $120 million, or $.24 per common share, in connection with its opt-in to the Internal Revenue Service global tax settlement. During the first quarter of 2008, Key increased its tax reserves for certain lease in, lease out transactions and recalculated its lease income in accordance with prescribed accounting standards, resulting in after-tax charges of $38 million, or $.10 per common share.
The table below presents certain earnings data and performance ratios, excluding these charges (credits) (non-GAAP), reconciles the GAAP performance measures to the corresponding non-GAAP measures and provides a basis for period-to-period comparisons. Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results April 21, 2009 Page 15
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results April 21, 2009 Page 16
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results April 21, 2009 Page 17
Average balances have not been restated to reflect Key's January 1, 2008, adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 39, "Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts," and FASB Staff Position FIN 39-1, "Amendment of FASB Interpretation 39."
 
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results April 21, 2009 Page 18
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results April 21, 2009 Page 19
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results April 21, 2009 Page 20
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results April 21, 2009 Page 21
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results April 21, 2009 Page 22
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results April 21, 2009 Page 23
Community Banking
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2009 Results April 21, 2009 Page 24
National Banking
TE = Taxable Equivalent, N/A = Not Applicable, N/M = Not Meaningful

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3 (1 of 2)
 
Exhibit 99.3 (2 of 2)


