FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20090722091012.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
8-K  FORM 8-K EARNING RELEASE
Table of Contents
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
.
     On July 22, 2009, KeyCorp issued a press release announcing its earnings results for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2009 (the "Press Release"). This Press Release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference herein.
      KeyCorp also held a conference call/webcast on July 22, 2009, to discuss its results. The slide presentation reviewed by KeyCorp in the conference call/webcast (the "Conference Call/Webcast Slide Presentation") is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and incorporated by reference herein.
     The information in the preceding paragraph as well as Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
Forward-Looking Statements
This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements about our financial condition, results of operations, earnings outlook, asset quality trends and profitability. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts but instead represent only management's current expectations and forecasts regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside of Key's control. Key's actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially include, among other things: (1) adverse capital market conditions and the ability to raise equity and other funding required by the banking regulators or otherwise; (2) further downgrades in Key's credit ratings; (3) unprecedented volatility in the stock markets, public debt markets and other capital markets, including continued disruption in the fixed income markets; (4) potential misinterpretation of the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program ("SCAP") or Key's efforts to raise the required capital could affect Key's ability to attract and retain customers and compete for new business opportunities; (5) changes in interest rates; (6) changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policy; (7) changes in foreign exchange rates, equity markets and the financial soundness of other unrelated financial companies; (8) asset price deterioration. which has had (and may continue to have) a negative effect on the valuation of certain asset categories represented on Key's balance sheet; (9) continuation of the recent deterioration in general economic conditions, or in the condition of the local economies or industries in
Table of Contents
which Key has significant operations or assets, which could, among other things, materially impact credit quality trends and Key's ability to generate loans; (10) continued disruption in the housing markets and related conditions in the financial markets; (11) increased competitive pressure among financial services companies due to the consolidation of competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies; (12) heightened legal standards and regulatory practices, requirements or expectations; (13) the inability to successfully execute strategic initiatives designed to grow revenues and/or manage expenses; (14) increased FDIC deposit insurance premiums; (15) difficulty in attracting and/or retaining executives and/or relationship managers; (16) consummation of significant business combinations or divestitures; (17) operational or risk management failures due to technological or other factors; (18) changes in accounting or tax practices or requirements; (19) new legal obligations or liabilities or unfavorable resolution of litigation; and (20) disruption in the economy and general business climate as a result of terrorist activities or military actions.
For additional information on KeyCorp and the factors that could cause Key's actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements consult Key's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2008, and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission available on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (www.sec.gov). Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and should not be relied upon as representing management's views as of any subsequent date. We do not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     CLEVELAND, July 22, 2009  KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY) today announced a second quarter net loss from continuing operations attributable to Key of $236 million, or $.69 per common share. Per share results for the current quarter are after cash and deemed preferred stock dividends of $164 million, or $.28 per common share. These dividends include a noncash deemed dividend of $114 million related to the exchange of Key common shares for Key's Series A Preferred Stock as part of the company's efforts to raise an additional $1.8 billion of Tier 1 common equity, and a cash dividend payment of $31 million made to the U.S. Treasury Department under the Capital Purchase Program. Results for the current quarter compare to a net loss from continuing operations of $1.128 billion, or $2.71 per common share, for the second quarter of 2008.
     The loss for the current quarter is largely the result of an increase in the provision for loan losses. During the second quarter, Key continued to build its loan loss reserves by taking an $850 million provision for loan losses, which exceeded net charge-offs by $311 million. As of the end of the quarter, Key's allowance for loan losses was $2.5 billion, or 3.53% of total loans, up from $1.4 billion, or 1.87% one year ago. The loss for the year-ago quarter was largely attributable to a $1.011 billion after-tax charge recorded as a result of an adverse federal tax court ruling that impacted Key's accounting for certain lease financing transactions.
     "Our results continue to reflect the weak economic environment and the aggressive steps we've taken to address credit quality, strengthen our capital position and control costs as we manage through this difficult credit cycle," said Chief Executive Officer Henry L. Meyer III.
     During the second quarter, Key successfully raised more than $1.8 billion in new Tier 1 common equity as required by the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program ("SCAP") initiated by the U.S. Treasury and, as of today, is well on its way to further supplement that amount through an additional offer to exchange common shares for retail capital securities, which is currently in progress. The additional capital will serve as a "buffer" in the event the U.S. economy worsens considerably through 2010. Throughout the current financial crisis, Key's capital ratios have remained in excess of the "well-capitalized" levels established by the federal regulators. At June 30, 2009, Key had a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 12.42% and a Tier 1 common equity ratio of 7.27%.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results
July 22, 2009
Page 2
     Meyer continued: "Key's fortified capital position will also enable us to support our clients' borrowing needs and benefit from other business opportunities when the economy recovers. During the second quarter, Key originated approximately $8.2 billion in new or renewed loans and commitments to consumers and businesses.
     "In conjunction with our efforts to improve Key's competitive position, late last year we initiated a process known as "Keyvolution," a corporate-wide initiative designed to build a consistently superior experience for clients, simplify processes, improve speed to market and enhance Key's ability to seize growth and profit opportunities," Meyer said. "Through this initiative, we expect to achieve annualized cost savings of $300 million to $375 million by 2012. Over the past fifteen months, we have been addressing certain noncore businesses, such as retail marine and private student lending activities. We have also deployed new teller platform technology throughout our company. These and other efforts have resulted in a reduction in our employee workforce of approximately 8%, or 1,500 positions, over the fifteen month period. Compared to the year-ago quarter, our personnel costs are down 6%.
     "Additionally, we have continued to build upon our relationship-based, client-focused business model. Our Community Banking business continues to benefit from these efforts as evidenced by a $2.7 billion, or 5%, increase in deposits compared to the second quarter of 2008."
     The following table shows Key's continuing and discontinued operating results for comparative quarters and for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2009 and 2008.
Results of Operations
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results
July 22, 2009
Page 3
     As shown in the following table, the comparability of Key's earnings for the current, prior and year-ago quarters is affected by several significant items.
Significant Items Affecting the Comparability of Earnings
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS
     Taxable-equivalent net interest income was $598 million for the second quarter of 2009 and the net interest margin was 2.67%. These results compare to taxable-equivalent net interest income of $738 million and a net interest margin of 3.32% for the second quarter of 2008, after adjusting for the effects of charges recorded one year ago in connection with subsequently resolved tax litigation pertaining to Key's leveraged lease financing portfolio. As previously reported, Key's taxable-equivalent net interest income for the second quarter of 2008 was reduced significantly as a result of an adverse federal court decision on the company's tax treatment of a service contract lease transaction. In accordance with the applicable accounting guidance, Key recalculated the lease income recognized from inception for all of the leveraged leases being contested by the Internal Revenue Service, not just the single leveraged lease subject to the Court decision. Key's results for the year-ago quarter also reflect a $475 million charge to income taxes for the interest cost associated with the contested tax liabilities. These actions reduced Key's taxable-equivalent net interest income and net interest margin for the second quarter of 2008 by $838 million and 376 basis points, respectively, and reduced Key's earnings by $1.011 billion, or $2.43 per common share.
     During the past twelve months, the net interest margin has remained under pressure as the decrease in the federal funds target rate has caused interest rates on earning assets to decline more rapidly than the rates paid for interest-bearing liabilities. Competition for deposits and a shift in deposit mix to higher costing, longer term certificates of deposit have also contributed to a lower net interest margin. During the same period, earning asset yields have been compressed as a result of the higher levels of nonperforming loans. In addition, during the second quarter of 2009, Key terminated certain leveraged lease financing arrangements, which reduced net interest income by $16 million and lowered the net interest margin by approximately 7 basis points.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results
July 22, 2009
Page 4
     Compared to the first quarter of 2009, taxable-equivalent net interest income decreased by $22 million, and the net interest margin was down 10 basis points. The reduction in the net interest margin reflects an increase in lower-yielding liquid assets, due in part to the weak demand for credit; a higher level of nonperforming loans; and the impact of actions described below to reposition Key's securities portfolio.
     During May 2009, Key sold approximately $2.8 billion of collateralized mortgage obligations ("CMOs"), resulting in net gains of $125 million for the second quarter. These securities were sold as part of the company's overall plan to generate additional capital required under the SCAP, and to reposition the securities available-for-sale portfolio to better support Key's strategies for managing interest rate and liquidity risk. The proceeds from the sale were reinvested in CMOs issued by government-sponsored entities or GNMA.
     The reduction in the net interest margin caused by the above factors was moderated by the impact of new or renewed loans with more favorable interest rate spreads.
     Key's noninterest income was $715 million for the second quarter of 2009, compared to $547 million for the year-ago quarter. The increase was attributable to three primary factors. In addition to the $125 million of net gains recorded in connection with the repositioning of the securities portfolio, in the current quarter Key recorded a $95 million gain related to the exchange of common shares for capital securities and a $32 million gain from the sale of Key's claim associated with the Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy. Additionally, net gains on leased equipment rose by $29 million, which more than offset the reduction to net interest income associated with the termination of lease financing arrangements. The increase attributable to the above factors was offset in part by a $63 million reduction in income from investment banking and capital markets activities, and net losses of $3 million from loan sales in the current quarter, compared to net gains of $33 million for the second quarter of 2008. Key also experienced lower income from trust and investment services, service charges on deposit accounts and operating leases.
     The major components of Key's fee-based income for the past five quarters are shown in the following table.
Fee-based Income  Major Components
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results July 22, 2009 Page 5
     Compared to the first quarter of 2009, noninterest income increased by $230 million, due primarily to the gains recorded during the second quarter of 2009 in connection with the repositioning of the securities portfolio, the exchange of common shares for capital securities and the sale of Key's claim associated with the Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy. Also contributing to the improvement was a $66 million decrease in net losses from principal investing and a $9 million increase in income from trust and investment services. Noninterest income for the first quarter of 2009 includes a $105 million gain from the sale of Visa Inc. shares.
     Key's noninterest expense was $870 million for the second quarter of 2009, compared to $777 million for the same period last year. Personnel expense decreased by $25 million as a result of lower incentive compensation accruals and a reduction in salaries expense caused by a 7% decline in the number of average full-time equivalent employees. These reductions were offset in part by an increase in severance expense and higher costs associated with employee benefits, primarily pension expense. The reduction in personnel expense was more than offset by a $118 million rise in nonpersonnel expense, due largely to a $68 million increase in the FDIC deposit insurance assessment. The higher assessment is a result of an across-the-board increase in the assessment rate that took effect during the first quarter of 2009 and a special assessment imposed during the second quarter of 2009, under which Key recorded $44 million of additional expense. Professional fees rose by $15 million due to increased collection efforts on loans, the outsourcing of certain services and the Keyvolution initiative. Additionally, Key recorded an $11 million provision for losses on lending-related commitments during the current quarter, compared to a $2 million credit for the second quarter of 2008.
     Compared to the first quarter of 2009, noninterest expense declined by $72 million. Personnel expense increased by $16 million, as increases in all major components were offset in part by a reduction in costs associated with employee benefits. Nonpersonnel expense decreased by $88 million from the prior quarter. Excluding the intangible assets impairment charge of $196 million recorded in the first quarter of 2009, nonpersonnel expense was up $108 million, due to increases in the FDIC deposit insurance assessment, professional fees, the provision for losses on lending-related commitments, expenses associated with other real estate owned ("OREO") and a variety of other miscellaneous expense components.
ASSET QUALITY
     Key's provision for loan losses was $850 million for the second quarter of 2009, compared to $647 million for the year-ago quarter and $875 million for the first quarter of 2009. Credit migration, particularly in the commercial real estate portfolio, continues to result in higher levels of net charge-offs and nonperforming loans, and more reserve building. Key's provision for loan losses for the second quarter of 2009 exceeded net loan charge-offs by $311 million. As a result, Key's allowance for loan losses rose to $2.5 billion, or 3.53% of total loans at June 30 2009, up from $2.2 billion, or 2.97% at March 31, 2009.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results July 22, 2009 Page 6
     Selected asset quality statistics for Key for each of the past five quarters are presented in the following table.
Selected Asset Quality Statistics
     Net loan charge-offs for the quarter totaled $539 million, or 2.99% of average loans. These results compare to $524 million, or 2.75%, for the same period last year and $492 million, or 2.65%, for the previous quarter. Key's net loan charge-offs by loan type for each of the past five quarters are shown in the following table.
Net Loan Charge-offs
     Compared to the first quarter of 2009, net loan charge-offs in the commercial loan portfolio rose by $35 million, due primarily to a $95 million rise in net charge-offs in the commercial mortgage and construction loan portfolios, offset in part by a $64 million reduction in the commercial and financial portfolio. The Real Estate Capital and Corporate Banking Services line of business within the National Banking group accounted for virtually all of the growth in net charge-offs in the commercial real estate portfolios and $46 million of the reduction in the commercial and financial portfolio. The level of net charge-offs in the consumer portfolio rose by $12 million, due to losses incurred in the home equity and education portfolios. As shown in the table on page 7, Key's exit loan portfolio accounted for $156 million, or 29%, of Key's total net loan charge-offs for the second quarter of 2009.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results July 22, 2009 Page 7
     At June 30, 2009, Key's nonperforming loans totaled $2.2 billion and represented 3.09% of period-end portfolio loans, compared to 2.36% at March 31, 2009, and 1.07% at June 30, 2008. Nonperforming assets at June 30, 2009, totaled $2.6 billion and represented 3.58% of portfolio loans, OREO and other nonperforming assets, compared to 2.70% at March 31, 2009, and 1.59% at June 30, 2008. The following table illustrates the trend in Key's nonperforming assets by loan type over the past five quarters.
Nonperforming Assets
     As shown in the preceding table, all categories of nonperforming assets experienced increases during the second quarter of 2009, compared to the prior quarter. Nonperforming loans in the commercial and financial, and commercial real estate portfolios experienced the largest increases. The increase in the commercial and financial portfolio reflects the impact of general weakness in the economic environment and was principally attributable to loans in the Equipment Finance, Institutional and Capital Markets, and Middle Market lines of business. The increase in the commercial real estate portfolio was caused in part by the continuation of deteriorating market conditions in both the residential properties and income properties segments. As shown in the following table, Key's exit loan portfolio accounted for $559 million, or 22%, of Key's total nonperforming assets at June 30, 2009, compared to $502 million, or 25%, at March 31, 2009.
     The composition of Key's exit loan portfolio at June 30, 2009, and March 31, 2009, the net charge-offs recorded on this portfolio for the second and first quarters of 2009, and the nonperforming status of these loans at June 30, 2009, and March 31, 2009, are shown in the following table.
Exit Loan Portfolio
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results July 22, 2009 Page 8
     Key's allowance for loan losses was $2.5 billion, or 3.53% of loans outstanding, at June 30, 2009, compared to $2.2 billion, or 2.97%, at March 31, 2009, and $1.4 billion, or 1.87%, at June 30, 2008. The company has continued to build its allowance for loan losses as the current credit cycle progresses, and at June 30, 2009, had a coverage ratio of 114%.
CAPITAL
     Key's risk-based capital ratios included in the following table continued to exceed all "well-capitalized" regulatory benchmarks at June 30, 2009.
Capital Ratios
     During the second quarter of 2009, Key successfully raised more than $1.8 billion in new Tier 1 common equity as required by the SCAP initiated by the U.S. Treasury Department and the federal banking regulators. The additional capital will serve as a "buffer" in the event the U.S. economy worsens considerably through 2010. As shown in the above table, at June 30, 2009, Key had a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 12.42%, a Tier 1 common equity ratio of 7.27%, and a tangible common equity ratio of 7.35%. On June 2, 2009, Key announced it had sold $1 billion of newly issued common stock through an at-the-market offering. In addition, Key has raised a significant portion of the additional Tier 1 common equity through the exchange of Key common shares for Key's Noncumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series A and for certain capital (i.e., trust preferred) securities. As a result of these exchange offers, Key will reduce its future dividend and interest obligations on the exchanged securities by approximately $70 million through the SCAP assessment period, which ends December 31, 2010.
     Although management believes Key has now complied with the requirements of the SCAP assessment, as it has generated additional Tier 1 common equity in excess of $1.8 billion, management intends to further augment Key's capital base. On July 8, 2009, KeyCorp commenced an offer to exchange (the "Trust Preferred Exchange Offer") Key common shares for any and all outstanding retail capital securities issued by a number of affiliated capital trusts. The Early Tender Period for the Trust Preferred Exchange Offer expired at 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on July 21, 2009, and will not be extended. The Final Tender Period and the Trust Preferred Exchange Offer will expire at 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on August 4, 2009 (unless we extend it or terminate it earlier). As of July 21, 2009, prior to the end of the Early Tender Period, holders of approximately $534 million aggregate liquidation preference of trust preferred securities had indicated that they would be tendering securities in the Trust Preferred Exchange Offer, subject to applicable withdrawal rights. As a result of the success of this exchange offer, management has made a determination to limit the total aggregate liquidation preference of trust preferred securities that it will accept in the Trust Preferred Exchange Offer to $500 million. The Trust Preferred Exchange Offer will be amended and disseminated accordingly, pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission rules.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results July 22, 2009 Page 9
     Transactions that caused the change in Key's outstanding common shares over the past five quarters are summarized in the following table.
Summary of Changes in Common Shares Outstanding
     During the second quarter of 2009, Key made a $31 million cash dividend payment to the U.S. Treasury Department. This is the second of such quarterly payments that Key has made after having raised $2.5 billion of additional capital during the fourth quarter of 2008 as a participant in the U.S. Treasury's Capital Purchase Program.
     On July 17, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $1.9375 per share of Key's 7.750% Series A Preferred Stock. The dividend is payable September 15, 2009, to shareholders of record on August 28, 2009. The Board also declared a cash dividend of $.01 per share on the company's common shares payable September 15, 2009, to shareholders of record on September 1, 2009.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results July 22, 2009 Page 10
LINE OF BUSINESS RESULTS
     The following table shows the contribution made by each major business group to Key's taxable-equivalent revenue from continuing operations and (loss) income from continuing operations attributable to Key for the periods presented. The specific lines of business that comprise each of the major business groups are described under the heading "Line of Business Descriptions." For more detailed financial information pertaining to each business group and its respective lines of business, see the tables at the end of this release.
Major Business Groups
TE = Taxable Equivalent, N/M = Not Meaningful
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results July 22, 2009 Page 11
Community Banking
TE = Taxable Equivalent, N/M = Not Meaningful
Additional Community Banking Data
Community Banking Summary of Operations
     Community Banking recorded a net loss attributable to Key of $57 million for the second quarter of 2009, compared to net income attributable to Key of $103 million for the year-ago quarter. Increases in the provision for loan losses and FDIC expense, coupled with decreases in net interest income and noninterest income, caused the decline.
     Taxable-equivalent net interest income declined by $36 million, or 8%, from the second quarter of 2008, due primarily to tighter loan spreads and a slight decline in the volume of average earning assets. While average deposits increased by $2.7 billion, or 5%, the composition and value of deposits have been impacted by the declining interest rate environment. Growth was centered in noninterest-bearing deposits and a shift from money market deposit accounts into higher-yielding certificates of deposit, reflecting consumer preferences.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results July 22, 2009 Page 12
     Noninterest income decreased by $26 million, or 12%, from the year-ago quarter, largely from declines in service charges on deposit accounts, trust and investment services income, and branch-based investment income, coupled with an increase in the reserve for credit losses from client derivatives. The reductions in service charges on deposit accounts, and trust and investment services income are the results of changing client behavior and lower levels of assets under management resulting from declining market conditions, respectively. These reductions were partially offset by higher mortgage loan sale gains.
     The provision for loan losses rose by $143 million compared to the second quarter of 2008, reflecting a $49 million increase in net loan charge-offs, primarily from the commercial and home equity loan portfolios. Community Banking's provision for loan losses for the second quarter of 2009 exceeded its net loan charge-offs by $100 million as the company continued to build reserves, in light of the challenging credit conditions brought on by a weak economy.
     Noninterest expense grew by $52 million, or 12%, from the year-ago quarter, as a result of a $52 million increase in the FDIC deposit insurance assessment. The higher assessment is a result of the across-the-board increase in the assessment rate that took effect during the first quarter of 2009 and the special assessment imposed during the second quarter of 2009. A decline in personnel expense, due primarily to a decrease in incentive compensation accruals and a reduction in the number of average full-time equivalent employees, was offset by increases in various other components of noninterest expense.
National Banking
TE = Taxable Equivalent, N/M = Not Meaningful
National Banking Summary of Continuing Operations
     National Banking recorded a loss from continuing operations attributable to Key of $294 million for the second quarter of 2009, compared to $674 million for the same period one year ago. During the second quarter of 2008, net results were reduced by $536 million as a result of an adverse federal court decision on the company's tax treatment of a segment of Key's leveraged lease financing portfolio. Excluding this charge, net results decreased by $156 million from the second quarter of 2008, due to lower net interest income and noninterest income, coupled with increases in the provision for loan losses and noninterest expense.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results July 22, 2009 Page 13
     As a result of the federal court decision, National Banking reduced its taxable-equivalent net interest income by $838 million during the second quarter of 2008. Excluding this charge, taxable-equivalent net interest income decreased by $85 million, or 23%, from the second quarter of 2008, due primarily to a decrease in average earning assets and a higher level of nonperforming loans, offset in part by more favorable deposit spreads and an increase in average deposits. Average earning assets decreased by $4.2 billion, or 8%, from the year-ago quarter, reflecting reductions in the commercial, home equity and held-for-sale loan portfolios. Average deposits rose by $1 billion, or 8%, as growth in certificates of deposit, NOW accounts and noninterest-bearing deposits more than offset a decline in money market deposit accounts.
     Noninterest income declined by $73 million, or 22%, from the second quarter of 2008, due primarily to a $60 million reduction in income from investment banking and capital markets activities, which was largely attributable to a $27 million decrease in dealer trading and derivatives income and a $23 million decrease in investment banking income. A decline in net loan sale gains of $37 million also contributed to the reduction in noninterest income. The adverse effect of the above factors was offset in part by a $29 million increase in gains on leased equipment and a $15 million increase in mortgage fees.
     The provision for loan losses rose by $53 million. National Banking's provision for loan losses for the second quarter of 2009 exceeded its net loan charge-offs by $210 million as the company continued to build reserves in a weak economy.
     Noninterest expense grew by $23 million, or 7%, from the second quarter of 2008, reflecting an increase in the FDIC deposit insurance assessment as a result of the same factors that contributed to the increase in Community Banking. Also contributing to higher noninterest expense was an increase in the reserve for low-income housing tax credit funds, a provision for losses on lending-related commitments compared to a credit in the year-ago quarter, and higher expenses associated with OREO. The adverse effect of these factors was offset in part by lower personnel expense, reflecting a reduction in incentive compensation accruals and a decrease in the number of average full-time equivalent employees.
     In April 2009, Key made the strategic decision to curtail the operations of Austin Capital Management, Ltd., an investment subsidiary that specializes in managing hedge fund investments for its institutional customer base. As a result of this decision, Key has accounted for this business as a discontinued operation.
Other Segments
     Other Segments consist of Corporate Treasury and Key's Principal Investing unit. These segments generated net income attributable to Key of $112 million for the second quarter of 2009, compared to a net loss attributable to Key of $14 million for the same period last year. The improvement was attributable to net gains of $125 million recorded during the second quarter of 2009 in connection with the repositioning of the securities portfolio, and a $95 million gain related to the exchange of Key common shares for capital securities.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results July 22, 2009 Page 14
Line of Business Descriptions
Community Banking
provides individuals with branch-based deposit and investment products, personal finance services and loans, including residential mortgages, home equity and various types of installment loans. This line of business also provides small businesses with deposit, investment and credit products, and business advisory services.
Regional Banking
Regional Banking also offers financial, estate and retirement planning, and asset management services to assist high-net-worth clients with their banking, trust, portfolio management, insurance, charitable giving and related needs.
provides midsize businesses with products and services that include commercial lending, cash management, equipment leasing, investment and employee benefit programs, succession planning, access to capital markets, derivatives and foreign exchange.
Commercial Banking
National Banking
consists of two business units, Real Estate Capital and Corporate Banking Services.
Real Estate Capital and Corporate Banking Services
Real Estate Capital is a national business that provides construction and interim lending, permanent debt placements and servicing, equity and investment banking, and other commercial banking products and services to developers, brokers and owner-investors. This unit deals primarily with nonowner-occupied properties (i.e., generally properties in which at least 50% of the debt service is provided by rental income from nonaffiliated third parties). Real Estate Capital emphasizes providing clients with finance solutions through access to the capital markets.
Corporate Banking Services provides cash management, interest rate derivatives, and foreign exchange products and services to clients served by both the Community Banking and National Banking groups. Through its Public Sector and Financial Institutions businesses, Corporate Banking Services also provides a full array of commercial banking products and services to government and not-for-profit entities, and to community banks.
meets the equipment leasing needs of companies worldwide and provides equipment manufacturers, distributors and resellers with financing options for their clients. Lease financing receivables and related revenues are assigned to other lines of business (primarily Institutional and Capital Markets, and Commercial Banking) if those businesses are principally responsible for maintaining the relationship with the client.
Equipment Finance
through its KeyBanc Capital Markets unit, provides commercial lending, treasury management, investment banking, derivatives, foreign exchange, equity and debt underwriting and trading, and syndicated finance products and services to large corporations and middle-market companies.
Institutional and Capital Markets,
Through its Victory Capital Management unit, Institutional and Capital Markets also manages or offers advice regarding investment portfolios for a national client base, including corporations, labor unions, not-for-profit organizations, governments and individuals. These portfolios may be managed in separate accounts, common funds or the Victory family of mutual funds.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results July 22, 2009 Page 15
provides government-guaranteed education loans to students and their parents, and processes tuition payments for private schools. Through its Commercial Floor Plan Lending unit, this line of business also finances inventory for automobile dealers. In October 2008, Key exited retail and floor-plan lending for marine and recreational vehicle products, and began to limit new education loans to those backed by government guarantee. The Consumer Finance line of business continues to service existing loans in these portfolios and to honor existing education loan commitments. These actions are consistent with Key's strategy of de-emphasizing nonrelationship or out-of-footprint businesses.
Consumer Finance
Morgan Stanley is the sole arranger and lead manager for the Trust Preferred Exchange Offer, and Morgan Stanley, UBS Investment Bank, Citi and Wells Fargo Securities are acting as dealer managers. In addition, Morgan Stanley is KeyCorp's capital advisor on all of its capital execution plans related to the SCAP. The complete terms and conditions of the Trust Preferred Exchange Offer are set forth in the Prospectus and letter of transmittal that are being sent to holders of the Trust Preferred Securities. Holders are urged to read the Trust Preferred Exchange Offer documents carefully. This press release is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation to buy any shares of the securities, nor is it a solicitation for acceptance of the exchange offer. KeyCorp is making the exchange offer only by, and pursuant to the terms of, the Prospectus and the related letter of transmittal. The Trust Preferred Exchange Offer is not being made in any jurisdiction in which the making or acceptance thereof would not be in compliance with the securities, blue sky or other laws of such jurisdiction. None of KeyCorp or its affiliates, the trustees of the capital trusts, the exchange agent, the information agent, the financial advisors or the capital advisor is making any recommendation as to whether or not holders should tender their Trust Preferred Securities in connection with the Trust Preferred Exchange Offer.
Copies of the Prospectus and letter of transmittal may also be obtained from , the information agent at or, for bankers and brokers, at (Collect). The Exchange Agent for the Trust Preferred Exchange Offer is Computershare Trust Company, N.A., available at (781) 575-2332. KeyCorp has filed a registration statement (including the Prospectus) for this Trust Preferred Exchange Offer with the Securities and Exchange Commission (""). Before you invest you should read the Prospectus in the registration statement and other documents that KeyCorp has filed with the SEC for more complete information about KeyCorp and the Trust Preferred Exchange Offer. You may obtain these documents for free at the SEC's website, . You may also obtain these documents by contacting KeyCorp, Investor Relations, at (216) 689-4221 or by email at .
D.F. King & Co., Inc.
(800) 431-9633
(212) 269-5550
SEC
www.sec.gov
KeyCorp_Capital_Exchange@KeyBank.com
     Cleveland-based KeyCorp is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, with assets of $97.8 billion at June 30, 2009. Key companies provide investment management, retail and commercial banking, consumer finance, and investment banking products and services to individuals and companies throughout the United States and, for certain businesses, internationally. The company's businesses deliver their products and services through 993 branches and additional offices; a network of 1,485 ATMs; telephone banking centers (1.800.KEY2YOU); and a Web site, ,that provides account access and financial products 24 hours a day.
https://www.key.com/
Notes to Editors:
A live Internet broadcast of KeyCorp's conference call to discuss quarterly results and currently anticipated earnings trends and to answer analysts' questions can be accessed through the Investor Relations section at
https://www.key.com/ir
at 9:00 a.m. ET, on Wednesday, July 22, 2009. An audio replay of the call will be available through July 29.
.
For up-to-date company information, media contacts and facts and figures about Key's lines of business visit our Media Newsroom at
https://www
.
key.com/newsroom
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results July 22, 2009 Page 16
This earnings release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements about Key's financial condition, results of operations, earnings outlook, asset quality trends and profitability. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts but instead represent only management's current expectations and forecasts regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside of Key's control. Key's actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially include, among other things: (1) adverse capital market conditions and the ability to raise equity and other funding required by the banking regulators or otherwise; (2) further downgrades in Key's credit ratings; (3) unprecedented volatility in the stock markets, public debt markets and other capital markets, including continued disruption in the fixed income markets; (4) potential misinterpretation of the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program ("SCAP") or Key's efforts to raise the required capital could affect Key's ability to attract and retain customers and compete for new business opportunities; (5) changes in interest rates; (6) changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policy; (7) changes in foreign exchange rates, equity markets and the financial soundness of other unrelated financial companies; (8) asset price deterioration. which has had (and may continue to have) a negative effect on the valuation of certain asset categories represented on Key's balance sheet; (9) continuation of the recent deterioration in general economic conditions, or in the condition of the local economies or industries in which Key has significant operations or assets, which could, among other things, materially impact credit quality trends and Key's ability to generate loans; (10) continued disruption in the housing markets and related conditions in the financial markets; (11) increased competitive pressure among financial services companies due to the consolidation of competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies; (12) heightened legal standards and regulatory practices, requirements or expectations; (13) the inability to successfully execute strategic initiatives designed to grow revenues and/or manage expenses; (14) increased FDIC deposit insurance premiums; (15) difficulty in attracting and/or retaining executives and/or relationship managers; (16) consummation of significant business combinations or divestitures; (17) operational or risk management failures due to technological or other factors; (18) changes in accounting or tax practices or requirements; (19) new legal obligations or liabilities or unfavorable resolution of litigation; and (20) disruption in the economy and general business climate as a result of terrorist activities or military actions.
For additional information on KeyCorp and the factors that could cause actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements consult KeyCorp's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission available on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (www.sec.gov). Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and should not be relied upon as representing management's views as of any subsequent date. Key does not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results
July 22, 2009
Page 17
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results
July 22, 2009
Page 18
TE = Taxable Equivalent, GAAP = U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results
July 22, 2009
Page 19
The table below presents certain earnings data and performance ratios, excluding charges related to intangible assets impairment, and the tax treatment of certain leveraged lease financing transactions disallowed by the Internal Revenue Service. Management believes that eliminating the effects of significant items that are generally nonrecurring facilitates the analysis of results by presenting them on a more comparable basis.
The table also shows the computations of certain financial measures related to "tangible common equity" and "Tier 1 common equity." The tangible common equity ratio has become a focus of some investors and management believes that this ratio may assist investors in analyzing Key's capital position absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulators have assessed a bank's capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. As a result of the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program, these same regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Key's capital adequacy using the tangible common equity and/or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Key's capital adequacy using tangible common equity and Tier 1 common equity, management believes it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Key's capital adequacy on these same bases. The table also reconciles the GAAP performance measures to the corresponding non-GAAP measures.
Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. To mitigate these limitations, Key has procedures in place to ensure that these measures are calculated using the appropriate GAAP or regulatory components and to ensure that Key's performance is properly reflected to facilitate period-to-period comparisons. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by investors in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP.
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results
July 22, 2009
Page 20
 
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results
July 22, 2009
Page 21
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results
July 22, 2009
Page 22
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results
July 22, 2009
Page 23
Average balances have not been restated to reflect Key's January 1, 2008, adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 39, "Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts," and FASB Staff Position FIN 39-1, "Amendment of FASB Interpretation 39."
TE = Taxable Equivalent, GAAP = U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results
July 22, 2009
Page 24
Average balances have not been restated to reflect Key's January 1, 2008, adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 39, "Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts," and FASB Staff Position FIN 39-1, "Amendment of FASB Interpretation 39."
TE = Taxable Equivalent, GAAP = U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results
July 22, 2009
Page 25
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results
July 22, 2009
Page 26
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results July 22, 2009 Page 27
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results July 22, 2009 Page 28
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results July 22, 2009 Page 29
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results July 22, 2009 Page 30
Community Banking
 
KeyCorp Reports Second Quarter 2009 Results
July 22, 2009
Page 31
National Banking

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


