FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20090921162517.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
     On September 17, 2009, KeyCorp elected Ruth Ann M. Gillis, Executive Vice President of Exelon Corporation, and Joseph A. Carrabba, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer of Cliffs Natural Resources, Inc., as Directors of the Corporation, effective November 18, 2009. The election of Ms. Gillis and Mr. Carrabba increases the size of KeyCorp's Board of Directors to 14 members. Ms. Gillis will serve as a member of the KeyCorp Audit Committee and Mr. Carrabba will serve as a member of the KeyCorp Compensation and Organization Committee. As is true for all "outside" KeyCorp Directors, Ms. Gillis and Mr. Carrabba will be entitled to an annual award under the KeyCorp Directors' Deferred Share Plan each July, as well as quarterly and per meeting director fees. A copy of the press release announcing the elections is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CLEVELAND, Sept. 21, 2009  KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY) announced today that Ruth Ann M. Gillis and Joseph A. Carrabba have been elected to KeyCorp's Board of Directors, effective Nov. 18, 2009.
     Gillis is Executive Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer of Exelon Corporation (NYSE: EXC) which distributes electricity to customers in northern Illinois (including Chicago) and southeastern Pennsylvania (including Philadelphia) through subsidiaries Commonwealth Edison and PECO Energy; the company also owns one of the nation's largest nuclear generating fleets.
     Carrabba is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Cliffs Natural Resources, Inc. (NYSE: CLF) (Paris: CLF), an international mining and natural resources company. Cliffs is the largest producer of iron ore pellets in North America, a major supplier of iron ore out of Australia, and a significant producer of metallurgical coal.
     "We are delighted to have Ruth Ann and Joe join the Key board," said Henry L. Meyer III, KeyCorp chairman and chief executive officer. "Their insights and experience in critical industries, and skills in leading major companies through change will be invaluable."
     The elections increase the size of KeyCorp's Board of Directors to 14 members.
 
ADD ONE  GILLIS, CARRABBA JOIN KEYCORP BOARD OF DIRECTORS
     Gillis currently serves as President of Exelon Business Services Company, which includes Exelon's Human Resources, Supply, Legal, Finance, Government Affairs and Communications groups, among others. Prior to that, she was Chief Financial Officer and held other leadership positions at Exelon and predecessor company Unicom Corporation, which she joined in 1997 as Vice President and Treasurer. Gillis began her career in banking and corporate finance, spending nearly 18 years at First Chicago Corporation (now JPMorgan Chase). Gillis holds a bachelor's degree in economics from Smith College, and an MBA from the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business with a concentration in finance. She has been an active member of the University of Chicago Cancer Research Foundation Women's Board, and is the president of the foundation's Board of Trustees. Gillis also serves on the boards of Chicago's Goodman Theatre and the Lyric Opera of Chicago, and is a director for the Potlatch Corporation.
     Carrabba joined Cliffs in 2005 as President and Chief Operating Officer. Prior to joining Cliffs, Mr. Carrabba was President and Chief Operating Officer of Diavik Diamond Mines, a wholly owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto plc, one of the world's leading mining and exploration companies, where he served for 22 years in a variety of leadership capacities at locations around the world including the United States, Asia, Australia, Canada and Europe. An Ohio native, Carrabba holds a bachelor's degree in geology from Capital University and an MBA from Frostburg State University in Maryland. He serves on the boards of Newmont Mining Corporation and Cleveland's University Hospitals.
     Cleveland-based KeyCorp is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, with assets of approximately $98 billion. Magazine named Key the top bank in its Customer Service Champ 2009 edition, ranking Key 11th out of the top-25 companies that include many known for their customer service acumen. Key companies provide investment management, retail and commercial banking, consumer finance, and investment banking products and services to individuals and companies throughout the United States and, for certain businesses, internationally. For more information, visit .
BusinessWeek
https://www.key.com/
Note to Editors: For up-to-date company information, media contacts and facts and figures about Key lines of business, visit to view our Media Newsroom.
http://key.com/newsroom


