FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20090603081749.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     On June 2, 2009, KeyCorp (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the increase of the aggregate gross sales amount of its Common Shares, par value $1.00 per share ("Common Shares"), to be sold pursuant to its previously announced "at the market" offering, and filed an addendum to its previously filed prospectus supplement to its existing automatic shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") in connection with the increase of the offering. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated by reference herein.
     Common Shares issued under the program will be sold pursuant to an Equity Distribution Agreement, dated May 11, 2009, with Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated ("Morgan Stanley"), which was amended by an Amendment No. 1 to the Equity Distribution Agreement, dated June 2, 2009 (the "Amendment" and, with the Equity Distribution Agreement as amended by the Amendment, the "Agreement"). The sole purpose of the Amendment was to increase the aggregate offering price of the Common Shares that may be offered and sold pursuant to the Agreement from $750,000,000 to $1,000,000,000.
     Further details regarding the terms of the Agreement are set forth in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K that was filed with the Commission on May 11, 2009, which is incorporated herein by reference.
     Exhibits 5.1 and 23.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K are filed herewith in connection with the Company's Registration Statement and are incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 5.1
KeyCorp 127 Public Square Cleveland, Ohio 44114-1306
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     We have acted as counsel to KeyCorp, an Ohio corporation (the ""), in connection with a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-151608) (the "") filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") relating to the offering and sale from time to time of the Company's common shares, $1.00 par value (the ""), having an aggregate gross sales price of up to $1,000,000,000 (the ""), by Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, as sales agent and/or principal (the ""), pursuant to the Equity Distribution Agreement, dated May 11, 2009, as amended as of the date hereof (the ""), between the Company and the Manager.
Company
Registration Statement
Commission
Common Shares
Shares
Manager
Distribution Agreement
     The Common Shares may be issued and sold or delivered from time to time as set forth in the Registration Statement, the prospectus contained therein (the ""), the prospectus supplement filed by the Company with the Commission on May 11, 2009, the addendum thereto filed by the Company on June 2, 2009, and any amendments or supplements thereto.
Prospectus
     We have examined such documents, including the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company (together, the ""), and have reviewed such questions of law, as we have considered necessary and appropriate for the purposes of our opinion set forth below. In rendering our opinions set forth below, we have assumed the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the genuineness of all signatures and the conformity to authentic originals of all documents submitted to us as copies.
Resolutions
     We have also assumed the legal capacity for all purposes relevant hereto of all natural persons and, with respect to all parties to agreements or instruments relevant hereto other than the Company, that such parties had the requisite power and authority (corporate or otherwise) to execute, deliver and perform such agreements or instruments, that such agreements or instruments have been duly authorized by all requisite action (corporate or otherwise), executed and delivered by such parties and that such agreements or instruments are the valid, binding and enforceable obligations of such parties. As to questions of fact material to our opinion, we have
 
KeyCorp June 2, 2009 Page 2
relied upon certificates of officers of the Company and of public officials. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in each form incorporated by reference as exhibits to the Registration Statement.
     Based on the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the Shares previously issued and delivered in accordance with the terms of the Distribution Agreement have been fully authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable, and the Shares to be sold, when issued, delivered and paid for in accordance with the terms of the Distribution Agreement, will be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable.
     In rendering the opinions set forth above, we have assumed that, at the time of the delivery of the Shares, the Resolutions referred to above will not have been modified or rescinded, there will not have occurred any change in the law affecting the authorization, execution, delivery, validity or enforceability of the Shares, the Registration Statement will continue to be effective, none of the particular terms of the Shares will violate any applicable law and neither the issuance and sale thereof nor the compliance by the Company with the terms thereof will result in a violation of any agreement or instrument then binding upon the Company or any order of any court or governmental body having jurisdiction over the Company.
     Our opinions expressed above are limited to the laws of the States of New York and Ohio and the federal laws of the United States of America.
     We hereby consent to your filing this opinion as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 2, 2009, which is incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and to the reference to our firm under the caption "Validity of Securities" contained in the Prospectus included therein.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Squire, Sanders & Dempsey L.L.P.

Exhibit 99.1
 
June 2, 2009
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
1585 Broadway New York, New York 10036
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Reference is hereby made to that certain Equity Distribution Agreement, dated May 11, 2009 (the "Equity Distribution Agreement"), between KeyCorp, and Ohio corporation (the "Company"), and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, as sales agent and/or principal (the "Manager").
     Pursuant to the Distribution Agreement, the Company proposed to issue and sell through or to the Manager, as sales agent and/or principal, on the terms set forth in the Equity Distribution Agreement, its common shares, par value $1.00 per share, having an aggregate gross sales price of up to $750,000,000 (the "Aggregate Limit"). The Company and the Manager agree that the Equity Distribution Agreement be hereby amended to increase the Aggregate Limit to $1,000,000,000 for any and all purposes under the Distribution Agreement.
     Except for the foregoing amendment, the other provisions of the Equity Distribution Agreement will continue to be in full force and effect. Paragraphs 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 of the Distribution Agreement are incorporated into this Amendment No. 1 to the Equity Distribution Agreement .
mutatis mutandis
     If the foregoing accurately reflects your understanding and agreement, please acknowledge the same in the space provided below and return an executed copy of this Amendment No. 1 to the Equity Distribution Agreement to us at your convenience.
 

Exhibit 99.2
CLEVELAND, June 2, 2009  KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY) today announced it has increased the aggregate gross sales price of the common shares to be sold in connection with its previously announced "at-the-market" offering from $750 million to $1.0 billion and that it has successfully issued all $1.0 billion in new common shares.
     Upon completion of the offering, Key will have issued 205,438,975 shares at an average price of $4.87 per share.
     With the completion of this offering, KeyCorp will have raised approximately $1.3 billion of $1.8 billion in additional common equity as it moves to adjust its capital mix as required by the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP) buffer set by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and Federal banking regulators. The $1.3 billion total includes exchanges of approximately $154 million of its Series A Convertible Preferred Stock for its common shares and the sale of select securities and assets providing approximately $127 million in common equity.
     Key currently anticipates that further exchanges of its Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and trust preferred securities for its common shares, together with additional securities and other asset sales, will fund the balance of the $1.8 billion.
     "We are pleased to have completed this significant portion of our capital activities," said Henry L. Meyer III, KeyCorp chief executive officer. "We'll focus now on completing the remaining capital activities which will fortify Key should the economy deteriorate later this year and these conditions persist through 2010. It is our intention to be in a position to repay the TARP Capital Purchase Program investment as promptly as permitted."
 
     Cleveland-based KeyCorp is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, with assets of approximately $97 billion. Magazine named Key the top bank in its Customer Service Champ 2009 edition, ranking Key 11th out of the top-25 companies that include many known for their customer service acumen. Key companies provide investment management, retail and commercial banking, consumer finance, and investment banking products and services to individuals and companies throughout the United States and, for certain businesses, internationally. For more information, visit
BusinessWeek
https://www.key.com/.
KeyCorp has filed registration statements (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offerings to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the company has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the company and this offering. You may obtain these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at . Alternatively, KeyCorp or the sales agent will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by contacting KeyCorp, Investor Relations, at 216 689-4221 or Morgan Stanley at 866 718-1649.
www.sec.gov
 
This Press Release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements about our financial condition, results of operations, asset quality trends and profitability. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts but instead represent only management's current expectations and forecasts regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside of KeyCorp's control. KeyCorp's actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially include, among other things: (1) adverse capital markets conditions and the inability to raise equity and other funding in the capital markets; (2) further downgrades in our credit ratings; (3) unprecedented volatility in the stock markets, public debt markets and other capital markets, including continued disruption in the fixed income markets;(4) changes in interest rates; (5) changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policy; (6) asset price deterioration has had (and may continue to have) a negative effect on the valuation of certain asset categories represented on KeyCorp's balance sheet; (7) continuation of the recent deterioration in general economic conditions, or in the condition of the local economies or industries in which we have significant operations or assets, which could, among other things, materially impact credit quality trends and our ability to generate loans; (8) continued disruption in the housing markets and related conditions in the financial markets; (9) increased competitive pressure among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies; (10) heightened legal standards and regulatory practices, requirements or expectations; (11) the inability to successfully execute strategic initiatives designed to grow revenues and/or manage expenses; (12) increased FDIC deposit insurance premiums; (13) difficulty in attracting and/or retaining key executives and/or relationship managers; (14) consummation of significant business combinations or divestitures; (15) operational or risk management failures due to technological or other factors; (16) changes in accounting or tax practices or requirements; (17) new legal obligations or liabilities or unfavorable resolution of litigation; and (18) disruption in the economy and general business climate as a result of terrorist activities or military actions.
For additional information on KeyCorp and the factors that could cause KeyCorp's actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements consult KeyCorp's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission available on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (). Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and should not be relied upon as representing management's views as of any subsequent date. We do not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
www.sec.gov
Note to Editors: For up-to-date company information, media contacts and facts and figures about Key lines of business, visit to view our Media Newsroom.
http://key.com/newsroom


