FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20100715093618.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
     On July 14, 2010, the Board of Directors of KeyCorp elected Barbara R. Snyder, as Director of the Corporation, effective immediately. Ms. Snyder is president of Case Western Reserve University, a post she assumed on July 1, 2007, following four years as Executive Vice President and Provost of The Ohio State University.
     The election of Ms. Snyder increases the size of KeyCorp's Board of Directors to 16 members. Ms. Snyder has been assigned to the Risk Management Committee of the Board. As with all "outside" KeyCorp Directors, Ms. Snyder will be entitled to an annual award under the KeyCorp Directors' Deferred Share Plan, as well as quarterly and per meeting director fees.
     A copy of the press release announcing the election is "furnished" as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02. Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section. Furthermore, the information contained in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing of KeyCorp under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CLEVELAND, July 15, 2010  KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY) announced today that Barbara R. Snyder has been elected to KeyCorp's Board of Directors.
     Snyder is president of Case Western Reserve University, a post she assumed on July 1, 2007 following four years as Executive Vice President and Provost of The Ohio State University. Earlier she was Vice Provost for Academic Policy and Human Resources at OSU. She served as a faculty member of the university's Moritz College of Law from 1988 to 2007. From 2000 to 2007, she held the Joanne W. Murphy / Classes of 1965 and 1973 Professorship at OSU. Snyder began her academic career in 1983 as an assistant professor at Case Western Reserve's School of Law
     "Barbara Snyder will be a significant contributor on our Board," said Henry L. Meyer III, KeyCorp chairman and chief executive officer. "She brings considerable and distinguished experience in leadership at two major institutions of higher learning and research. Her relationships and perspective on the healthcare and bioresearch industries, and the Cleveland community, will be invaluable."
     The election increases the size of KeyCorp's Board of Directors to 16 members.
 
     Snyder currently serves as a board member or trustee of BioEnterprise, Northeast Ohio Technology Coalition, Greater Cleveland Partnership, University Circle Inc., Musical Arts Association (Cleveland Orchestra), the Ohio Third Frontier Advisory Board, and the Northeast Ohio Council on Higher Education. She served as BioEnterprise board chair from May 2008 to May 2009.
     A graduate of the University of Chicago Law School, Snyder holds a bachelor's degree from Ohio State. She began her career as an associate in the Chicago law firm of Sidley & Austin.
     Cleveland-based KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY) is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, with assets of approximately $95 billion at March 31, 2010. Key companies provide investment management, retail and commercial banking, consumer finance, and investment banking products and services to individuals and companies throughout the United States and, for certain businesses, internationally. For more information, visit https://www.key.com/.
Note to Editors: For up-to-date company information, media contacts and facts and figures about Key lines of business, visit to view our Media Newsroom.
http://key.com/newsroom


