FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20100316163022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
     On March 11, 2010, the KeyCorp Board of Directors elected Christopher M. Gorman as a Senior Executive Vice President and Head of KeyCorp's National Banking business. Mr. Gorman, age 49, previously was an Executive Vice President of KeyCorp (since 2002) and served as President of the Company's KeyBanc Capital Markets business (since 2003). Mr. Gorman participates, and will continue to participate in, the KeyCorp 401(k) Savings Plan, the KeyCorp Deferred Savings Plan, and he is eligible to receive KeyCorp long term restricted stock grants.
     A copy of the press release announcing the election is "furnished" as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02. Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section. Furthermore, the information contained in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing of KeyCorp under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
News
KEY MEDIA NEWSROOM: Key.com/newsroom
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
KeyCorp 127 Public Square Cleveland, Ohio 44114
CLEVELAND, OHIO, March 16, 2010  KeyCorp has promoted Christopher M. Gorman to senior executive vice president and head of its National Banking business. He will also become vice chairman of KeyBank National Association.
In his expanded role, Gorman is responsible for Key's corporate, investment banking, capital markets, commercial real estate and equipment finance businesses. He reports to KeyCorp Chairman and CEO Henry L. Meyer III and will be a member of KeyCorp's Management Committee.
Gorman, who was previously president of KeyBanc Capital Markets, was instrumental in successfully integrating Key's corporate and investment banking businesses, something that few other banks have done successfully. He has 27 years of experience working with large corporations and middle market companies. He joined Key in 1991.
"Chris' breadth of experience, business acumen and proven leadership abilities make him ideally suited for this new assignment," Meyer said. "We're fortunate to have the depth of talent here at Key to promote from within to fill this important position."
He holds a Bachelor's Degree in Finance from Miami University (1983) and currently serves on the university's Business Advisory Council. He is actively involved in various charities and not-for-profit organizations, including serving as past chairman of the KeyCorp United Way Campaign; board member, Business Volunteers Unlimited; president, Key Foundation; Cleveland Zoological Society; Hathaway Brown School and MWV Pinnacle Capital Fund, L.P.
About KeyCorp
Cleveland-based KeyCorp is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, with assets of approximately $94 billion. Key companies provide investment management, retail and commercial banking, consumer finance, and investment banking products and services to individuals and companies throughout the United States and, for certain businesses, internationally. For more information, visit .
https://www.key.com/


