FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20100524171609.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
KeyCorp held its 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 20, 2010, at One Cleveland Center, Cleveland, Ohio. Henry L. Meyer, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, presided. At the meeting, shareholders elected all eleven of the directors nominated by the Board of Directors and ratified the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as our independent auditors for 2010. Each director received a greater number of votes cast "for" his or her election than votes cast against his or her election as stated below. The shareholders also approved the 2010 KeyCorp Equity Compensation Plan. The management proposal to amend the Articles and Regulations to conform the voting rights of the Series B Preferred Stock issued to the United States Department of the Treasury (the "U.S. Treasury") with the standard terms mandated by the U.S. Treasury under the Troubled Assets Relief Program, Capital Purchase Program, failed because the requisite number of votes for approval were not received from the Series A Preferred Stock holders.
Issue One  Election of Directors
Our shareholders elected eleven individuals to our Board of Directors as set forth below.
Issue Two  Approval of the 2010 KeyCorp Equity Compensation Plan
Our shareholders approved the 2010 KeyCorp Equity Compensation Plan as set forth below.
 
Issue Three  Amendment to Articles and Regulations Concerning the Voting Rights of the Series B Preferred Stock
This issue requires receipt of (i) the affirmative vote of the holders of the Common Shares entitling them to exercise a majority of the voting power of such shares, (ii) the affirmative vote of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock of KeyCorp entitling them to exercise two-thirds of the voting power of such shares, and (iii) the affirmative vote of the holder of the Series B Preferred Stock entitling it to exercise two-thirds of the voting power of such shares. Although the requisite number of votes was received from the common shareholders and the Series B Preferred Stock holder, less than two-thirds of the voting power of the Series A Preferred Stock voted to approve this issue, and accordingly it failed.
Issue Four  Ratification of Ernst & Young LLP as independent auditors for 2010
Issue Five  Advisory Approval of KeyCorp Executive Compensation Program
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


