FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20100421084909.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
8-K  FORM 8-K EARNINGS RELEASE
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
.
     On April 21, 2010, KeyCorp issued a press release announcing its financial results for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 (the "Press Release"). The Press Release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.
     The information in the preceding paragraph, as well as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 referenced therein, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act").
     KeyCorp's Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Income (the "Financial Statements"), included as part of the Press Release, are attached as Exhibit 99.3 to this report and incorporated by reference herein. Exhibit 99.3 is "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act and, therefore, may be incorporated by reference in filings under the Securities Act.
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure
.
     On April 21, 2010, KeyCorp held a conference call and webcast to facilitate a discussion of its financial condition at March 31, 2010, and its financial results for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010. The Supplemental Information Package reviewed by KeyCorp during the conference call and webcast is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference in this Item 7.01. All information in the Supplemental Information Package is presented as of the particular dates or for the periods referenced therein, and KeyCorp does not undertake any obligation to, and disclaims any duty to, update any of the information provided.
     The information in the preceding paragraph, as well as Exhibit 99.2 referenced therein, is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section. Furthermore, the information contained in Exhibit 99.2 shall not be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing of KeyCorp under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)     
Exhibits
The following exhibits are furnished, or filed in the case of Exhibit 99.3, herewith:
     
Forward-Looking Statements.
This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements about Key's financial condition, results of operations, earnings outlook, asset quality trends and profitability. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts but instead represent only management's current expectations and forecasts regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside of Key's control. Key's actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause Key's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in Key's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2009, which has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is available on Key's website () and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (). Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and should not be relied upon as representing management's views as of any subsequent date. Key does not undertake any obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the date of the forward-looking statements.
www.key.com
www.sec.gov
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, KeyCorp has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     CLEVELAND, April 21, 2010  KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY) today announced a first quarter net loss from continuing operations attributable to Key common shareholders of $98 million, or $.11 per common share. These results compare to a net loss from continuing operations attributable to Key common shareholders of $507 million, or $1.03 per common share, for the first quarter of 2009. The first quarter of 2009 was negatively impacted by an $847 million loan loss provision and a $196 million ($164 million after tax) intangible assets impairment charge.
     A lower provision for loan losses and continued expense control resulted in a narrowing of Key's first-quarter loss when compared to the fourth quarter of 2009. Net charge-offs declined by $186 million, and nonperforming loans showed continued improvement decreasing by $122 million from December 31, 2009. Key also experienced reduced expenses due to lower personnel expense and efficiency initiative efforts as well as a decrease in the provision for losses on lending-related commitments.
     "These results are encouraging and reflect our persistent focus over recent quarters to ensure that Key emerges strong and ready to grow as the economic recovery continues to take hold," said Chief Executive Officer Henry L. Meyer III. "Particularly notable in the results is the improvement in net interest margin, a decrease in nonperforming loans for the second quarter in a row, and good expense control."
     Meyer continued: "We are positioning Key for an improving economy. We have reduced our risk, continue to emphasize our core relationship businesses, and our balance sheet reflects strong capital, liquidity and loan loss reserve levels."
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 2
     At March 31, 2010, Key's estimated Tier 1 common equity and Tier 1 risk-based capital ratios were 7.53% and 12.96%, respectively.
     The Company originated approximately $5.3 billion in new or renewed lending commitments to consumers and businesses during the quarter.
     Key continues to invest in its relationship businesses, including its 14-state branch network. Meyer noted that Key opened eight new branches in the first quarter, expects to open an additional 32 new branches during the remainder of 2010, and continues to modernize its existing branches. The new and modernized branches underscore Key's relationship strategy by leveraging its branch network to offer the full breadth of solutions, expertise, services and products that Key has to offer. Additionally, Key received recognition from Corporate Insight's 2009 Bank Monitor which highlights firms that excel in key areas of the online banking experience. Key had previously been named a Customer Service Champion by in its March 2009 edition. The Company is positioning its branch and online capabilities to enhance growth as the economy turns.
BusinessWeek
     During the quarter, Christopher M. Gorman was promoted to senior executive vice president and head of Key's National Banking business. He also became vice chairman of KeyBank National Association. Mr. Gorman has been with Key for the past 19 years and was most recently president of KeyBanc Capital Markets. In his new role, Gorman is responsible for Key's corporate, investment banking, capital markets, commercial real estate and equipment finance businesses.
     The following table shows Key's continuing and discontinued operating results for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2010, December 31, 2009, and March 31, 2009.
Results of Operations
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 3
     As shown in the following table, the comparability of Key's earnings for the current, prior and year-ago quarters is affected by several significant items.
Significant Items Affecting the Comparability of Earnings
EPS = Earnings per common share
SUMMARY OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS
     Taxable-equivalent net interest income was $632 million for the first quarter of 2010, and the net interest margin was 3.19%. These results compare to taxable-equivalent net interest income of $595 million and a net interest margin of 2.79% for the first quarter of 2009. The improvement in the net interest margin is primarily attributable to lower funding costs and improved yields on loans. During the past year the Company has experienced an improvement in the mix of deposits, resulting in a lower level of higher costing certificates of deposit and an increase in lower costing transaction accounts. The Company expects this change in funding mix to continue as higher costing certificates of deposit mature and are repriced to current market rates. This repricing and changing the mix of deposits should continue to benefit the Company's net interest margin for the remaining quarters of 2010. Funding costs were also reduced by maturities of long-term debt and the 2009 exchanges of retail trust preferred securities for Key common shares.
     Compared to the fourth quarter of 2009, taxable-equivalent net interest income decreased by $5 million, and the net interest margin rose by 15 basis points. The increase in the net interest margin resulting from the improved funding mix was mostly offset by the lower day count and reduced average earning assets in the first quarter of 2010 compared to the fourth quarter of 2009.
     Key's noninterest income was $450 million for the first quarter of 2010, compared to $478 million for the year-ago quarter. The decrease reflects a $105 million gain from the sale of Visa Inc. shares during the first quarter of 2009. In addition, operating lease income and gains on leased equipment decreased by $14 million and $18 million, respectively, compared to the first quarter of 2009 due to a lower level of leasing activity. Net gains of $37 million in the first quarter of 2010 from principal investing (including results attributable to noncontrolling interests), compared to net losses of $72 million for the same period last year, partially offset this decline in noninterest income.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 4
     The major components of Key's fee-based income for the past five quarters are shown in the following table.
Fee-based Income  Major Components
     Compared to the fourth quarter of 2009, noninterest income decreased by $19 million. This lower noninterest income resulted from a decrease of $43 million in principal investing results (including results attributable to noncontrolling interests), a $12 million decrease in letter of credit and loan fees, an $8 million decrease in income from corporate owned life insurance as well as decreases in various other miscellaneous income components. The negative effect of these factors was partially offset by a $56 million increase in results from investment banking and capital markets activities that was primarily attributable to changes in the fair values of certain commercial real estate related investments in the fourth quarter of 2009.
     Key's noninterest expense was $785 million for the first quarter of 2010, compared to $927 million for the same period last year. Noninterest expense for the first quarter of 2009 was adversely affected by an intangible assets impairment charge of $196 million. Excluding this charge, noninterest expense for the current quarter was up $54 million, or 7%, from the year-ago quarter. Personnel expense increased by $3 million while nonpersonnel expense rose by $51 million, reflecting increases of $26 million in costs associated with OREO, including write-downs and losses on sales, and various other expense categories.
     Compared to the fourth quarter of 2009, noninterest expense decreased by $86 million. Personnel expense decreased by $38 million, due largely to lower incentive compensation. Nonpersonnel expense decreased by $48 million, reflecting a decrease in the provision for losses on lending-related commitments of $29 million, a $25 million reduction in professional fees and a decrease in operating lease expense of $11 million. These items were partially offset by a $22 million increase in various other expense categories.
ASSET QUALITY
     Key's provision for loan losses was $413 million for the first quarter of 2010, compared to $847 million for the year-ago quarter and $756 million for the fourth quarter of 2009. Key's allowance for loan losses was $2.4 billion, or 4.34% of total loans, at March 31, 2010, compared to 4.31% at December 31, 2009, and 2.88% at March 31, 2009.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 5
     Selected asset quality statistics for Key for each of the past five quarters are presented in the following table.
Selected Asset Quality Statistics from Continuing Operations
     Net loan charge-offs for the quarter totaled $522 million, or 3.67% of average loans. These results compare to $460 million, or 2.60%, for the same period last year and $708 million, or 4.64%, for the previous quarter.
     Key's net loan charge-offs by loan type for each of the past five quarters are shown in the following table.
Net Loan Charge-offs from Continuing Operations
     Compared to the fourth quarter of 2009, net loan charge-offs in the commercial loan portfolio decreased by $193 million. The decrease was attributable to declines in both the commercial, financial and agricultural and real estate commercial mortgage and construction lines of business. The level of net charge-offs in the consumer portfolio rose by $7 million. As shown in the table on page 6, Key's exit loan portfolio accounted for $153 million, or 29%, of Key's total net loan charge-offs for the first quarter of 2010. Net charge-offs in the exit portfolio increased by $12 million from the fourth quarter of 2009. Management expects net charge-offs to remain elevated in 2010, but to continue to improve from the first quarter level in future quarters.
     At March 31, 2010, Key's nonperforming loans totaled $2.1 billion and represented 3.69% of period-end portfolio loans, compared to 3.72% at December 31, 2009, and 2.48% at March 31, 2009. Nonperforming assets at March 31, 2010, totaled $2.4 billion and represented
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 6
4.31% of portfolio loans, OREO and other nonperforming assets, compared to 4.25% at December 31, 2009, and 2.84% at March 31, 2009. The following table illustrates the trend in Key's nonperforming assets by loan type over the past five quarters.
Nonperforming Assets from Continuing Operations
     Nonperforming assets decreased during the first quarter of 2010 which represents the second quarterly decline. Most of the reduction came from nonperforming loans and OREO in the commercial real estate line of business. These reductions were offset in part by an increase in nonperforming loans held for sale. As shown in the following table, Key's exit loan portfolio accounted for $499 million, or 21%, of Key's total nonperforming assets at March 31, 2010, compared to $599 million, or 24%, at December 31, 2009.
     The composition of Key's exit loan portfolio at March 31, 2010, and December 31, 2009, the net charge-offs recorded on this portfolio for the first quarter of 2010 and the fourth quarter of 2009, and the nonperforming status of these loans at March 31, 2010, and December 31, 2009, are shown in the following table.
Exit Loan Portfolio from Continuing Operations
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 7
CAPITAL
     Key's risk-based capital ratios included in the following table continued to exceed all "well-capitalized" regulatory benchmarks at March 31, 2010.
Capital Ratios
(a) March 31, 2010 ratio is estimated.
     As shown in the preceding table, at March 31, 2010, Key had a Tier 1 common equity ratio of 7.53%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 12.96%, and a tangible common equity ratio of 7.37%.
     Transactions that caused the change in Key's outstanding common shares over the past five quarters are summarized in the following table.
Summary of Changes in Common Shares Outstanding
     During the first quarter of 2010, Key made a $31 million cash dividend payment to the U.S. Treasury Department. During 2009, Key made four quarterly dividend payments aggregating $125 million to the U.S. Treasury Department as a participant in the U.S. Treasury's Capital Purchase Program.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 8
LINE OF BUSINESS RESULTS
     The following table shows the contribution made by each major business group to Key's taxable-equivalent revenue from continuing operations and income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Key for the periods presented. The specific lines of business that comprise each of the major business groups are described under the heading "Line of Business Descriptions." During the first quarter of 2010, Key re-aligned its reporting structure for its business groups. Previously, Consumer Finance consisted mainly of portfolios which were identified as exit or run-off portfolios and were included in Key's National Banking segment. Effective for all periods presented, Key is reflecting the results of these exit portfolios in Other Segments. The automobile dealer floor plan business, previously included in Consumer Finance, has been re-aligned with the Commercial Banking line of business within the Community Banking segment. In addition, other previously identified exit portfolios included in the National Banking segment, including $309 million of homebuilder loans from the Real Estate Capital line of business and $2.685 billion of commercial leases from the Equipment Finance line of business, have been moved to Other Segments. For more detailed financial information pertaining to each business group and its respective lines of business, see the tables at the end of this release.
Major Business Groups
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 9
Community Banking
TE = Taxable Equivalent, N/M = Not Meaningful
Additional Community Banking Data
Community Banking Summary of Operations
     Community Banking recorded net income attributable to Key of $5 million for the first quarter of 2010, compared to net income attributable to Key of $12 million for the year-ago quarter. Decreases in net interest income and noninterest income caused the decline.
     Taxable-equivalent net interest income declined by $11 million, or 3%, from the first quarter of 2009, due to a reduction in average earning assets which declined by $4 billion or 11%, from the year-ago quarter. Average deposits declined slightly from the first quarter of 2009. The mix of deposits has changed reflecting strong growth in noninterest-bearing deposits and negotiable order of withdrawal ("NOW") accounts, as higher-costing certificates of deposit originated in prior years mature and reprice to current market rates.
     Noninterest income decreased by $2 million, or 1%, from the year-ago quarter, due to lower service charges on deposits and an increase in the reserve for credit losses from client derivatives. These factors were partially offset by higher income from trust and investment services, letter of credit fees and electronic banking fees. Assets under management have increased 29% from the same period one year ago.
     The provision for loan losses increased slightly compared to the first quarter of 2009. Community Banking's provision for loan losses for the first quarter of 2010 exceeded its net
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 10
loan charge-offs by $26 million as consumer and business clients continue to experience lingering effects from the economic downturn and elevated unemployment levels.
     Noninterest expense remained flat from the year-ago quarter. Lower personnel costs, marketing, office supplies and printing, and a reduction in the provision for losses on lending-related commitments were offset by increases in FDIC deposit insurance, occupancy cost, and various other expense categories.
National Banking
National Banking Summary of Operations
     National Banking recorded a net loss attributable to Key of $33 million for the first quarter of 2010, compared to a $394 million net loss attributable to Key for the same period one year ago. During the first quarter of 2009, results were adversely affected by an intangible assets impairment charge of $196 million ($164 million after tax). Also contributing to the improvement in the first quarter of 2010 was a substantial decrease in the provision for loan losses, partially offset by lower net interest income and noninterest income.
     Taxable-equivalent net interest income decreased by $27 million, or 12%, from the first quarter of 2009, primarily due to lower earning assets, partially offset by improved earning asset spreads. Average earning assets decreased by $8 billion, or 24%, from the year-ago quarter, reflecting reductions in the commercial and held-for-sale portfolios.
     Noninterest income declined by $20 million, or 10%, from the first quarter of 2009. Dealer trading and derivatives income decreased $26 million, primarily due to an increase in the reserve for credit losses from client derivatives of $21 million. Operating lease revenue was also $8 million lower than the first quarter of 2009.
     The provision for loan losses in the first quarter of 2010 was $161 million compared to $511 million for the same period one year ago. For the second quarter in a row, National Banking experienced an improvement in nonperforming assets.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 11
     Excluding the intangible assets impairment charge in the first quarter of 2009, noninterest expense increased by $38 million, or 16%, from the first quarter of 2009, caused primarily by higher costs associated with OREO.
Other Segments
     Other Segments consist of Corporate Treasury, Key's Principal Investing unit and various exit portfolios which were previously included within the National Banking segment. These exit portfolios were moved to Other Segments during the first quarter of 2010. Prior periods have been adjusted to conform with the current reporting of the financial information for each segment. Other Segments generated a net loss attributable to Key of $46 million for the first quarter of 2010, compared to a net loss attributable to Key of $162 million for the same period last year. These results reflect net gains from principal investing attributable to Key of $21 million during the current quarter, compared to net losses of $63 million in the year-ago quarter as well as a reduction in the loan loss provision for the exit portfolios.
Line of Business Descriptions
Community Banking
provides individuals with branch-based deposit and investment products, personal finance services and loans, including residential mortgages, home equity and various types of installment loans. This line of business also provides small businesses with deposit, investment and credit products, and business advisory services.
Regional Banking
Regional Banking also offers financial, estate and retirement planning, and asset management services to assist high-net-worth clients with their banking, trust, portfolio management, insurance, charitable giving and related needs.
provides midsize businesses with products and services that include commercial lending, cash management, equipment leasing, investment and employee benefit programs, succession planning, access to capital markets, derivatives and foreign exchange.
Commercial Banking
National Banking
consists of two business units, Real Estate Capital and Corporate Banking Services.
Real Estate Capital and Corporate Banking Services
Real Estate Capital is a national business that provides construction and interim lending, permanent debt placements and servicing, equity and investment banking, and other commercial banking products and services to developers, brokers and owner-investors. This unit deals primarily with nonowner-occupied properties (i.e., generally properties in which at least 50% of the debt service is provided by rental income from nonaffiliated third parties). Real Estate Capital emphasizes providing clients with finance solutions through access to the capital markets.
Corporate Banking Services provides cash management, interest rate derivatives, and foreign exchange products and services to clients served by both the Community Banking and National Banking groups. Through its Public Sector and Financial Institutions businesses, Corporate Banking Services also provides a full array of commercial banking products and services to government and not-for-profit entities, and to community banks. A variety of cash management services, including the processing of tuition payments for private schools, are provided through the Global Treasury Management unit.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 12
meets the equipment leasing needs of companies worldwide and provides equipment manufacturers, distributors and resellers with financing options for their clients. Lease financing receivables and related revenues are assigned to other lines of business (primarily Institutional and Capital Markets, and Commercial Banking) if those businesses are principally responsible for maintaining the relationship with the client.
Equipment Finance
through its KeyBanc Capital Markets unit, provides commercial lending, treasury management, investment banking, derivatives, foreign exchange, equity and debt underwriting and trading, and syndicated finance products and services to large corporations and middle-market companies.
Institutional and Capital Markets,
Through its Victory Capital Management unit, Institutional and Capital Markets also manages or offers advice regarding investment portfolios for a national client base, including corporations, labor unions, not-for-profit organizations, governments and individuals. These portfolios may be managed in separate accounts, common funds or the Victory family of mutual funds.
Cleveland-based KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY) is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, with assets of approximately $95 billion at March 31, 2010. Key companies provide investment management, retail and commercial banking, and investment banking products and services to individuals and companies throughout the United States and, for certain businesses, internationally. In 2009, KeyBank was awarded its seventh consecutive "Outstanding" rating for economic development achievements under the Community Reinvestment Act, the only national bank among the 50 largest in the United States to achieve this distinction from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Key has also been recognized for excellence in numerous areas of the multi-channel customer banking experience, including Corporate Insight's 2009 for online service. For more information about Key, visit
Bank Monitor
https://www.key.com/
.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 13
Notes to Editors:
A live Internet broadcast of KeyCorp's conference call to discuss quarterly results and currently anticipated earnings trends and to answer analysts' questions can be accessed through the Investor Relations section at
https://www.key.com/ir
at 9:00 a.m. ET, on Wednesday, April 21, 2010. An audio replay of the call will be available through April 28, 2010.
.
For up-to-date company information, media contacts and facts and figures about Key's lines of business visit our Media Newsroom at
https://www
.
key.com/newsroom
This earnings release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements about Key's financial condition, results of operations, earnings outlook, asset quality trends and profitability. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts but instead represent only management's current expectations and forecasts regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside of Key's control. Key's actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause Key's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in Key's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, which has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is available on Key's website () and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (). Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and should not be relied upon as representing management's views as of any subsequent date. Key does not undertake any obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the date of the forward-looking statements.
www.key.com
www.sec.gov
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 14
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 15
The table below presents certain earnings data and performance ratios, excluding (credits) charges related to intangible assets impairment and the tax treatment of certain leveraged lease financing transactions disallowed by the IRS. Management believes that eliminating the effects of significant items that are generally nonrecurring facilitates the analysis of results by presenting them on a more comparable basis.
The table also shows the computations of certain financial measures related to "tangible common equity" and "Tier 1 common equity." The tangible common equity ratio has become a focus of some investors and management believes that this ratio may assist investors in analyzing Key's capital position absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the banking regulators have assessed bank and bank holding company capital adequacy based on both the amount and composition of capital, the calculation of which is prescribed in federal banking regulations. As a result of the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program, the Federal Reserve has focused its assessment of capital adequacy on a component of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. Because the Federal Reserve has long indicated that voting common shareholders' equity (essentially Tier 1 capital less preferred stock, qualifying capital securities and noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries) generally should be the dominant element in Tier 1 capital, such a focus is consistent with existing capital adequacy guidelines and does not imply a new or ongoing capital standard.
Because the Tier 1 common equity is neither formally defined by GAAP nor prescribed in amount by federal banking regulations, this measure is considered to be a non-GAAP financial measure. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Key's capital adequacy using tangible common equity and Tier 1 common equity, management believes it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Key's capital adequacy on these same bases. The table also reconciles the GAAP performance measures to the corresponding non-GAAP measures.
Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. To mitigate these limitations, Key has procedures in place to ensure that these measures are calculated using the appropriate GAAP or regulatory components and to ensure that Key's performance is properly reflected to facilitate period-to-period comparisons. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by investors in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP.
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 16
TE = Taxable Equivalent, GAAP = U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 17
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 18
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 19
Average balances have not been adjusted prior to the third quarter of 2009 to reflect Key's January 1, 2008, adoption of the applicable accounting guidance related to the offsetting of certain derivative contracts on the consolidated balance sheet.
TE = Taxable Equivalent, GAAP = U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 20
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 21
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 22
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 23
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 24
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 25
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 26
Community Banking
 
KeyCorp Reports First Quarter 2010 Results April 21, 2010 Page 27
National Banking
TE = Taxable Equivalent, N/A = Not Applicable, N/M = Not Meaningful

Exhibit 99.2
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3 (1 of 2)
 
Exhibit 99.3 (2 of 2)
 


