FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20101201164453.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
On December 1, 2010, the KeyCorp Board of Directors elected William R. Koehler, age 46, as President, Key Community Bank.
Mr. Koehler has served at KeyCorp as Great Lakes Regional President (since 2010); as leader of Key's Keyvolution project (2008-2010); as Michigan District President (2007-2008); and previously as Managing Director and Segment Leader of the Financial Sponsors Group and Regional Banking within KeyBanc Capital Markets.
On December 1, 2010, the KeyCorp Board of Directors also elected Christopher M. Gorman, who previously served as a Senior Executive Vice President of KeyCorp, as President, Key Corporate Bank.
A copy of the press release announcing these events is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
99.1     Press release dated December 1, 2010.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CLEVELAND, Dec. 1 -- KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY) President and Chief Operating Officer Beth E. Mooney today announced that two veteran Key executives will lead the company's major business divisions, Key Corporate Bank and Key Community Bank.
Christopher M. Gorman was named President, Key Corporate Bank, and William R. Koehler was named President, Key Community Bank. Both positions will report to Mooney. The appointments are effective immediately.
Key Corporate Bank, formerly Key National Banking, includes the company's commercial real estate, corporate banking services, treasury management, equipment finance, investment banking and capital markets businesses. Key Community Bank includes the businesses associated with Key's 14-state branch network, including retail banking, small- and middle-market business banking, private banking, investment services and mortgage.
 
"These actions are aimed at accelerating our momentum and capitalizing on our distinct capabilities," noted Mooney. "As we assess the financial services landscape, it is essential we leverage what is clearly our greatest competitive advantagethe synergies created by delivering our capabilities as one Key' in the marketplace."
Mooney continued, "This approach will position Key to grow and win by fully leveraging our strengths: strong district teams, award-winning service, deep client insights, industry expertise and product specialization. It more accurately reflects the total capabilities we offer, as well as the focus we provide from client, segment, industry and geographic perspectives. We will also continue to emphasize our strong and enduring commitment to communities."
Gorman has been with Key since 1991, and has 27 years of experience in corporate and investment banking. He presently leads the Key business groups, previously known as Key National Banking, that provide corporate and investment banking, capital markets, commercial real estate and equipment finance solutions for Key clients. Previously, Gorman served as President of KeyBanc Capital Markets and led Key's middle-market and large-corporate banking groups. He is a member of KeyCorp's Management Committee. Gorman holds a Bachelor's degree in Finance from Miami University.
Koehler has 20 years of experience in the financial services industry and joined Key in 1996. He has been President of KeyBank's Great Lakes Region, which encompasses more than 340 branches in seven Key districts in Ohio, Michigan and Indiana. Also, Koehler successfully led the corporate-wide initiative known as Keyvolution, improving the company's efficiency and effectiveness. Prior to this role, he was KeyBank's District President in Michigan and Managing Director of KeyBanc Capital Markets. Koehler holds a B.A. in Economics from Harvard University and an MBA from Columbia Business School. He will join KeyCorp's Management Committee.
Mark J. Williams, Director of Strategic Planning, will also report to Mooney. This move will enhance Key's ability to effectively integrate and align corporate and business unit strategy.
Mooney was named KeyCorp President and COO on Nov. 18, and will succeed KeyCorp Chairman and CEO Henry L. Meyer III when he retires effective May 1, 2011.
Cleveland-based KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY) is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, with assets of approximately $95 billion. Key companies provide investment management, retail and commercial banking, consumer finance, and investment banking products and services to individuals and companies throughout the United States and, for certain businesses, internationally. For more information, visit https://www.key.com/.
Note to Editors: For up-to-date company information, media contacts and facts and figures about Key lines of business, visit
to view our Media Newsroom.
http://key.com/newsroom


