FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20110916170547.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
 
Edward W. Stack has resigned from the KeyCorp Board of Directors effective as of September 16, 2011. Mr. Stack's resignation was not based on any disagreement with KeyCorp.
A copy of Mr. Stack's resignation letter is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
September 16, 2011
Ms. Beth E. Mooney
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Alexander M. Cutler
Lead Director and Chair of KeyCorp's
    Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
c/o KeyCorp
127 Public Square
Cleveland, OH 44114
 
Dear Beth and Sandy:
As we have discussed, over the past several months the increasing demands on my time as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Dick's has made it difficult for me to attend KeyCorp Board and Committee meetings. I do not see that situation changing in the near future. Consequently, it is with regret that I have decided to resign as a KeyCorp Director. I do so with a strong belief in, and support of, Key and with confidence that Key is in excellent hands under Beth's leadership.
I wish both of you and all the KeyCorp Directors the best.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Edward W. Stack
Edward W. Stack
Chairman & CEO
/vre


