FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20111103160840.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KeyCorp will review its Key Corporate Bank segment performance and strategy at the BancAnalysts Association of Boston Inc. conference on November 4, 2011. Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the slides forming the basis of such presentation and which will be furnished at, and posted at KeyCorp's website in connection with, the conference. Such slides are also expected to be furnished at, and may be referred to at, a related investor dinner on November 3, 2011 and an investor breakfast on November 4, 2011.
The slides are being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, and the information contained therein shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section. Furthermore, the information contained in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of KeyCorp under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
This current report on Form 8-K (including the Exhibit attached hereto) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts but instead only represent management's current expectations and forecasts regarding future events, many of which are inherently uncertain and outside of KeyCorp and subsidiaries' ("Key") control. Key's actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause Key's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in KeyCorp's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2011, June 30, 2011, and September 30, 2011, each of which have been filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and are available on Key's website () and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website (). Key does not undertake to update the forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that may arise after the respective dates of the referenced forward-looking statements.
www.key.com/ir
www.sec.gov
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 



