FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20110520163915.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
KeyCorp held its 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 19, 2011, at One Cleveland Center, Cleveland, Ohio. Beth E. Mooney, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, presided. The following describes the final voting results from the meeting.
At the meeting, shareholders elected all thirteen of the directors nominated by the Board of Directors and ratified the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as our independent auditors for 2011. Each director received a greater number of votes cast "for" his or her election than votes cast against his or her election as stated below. The shareholders also approved the 2011 KeyCorp Annual Performance Plan. The Board of Directors' proposal to reduce shareholder voting percentage requirements contained in our Regulations to the statutory norms under the Ohio Revised Code was also approved by the shareholders. Shareholders advisory votes relating to executive compensation approved KeyCorp's Executive Compensation and an annual advisory vote on executive compensation consistent with the Board of Directors' recommendation.
Issue One  Election of Directors
Our shareholders elected thirteen individuals to our Board of Directors as set forth below.
Issue Two  Approval of the KeyCorp 2011 Annual Performance Plan
Our shareholders approved the KeyCorp 2011 Annual Performance Plan as set forth below.
 
Issue Three  Amendment to Regulations to Remove all Shareholder Voting Requirements Greater than Statutory Norm
This issue requires receipt of the affirmative vote of the holders of the common stock, par value $1.00 ("Common Shares"), entitling them to exercise 75% of the voting power of such shares, unless such amendment is recommended by two-thirds of the authorized Board of Directors, in which case the requisite vote is a majority of the voting power of KeyCorp. Because at least two-thirds of the entire authorized Board of Directors has recommended this proposed amendment, the affirmative vote of the holders of our Common Shares entitling them to exercise a majority of the voting power of KeyCorp is required to adopt this amendment to the Regulations. The requisite number of votes was received from the common shareholders, and accordingly this issue was approved.
Issue Six  Advisory Vote on Frequency of Shareholder Vote on Approval of KeyCorp's Executive Compensation
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


