FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20120712162053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 12, 2012, KeyCorp issued a press release announcing the retirement of Charles S. Hyle from his position as KeyCorp's Chief Risk Officer and the election of William L. Hartmann to the position of Chief Risk Officer of KeyCorp effective immediately. Mr. Hyle will continue with KeyCorp as a non-executive employee through year end in order to facilitate a smooth transition. A copy of the press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
99.1 Press release, dated July 12, 2012
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CLEVELAND, July 12, 2012  KeyCorp today announced the retirement of Chief Risk Officer Chuck Hyle. William L. Hartmann will succeed Hyle as chief risk officer as part of Key's leadership succession strategy. Hartmann, who assumes the role of chief risk officer immediately, reports to KeyCorp Chairman and CEO Beth Mooney and serves on Key's Management Committee.
Hyle will work closely with Hartmann through year end to ensure a smooth transition. "Bill's depth of knowledge and experience will enable Key to continue effective enterprise risk management and to balance risk and reward," Mooney said.
Hartmann joined Key as chief credit officer in 2010. In this role, he led Key's credit risk management functions across the Asset Recovery, Institutional, Commercial, Real Estate and Consumer businesses. He also chaired the Credit Risk Committee. Prior to Key, he spent 29 years with Citigroup where his most recent position was global head of Large Corporate Risk Management. While at Citigroup, he held numerous roles with increasing responsibility, including chief risk officer Asia Pacific, head of Global Portfolio Management, co-head of Leveraged Finance Capital Markets and global head of Loan Sales & Trading. Hartmann is a member of the Leadership Cleveland Class of 2012 and serves on the Board of Trustees for ideastream, Northeast Ohio's public service, multi-media organization.
ADD ONE  HYLE TO RETIRE, HARTMANN PROMOTED TO CHIEF RISK OFFICER OF KEYCORP
Since 2004, Hyle has led Key's risk management functions, and ensured that Key was well-positioned in the midst of a rapidly changing industry and regulatory environment.
"Under Chuck's leadership, Key transformed its risk culture and risk processes and strengthened its credit and risk management discipline and controls," said Mooney. "Chuck has been a dedicated leader and a trusted business partner who has left a strong legacy at Key."
About KeyCorp
KeyCorp traces its roots back more than 160 years ago and is headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio. One of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, Key has assets of approximately $87 billion as of March 31, 2012.
Key provides deposit, lending, cash management and investment services to individuals and small businesses in 14 states under the name of KeyBank National Association. Key also provides a broad range of sophisticated corporate and investment banking products, such as merger and acquisition advice, public and private debt and equity, syndications and derivatives to middle market companies in selected industries throughout the United States under the KeyBanc Capital Markets trade name.
For more information, visit /. KeyBank is Member FDIC.
https://www.key.com
Note to Editors: For up-to-date company information, media contacts and facts and figures about Key's lines of business, visit our Media Newsroom at
Key.com/newsroom
.


