FILE:KEY/KEY-8K-20121029094654.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangement of Certain Officers
On October 23, 2012, Tom Stevens, KeyCorp's Vice Chair and Chief Administrative Officer, announced that he will retire as a member of KeyCorp's Board of Directors effective as of KeyCorp's 2013 annual meeting of shareholders (May 16, 2013) and as Chief Administrative Officer on June 30, 2013. A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Stevens' retirement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. Mr. Stevens will retire in connection with the elimination of the position of chief administrative officer, and he will be entitled to receive base salary and continuing Key health insurance benefits for twelve months (subject to any applicable deferral and/or clawback requirements for compensation).
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
99.1 Press release dated October 25, 2012.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
CLEVELAND, October 25, 2012  KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY) today announced that Thomas C. Stevens, Vice Chair and Chief Administrative Officer, 63, will retire effective June 30, 2013. He will continue to serve as a Director of KeyCorp until the Corporation's 2013 annual meeting, when his current term as Director will expire.
During the next several months, Stevens will work with Beth Mooney, KeyCorp's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, to transition his leadership responsibilities to other members of KeyCorp's executive management team consistent with the organization's ongoing succession planning process for senior leadership.
Mooney stated that, "All of us at Key extend our appreciation to Tom for his many years of outstanding service. Tom has demonstrated a tireless commitment to Key and countless boards and civic associations in our community."
Alexander Cutler, KeyCorp's Lead Director, said, "Tom has a deep and longstanding knowledge of Key, the financial services industry and Key's businesses. He has been a valued member of the Board of Directors and we want to thank him for his many years of service and wish him well as he nears retirement."
For more information contact:
Investor Relations: Vernon Patterson, 216.689.0520, vernon_patterson@keybank.com
Investor Relations: Kelly Lammers, 216.689.3133, kelly_l_lammers@keybank.com
Media: David Reavis, 216.471.2886, david_reavis@keybank.com
About KeyCorp
KeyCorp was organized more than 160 years ago and is headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio. One of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies, Key has assets of approximately $87 billion.
Key provides deposit, lending, cash management and investment services to individuals, small and medium-sized businesses in 14 states under the name of KeyBank National Association. Key also provides a broad range of sophisticated corporate and investment banking products, such as merger and acquisition advice, public and private debt and equity, syndications and derivatives to middle market companies in selected industries throughout the United States under the KeyBanc Capital Markets trade name. For more information, visit . KeyBank is Member FDIC.
https://www.key.com


