FILE:COP/COP-8K-20020830145553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Acquisition or disposition of assets	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Acquisition or disposition of assets
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ----------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 AUGUST 30, 2002 (Date of Earliest Event Reported) CONOCOPHILLIPS (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) DELAWARE 01-0562944 (State or other (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer jurisdiction Identification of incorporation) No.) 600 NORTH DAIRY ASHFORD ROAD HOUSTON, TEXAS 77079 (Address of principal executive offices, including Zip Code) (281) 293-1000 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
ITEM 2. ACQUISITION OR DISPOSITION OF ASSETS. On August 30, 2002, Phillips Petroleum Company, a Delaware corporation ("Phillips") and Conoco Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Conoco"), combined their businesses by merging with and into separate acquisition subsidiaries of ConocoPhillips, a Delaware corporation ("ConocoPhillips"). As a result of the mergers, each of Phillips and Conoco became a wholly-owned subsidiary of ConocoPhillips. In the mergers, each share of Phillips common stock, par value $1.25 per share, has been converted into one share of ConocoPhillips common stock, par value $.01 per share ("ConocoPhillips Common Stock"), and each share of Conoco common stock, par value $.01 per share, has been converted into 0.4677 of a share of ConocoPhillips Common Stock. Each share of ConocoPhillips Common Stock has attached to it a preferred stock purchase right. The issuance of ConocoPhillips Common Stock in the mergers was registered under the Securities Act of 1933 pursuant to ConocoPhillips' registration statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-74798) (the "Registration Statement") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and declared effective on February 7, 2002. The Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus of Phillips and Conoco included in the Registration Statement contains additional information about this transaction. Pursuant to Rule 12g-3(c) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), the ConocoPhillips Common Stock, including the attached preferred stock purchase right, is deemed to be registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act. The ConocoPhillips Common Stock has been approved for listing on the New York Stock Exchange and will trade under the ticker symbol "COP". The description of ConocoPhillips Common Stock contained under the caption "Description of New Parent Capital Stock" in the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus is incorporated by reference herein. Phillips' common stock and Conoco's common stock were both registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Each of Phillips and Conoco is delisting its common stock from the New York Stock Exchange and filing a Form 15 with the SEC to terminate the registration of its common stock under the Exchange Act. ConocoPhillips' fiscal year will end on the 31st day of December in each year. On August 30, 2002, ConocoPhillips issued a press release announcing the completion of the mergers. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description of the press release is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of Exhibit 99.1. ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS. Regulatory Approvals On August 30, 2002, the Federal Trade Commission (the "FTC") voted to accept for public comment the Agreement Containing Consent Orders, including the Decision and Order and the Order to Hold Separate and Maintain Assets (collectively, the "FTC Consent Decree") among Phillips, Conoco and the FTC.
The FTC's acceptance of the FTC Consent Decree for public comment satisfied the final outstanding condition to the obligations of Phillips and Conoco to consummate the mergers, other than conditions that by their nature could not be satisfied until the date of the consummation of the mergers. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. The mergers will be reported by ConocoPhillips as an acquisition of Conoco by Phillips. Pursuant to the instructions to Item 7(a)(4) and Item 7(b)(2) of Form 8-K, not later than 60 days after the date that this Report was required to be filed, ConocoPhillips intends to file an amendment to this Report on Form 8-K/A that will include the audited financial statements of the business acquired (Conoco) and the related pro forma financial information within 60 days. (C) Exhibits. Exhibit 2.1 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of November 18, 2001, by and among Phillips, ConocoPhillips, P Merger Corp. (formerly known as Porsche Merger Corp.), C Merger Corp. (formerly known as Corvette Merger Corp.) and Conoco (incorporated by reference to Annex A to the Joint Proxy Statement/ Prospectus in Amendment No. 3 to ConocoPhillips' Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on February 7, 2002 (File No. 333-74798)) Exhibit 3.1 Restated Certificate of Incorporation of ConocoPhillips Exhibit 3.2 Certificate of Designations of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock Exhibit 3.3 By-Laws of ConocoPhillips Exhibit 4.1 Rights Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2002, between ConocoPhillips and Mellon Investor Services LLC, a New Jersey limited liability company, as rights agent Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated August 30, 2002 -2-
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. CONOCOPHILLIPS Date: August 30, 2002 By: /s/ RICK A. HARRINGTON ----------------------------------- Name: Rick A. Harrington, Esq. Title: Senior Vice President and General Counsel -3-
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description __________ ___________ Exhibit 2.1 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of November 18, 2001, by and among Phillips, ConocoPhillips, P Merger Corp. (formerly known as Porsche Merger Corp.), C Merger Corp. (formerly known as Corvette Merger Corp.) and Conoco (incorporated by reference to Annex A to the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus in Amendment No. 3 to ConocoPhillips' Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on February 7, 2002 (File No. 333-74798)) Exhibit 3.1 Restated Certificate of Incorporation of ConocoPhillips Exhibit 3.2 Certificate of Designations of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of ConocoPhillips Exhibit 3.3 By-Laws of ConocoPhillips Exhibit 4.1 Rights Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2002, between ConocoPhillips and Mellon Investor Services LLC, a New Jersey limited liability company, as rights agent Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated August 30, 2002

RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION of CONOCOPHILLIPS FIRST: The name of the Corporation is ConocoPhillips (hereinafter the "Corporation"). SECOND: The address of the registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware is 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of its registered agent at that address is The Corporation Trust Company. THIRD: The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which a corporation may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as set forth in Title 8 of the Delaware Code (the "DGCL"). FOURTH: A. AUTHORIZED SHARES. The total number of shares of stock that the Corporation shall have authority to issue is 3,000,000,000 (three billion) of which (i) 2,500,000,000 (two billion, five hundred million) shares shall be shares of Common Stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), and (ii) 500,000,000 (five hundred million) shares shall be shares of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock"). The number of authorized shares of any of the Preferred Stock or the Common Stock may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority in voting power of the stock of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon irrespective of the provisions of Section 242(b)(2) of the DGCL (or any successor provision thereto), and no vote of the holders of any of the Preferred Stock or the Common Stock voting separately as a class shall be required therefor. B. PREFERRED STOCK. The Board of Directors is hereby expressly authorized, by resolution or resolutions, to provide, out of the unissued shares of Preferred Stock, for series of Preferred Stock and, with respect to each such series, to fix the number of shares constituting such series and the designation of such series, and the voting powers, preferences and relative,participating, optional or other special rights, if any, and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series. The voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, if any, of each series of Preferred Stock, and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, if any, may differ from those of any and all other series at any time outstanding. C. COMMON STOCK. (1) Subject to the rights of the holders of Preferred Stock, and subject to any other provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation ("Certificate of Incorporation"), holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive such dividends and other distributions in cash, stock of any corporation or property of the Corporation as may be declared thereon by the Board of Directors from time to time out of assets or funds of the Corporation legally available therefor and shall share equally on a per share basis in all such dividends and other distributions. -1-
(2) (a) At every meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation every holder of Common Stock shall be entitled to one vote in person or by proxy for each share of Common Stock standing in his or her name on the transfer books of the Corporation in connection with the election of directors and all other matters submitted to a vote of stockholders; provided, however, that, except as otherwise required by law, holders of Common Stock, as such, shall not be entitled to vote on any amendment to this Certificate of Incorporation (including any Certificate of Designation relating to any series of Preferred Stock) that relates solely to the terms of one or more outstanding series of Preferred Stock if the holders of such affected series are entitled, either separately or together with the holders of one or more other such series, to vote thereon pursuant to this Certificate of Incorporation (including any Certificate of Designation relating to any series of Preferred Stock) or pursuant to the DGCL. (b) The affirmative vote of shares representing not less than 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the Voting Stock shall be required to alter, amend or adopt any provision inconsistent with or repeal Article FIFTH, Article SEVENTH or Article NINTH or any provision of this paragraph (C)(2)(b), and the affirmative vote of shares representing not less than 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the Voting Stock, acting on the unanimous recommendation of the entire Board of Directors, shall be required to alter, amend or adopt any provision inconsistent with or repeal Article FIRST. "Voting Stock" shall mean the then outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote generally on the election of directors and shall exclude any class or series of capital stock only entitled to vote in the event of dividend arrearages thereon, whether or not at the time of determination there are any such dividend arrearages. (c) Every reference in this Certificate of Incorporation to a majority or other proportion of shares, or a majority or other proportion of the votes of shares, of Voting Stock shall refer to such majority or other proportion of the votes to which such shares of Voting Stock are entitled. (d) At any meeting of stockholders, the presence in person or by proxy of the holders of shares of capital stock entitled to cast a majority of all the votes which could be cast at such meeting by the holders of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting shall constitute a quorum. (3) In the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, after payment in full of the amounts required to be paid to the holders of Preferred Stock, the remaining assets and funds of the Corporation shall be distributed pro rata to the holders of Common Stock. For purposes of this paragraph (C)(3), the voluntary sale, conveyance, lease, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation or a consolidation or merger of the Corporation with one or more other corporations or other entities (whether or not the Corporation is the corporation surviving such consolidation or merger) shall not be deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up, voluntary or involuntary. (4) (a) All rights to vote and all voting power (including, without limitation thereto, the right to elect directors) shall be vested exclusively in the holders of Common Stock, except as otherwise expressly provided in this Certificate of Incorporation, in a -2-
Certificate of Designation with respect to any Preferred Stock or as otherwise expressly required by applicable law. (b) No stockholder shall be entitled to exercise any right of cumulative voting. FIFTH: A. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of Directors. The total number of directors constituting the entire Board shall be not less than six nor more than twenty as determined from time to time by resolution adopted by affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors. The directors shall be divided into three classes, designated Class I, Class II and Class III. Each class shall consist, as nearly as may be possible, of one-third of the total number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors. Each director shall serve for a term ending on the date of the third annual meeting following the annual meeting at which such director was elected and until his successor shall be elected and shall qualify, subject however, to prior death, resignation or removal from office. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence: the Class I directors in office immediately following the Merger Effective Time shall have an initial term ending on the date of the first annual meeting held after the date on which the mergers provided for in the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 18, 2001, by and among Phillips Petroleum Company, the Corporation, Porsche Merger Corp., Corvette Merger Corp. and Conoco Inc. became effective (the "Merger Effective Time"); the Class II directors in office immediately following the Merger Effective Time shall have an initial term ending on the date of the second annual meeting held after the Merger Effective Time; and the Class III directors in office immediately following the Merger Effective Time shall have an initial term ending on the date of the third annual meeting held after the Merger Effective Time. If the number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as nearly equal as possible, and any additional director of any class elected to fill a vacancy resulting from an increase in such class shall hold office for a term that shall coincide with the remaining term of that class, but in no case will a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director. A director shall hold office until the annual meeting at which his term expires and until his successor shall be elected and shall qualify, subject, however, to prior death, resignation or removal from office. Unless otherwise required by law, any vacancy on the Board of Directors may be filled only by a majority of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director, or by stockholders if such vacancy was caused by the action of stockholders (in which event such vacancy may not be filled by the directors or a majority thereof). Any director elected to fill a vacancy not resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall have the same remaining term as that of his predecessor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the holders of outstanding shares of one or more series of Preferred Stock are entitled to elect a director or directors of the Corporation separately as a series or together with one or more other series pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Directors providing for the establishment of such series, such director or directors shall not be classified pursuant to or be subject to the foregoing provisions of this Article FIFTH, and the election, term of office, removal and filling of vacancies in respect of such director or directors shall be governed by the resolution of the Board of Directors so providing for the establishment of such series and by applicable law. -3-
B. Any director or the entire Board of Directors may only be removed for cause, such removal to be by the affirmative vote of the shares representing at least a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the Voting Stock. Unless the Board of Directors has made a determination that removal is in the best interests of the Corporation (in which case the following definition shall not apply), "cause" for removal of a director shall be deemed to exist only if (i) the director whose removal is proposed has been convicted, or when a director is granted immunity to testify when another has been convicted, of a felony by a court of competent jurisdiction and such conviction is no longer subject to direct appeal; (ii) such director has been found by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors then in office at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors called for that purpose, or by a court of competent jurisdiction to have been guilty of willful misconduct in the performance of his duties to the Corporation in a matter of substantial importance to the Corporation; or (iii) such director has been adjudicated by a court of competent jurisdiction to be mentally incompetent, which mental incompetency directly affects his ability as a director of the Corporation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever holders of outstanding shares of one or more series of Preferred Stock are entitled to elect directors of the Corporation pursuant to the provisions applicable in the case of arrearages in the payment of dividends or other defaults contained in the resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors providing for the establishment of any such series, any such director of the Corporation so elected may be removed in accordance with the provisions of such resolution or resolutions. C. There shall be no limitation on the qualification of any person to be a director or on the ability of any director to vote on any matter brought before the Board or any Board committee, except (i) as required by applicable law, (ii) as set forth in this Certificate of Incorporation or (iii) any By-Law adopted by the Board of Directors with respect to the eligibility for election as a director or the qualification for continuing service as a director upon reaching a specified age or, in the case of employee directors, with respect to the qualification for continuing service of directors upon ceasing employment from the Corporation. D. Except as (i) required by applicable law or (ii) set forth in this Certificate of Incorporation, at all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the entire Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors. E. The following provisions are inserted for further definition, limitation and regulation of the powers of the Corporation and of its directors and stockholders: (1) The By-Laws of the Corporation may be adopted, altered, amended or repealed (i) by the affirmative vote of the shares representing a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the Voting Stock; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that any proposed alteration, amendment or repeal of, or the adoption of any By-Law inconsistent with, Section 3, 7, 10 or 11 of Article II of the By-Laws or Section 1, 2 or 11 of Article III of the By-Laws or Section 4, 5 or 12 of Article IV of the By-Laws (in each case, as in effect on the date hereof), or the alteration, amendment or the repeal of, or the adoption of any provision inconsistent with this sentence, by the stockholders shall require the affirmative vote of shares representing not less than 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the Voting Stock; and PROVIDED, FURTHER, HOWEVER, that in the case of -4-
any such stockholder action at a special meeting of stockholders, notice of the proposed alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of the new By-Law or By-Laws must be contained in the notice of such special meeting, or (ii) by action of the Board of Directors of the Corporation except as otherwise specified in Section 12 of Article IV of the By-Laws. (2) In addition to the powers and authority hereinbefore or by statute expressly conferred upon them, the directors are hereby empowered to exercise all such powers and do all such acts and things as may be exercised or done by the Corporation, subject, nevertheless, to the provisions of the DGCL, this Certificate of Incorporation, and any By-Laws adopted by the stockholders; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that no By-Laws hereafter adopted by the stockholders shall invalidate any prior act of the directors which would have been valid if such By-Laws had not been adopted. SIXTH: Meetings of stockholders may be held within or without the State of Delaware, as the By-Laws may provide. The books of the Corporation may be kept (subject to any provision contained in the DGCL) outside the State of Delaware at such place or places as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors or in the By-Laws of the Corporation. SEVENTH: Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation may be effected only at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be effected by a consent in writing by such holders in lieu of such a meeting. Except as otherwise required by law, special meetings of stockholders of the Corporation for any purpose or purposes may be called only by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution stating the purpose or purposes thereof or by the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and any power of stockholders to call a special meeting is specifically denied. No business other than that stated in the notice of such meeting shall be transacted at any special meeting. EIGHTH: A. Subject to Section 253 of the DGCL, in addition to any affirmative vote that may be required by law, this Certificate of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation, and except as otherwise expressly provided in paragraph (B) of this Article EIGHTH: (i) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation with or into (A) any Related Person or (B) any Person that is an Affiliate of a Related Person; or (ii) any sale, lease, exchange, transfer or other disposition by the Corporation to any Related Person or any Affiliate of any Related Person of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation; or (iii) any reclassification of securities (including any reverse stock split) or recapitalization of the Corporation for which the approval of shareholders of the Corporation is otherwise required, or any merger, consolidation or share exchange of the Corporation with any of its subsidiaries for which the approval of shareholders of the Corporation is otherwise required, which has the effect, either directly or indirectly, of increasing by more than 1% the -5-
proportionate share of the Common Stock or Voting Stock Beneficially Owned by any Related Person or any Affiliate of any Related Person; or (iv) any dissolution of the Corporation voluntarily caused or proposed by or on behalf of a Related Person or any Affiliate of any Related Person, shall require the affirmative vote of shares representing (x) not less than 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the Voting Stock and (y) not less than 66-2/3% of the votes entitled to be cast by the Voting Stock not Beneficially Owned, directly or indirectly, by any Related Person, with respect to such Business Combination. Such affirmative vote shall be required, notwithstanding the fact that no vote may be required, or that a lesser percentage may be specified, by law, elsewhere in this Certificate of Incorporation, in the By-Laws of the Corporation or in any agreement with any national securities exchange or otherwise. B. The provisions of paragraph (A) shall not be applicable to any particular Business Combination, and such Business Combination shall require only such affirmative vote as is required by law, the By-Laws of the Corporation and any other provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, if all of the conditions specified in either of the following paragraphs (B)(i) and (B)(ii) are met: (i) the cash, property, securities or other consideration to be received per share by each holder of any outstanding class or series of Voting Stock in the Business Combination is, with respect to each such class or series, either (A) the same in form and amount per share as the highest consideration paid by the Related Person in a tender or exchange offer in which such Related Person acquired at least 50% of the outstanding stock of such class or series of Voting Stock and which was consummated not more than one year prior to the date of such Business Combination, or if earlier, the entering into of a definitive agreement providing therefor or (B) not less in amount (as to cash) or Fair Market Value (as to consideration other than cash) as of the date of the determination of the Highest Per Share Price (as to property, securities or other consideration) than the Highest Per Share Price applicable to such class or series of shares of Voting Stock; PROVIDED THAT, in the event of any Business Combination in which the Corporation survives, any shares retained by the holders thereof shall constitute consideration other than cash for purposes of this paragraph (B)(i); or (ii) a majority of the Continuing Directors shall have expressly approved such Business Combination either in advance of or subsequent to such Related Person's having become a Related Person. In the case of any Business Combination with a Related Person to which paragraph (B)(ii) above does not apply, a majority of the Continuing Directors, promptly following the request of a Related Person, shall determine the Highest Per Share Price for each class or series of stock of the Corporation. Such determination shall be announced not less than five days prior to the meeting at which holders of shares vote on the Business Combination. Such determination shall be final, unless the Related Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of additional shares of Common Stock after the date of the earlier determination, in which case the Continuing Directors shall make a new determination as to the Highest Per Share Price for each class or series of shares prior to the consummation of the Business Combination. -6-
A Related Person shall be deemed to have acquired a share at the time that such Related Person became the Beneficial Owner thereof. With respect to shares owned by Affiliates, Associates and other Persons whose ownership is attributable to a Related Person, if the price paid by such Related Person for such shares is not determinable by a majority of the Continuing Directors, the price so paid shall be deemed to be the higher of (i) the price paid upon the acquisition thereof by the Affiliate, Associate or other Person or (ii) the Share Price of the shares in question at the time when the Related Person became the Beneficial Owner thereof. C. For purposes of this Article EIGHTH and notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this Certificate of Incorporation: (i) The term "Affiliate," used to indicate a relationship to a specified Person, shall mean a Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such specified Person. (ii) The term "Associate," used to indicate a relationship with a specified Person, shall mean (A) any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture or other organization (other than the Corporation or any wholly owned subsidiary of the Corporation) of which such specified Person is an officer or partner or is, directly or indirectly, the Beneficial Owner of 10% or more of any class of equity securities; (B) any trust or other estate in which such specified Person has a beneficial interest of 10% or more or as to which such specified Person serves as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity; (C) any Person who is a director or officer of such specified Person or any of its parents or subsidiaries (other than the Corporation or any wholly owned subsidiary of the Corporation); and (D) any relative or spouse of such specified Person or of any of its Associates, or any relative of any such spouse, who has the same home as such specified Person or such Associate. (iii) A Person shall be a "Beneficial Owner" of any stock (A) which such Person or any of its Affiliates or Associates beneficially owns, directly or indirectly; or (B) which such Person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has, directly or indirectly, (1) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, or (2) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding; or (C) which is beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other Person, with which such Person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of such stock; or (D) of which such Person would be the Beneficial Owner pursuant to the terms of Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act, as in effect on September 30, 1998. Stock shall be deemed "Beneficially Owned" by the Beneficial Owner or Owners thereof. (iv) The term "Business Combination" shall mean any transaction which is referred to in any one or more of clauses (i) through (iv) of paragraph (A) of this Article EIGHTH. (v) The term "Continuing Director" shall mean, with respect to a Business Combination with a Related Person, any director of the Corporation who is unaffiliated with the Related Person and was a director prior to the time that the Related Person became a Related -7-
Person, and any successor of a Continuing Director who is unaffiliated with the Related Person and is recommended or nominated to succeed a Continuing Director by a majority of the Continuing Directors. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a director shall be deemed to be affiliated with a Related Person if such director (A) is an officer, director, employee or general partner of such Related Person; (B) is an Affiliate or Associate of such Related Person; (C) is a relative or spouse of such Related Person or of any such officer, director, general partner, Affiliate or Associate; (D) performs services, or is a member, employee, greater than 5% stockholder or other equity owner of any organization (other than the Corporation and its subsidiaries) which performs services for such Related Person or any Affiliate of such Related Person, or is a relative or spouse of any such Person; or (E) was nominated for election as a director by such Related Person. (vi) The term "Fair Market Value" shall mean, in the case of securities, the average of the closing sales prices during the 30-day period immediately preceding the date in question of such security on the principal United States securities exchange registered under the Exchange Act on which such security is listed (or the composite tape therefor) or, if such securities are not listed on any such exchange, the average of the last reported sales price (if so reported) or the closing bid quotations with respect to such security during the 30-day period preceding the date in question on the New York Stock Exchange or, if no such quotations are available, the fair market value on the date in question of such security as determined in good faith by a majority of the Continuing Directors; and in the case of property other than cash or securities, the fair market value of such property on the date in question as determined in good faith by a majority of the Continuing Directors. (vii) The term "Highest Per Share Price" shall mean, with respect to a Related Person, the highest price that can be determined to have been paid or agreed to be paid for any share or shares of any class or series of Voting Stock by such Related Person in a transaction that either (1) resulted in such Related Person's Beneficially Owning 15% or more of such class or series of Voting Stock outstanding or (2) was effected at a time when such Related Person Beneficially Owned 15% or more of such class or series of Voting Stock outstanding, in either case occurring not more than one year prior to the date of the Business Combination. In determining the Highest Per Share Price, appropriate adjustment will be made to take into account (w) distributions paid or payable in stock, (x) subdivisions of outstanding stock, (y) combinations of shares of stock into a smaller number of shares and (z) similar events. (viii) The term "Person" shall mean any individual, corporation, limited liability company, association, partnership, joint venture, trust, estate or other entity or organization. (ix) The term "Related Person" shall mean any Person (other than the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation and other than any profit sharing, employee ownership or other employee benefit plan of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the corporation or any trustee of or fiduciary with respect to any such plan when acting in such capacity) who or which (A) is the Beneficial Owner of 15% or more of any class or series of Voting Stock outstanding; or (B) is an Affiliate of the Corporation and at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question was the Beneficial Owner of 15% or more of any class or series of Voting Stock outstanding. For the purposes of determining whether a Person is a Related Person, the number of shares of any class or series deemed to be outstanding shall -8-
include shares of such class or series of which the Person is deemed the Beneficial Owner, but shall not include any other shares which may be issuable pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, otherwise. D. Nothing contained in this Article EIGHTH shall be construed to relieve any Related Person from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law. E. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Certificate of Incorporation (and notwithstanding that a lesser percentage may be specified by law), the affirmative vote of shares representing (x) not less than 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the Voting Stock voting together as a single class and (y) not less than 66-2/3% of the votes entitled to be cast by the Voting Stock not Beneficially Owned, directly or indirectly, by any Related Person shall be required to amend or repeal, or adopt any provisions inconsistent with, this Article EIGHTH. NINTH: To the fullest extent that the DGCL or any other law of the State of Delaware as it exists or as it may hereafter be amended permits the limitation or elimination of the liability of directors, no director of the Corporation shall be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director. No amendment to or repeal of this Article NINTH shall apply to or have any effect on the liability or alleged liability of any director of the Corporation for or with respect to any acts or omissions of such director occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS of SERIES A JUNIOR PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK of CONOCOPHILLIPS (Pursuant to Section 151 of the Delaware General Corporation Law) --------------------------- CONOCOPHILLIPS, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (hereinafter called the "CORPORATION"), hereby certifies that the following resolution was adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation as required by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law acting by written consent pursuant to Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law on June 30, 2002: RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the Board of Directors of this Corporation (hereinafter called the "BOARD OF DIRECTORS" or the "BOARD") in accordance with the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors hereby creates a series of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation (the "Preferred Stock"), and hereby states the designation and number of shares, and fixes the relative rights, powers, preferences, and limitations thereof as follows: Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock: SECTION 1. DESIGNATION AND AMOUNT. The shares of such series shall be designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" (the "SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK") and the number of shares constituting the Series A Preferred Stock shall be 10,000,000. Such number of shares may be increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors; PROVIDED, that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding plus the number of shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, rights or warrants or upon the conversion of any outstanding securities issued by the Corporation convertible into Series A Preferred Stock. SECTION 2. DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS. (A) Subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock (or any similar stock) ranking prior and superior to the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock, in preference to the holders of Common Stock, par value $.01 per share (the "COMMON STOCK"), of the Corporation, and of any other junior stock, shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quar-
terly dividends payable in cash on the first day of March, June, September and December in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $1 or (b) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 100 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 100 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions, other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event. (B) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $1 per share on the Series A Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. (C) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred -2-
Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof. SECTION 3. VOTING RIGHTS. The holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights: (A) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 100 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of Common Stock of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event. (B) Except as otherwise provided herein, in any other Certificate of Designations creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock, or by law, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock and any other capital stock of the Corporation having general voting rights shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation. (C) Except as set forth herein, or as otherwise provided by law, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action. SECTION 4. CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS. (A) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not: (i) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock; (ii) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which divi- -3-
dends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled; (iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock; or (iv) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes. (B) The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (A) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner. SECTION 5. REACQUIRED SHARES. Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein, in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, or in any other Certificate of Designations creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock or as otherwise required by law. SECTION 6. LIQUIDATION, DISSOLUTION OR WINDING UP. Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made (1) to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have received $100 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment, provided that the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an aggregate amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 100 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of shares of Common Stock, or (2) to the holders of shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except distributions made ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are entitled upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the -4-
Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the aggregate amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under the proviso in clause (1) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event. SECTION 7. CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, ETC. In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed into an amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 100 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event. SECTION 8. NO REDEMPTION. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable. SECTION 9. RANK. The Series A Preferred Stock shall rank, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, junior to all series of any other class of the Corporation's Preferred Stock. SECTION 10. AMENDMENT. The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation shall not be amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class. -5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations is executed on behalf of the Corporation by its President this 30th day of August, 2002. /s/ J. BRYAN WHITWORTH ------------------------------- Name: J. Bryan Whitworth Title: President -6-

BY-LAWS OF CONOCOPHILLIPS (hereinafter called the "Corporation") ARTICLE I OFFICES Section 1. REGISTERED OFFICE. The registered office of the Corporation shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware. Section 2. OTHER OFFICES. The Corporation may also have offices at such other places both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine. ARTICLE II MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS Section 1. PLACE AND TIME OF MEETINGS. Meetings of the stockholders for the election of directors or for any other purpose shall be held at such time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors. Subject to applicable law, the Board of Directors may elect to postpone any previously scheduled meeting of stockholders. Section 2. ANNUAL MEETINGS. The annual meetings of stockholders for the election of directors shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors. Any other proper business may be transacted at the annual meeting of stockholders. Section 3. SPECIAL MEETINGS. Unless otherwise required by law or by the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as amended and restated from time to time (including any certificates of designation with respect to any Preferred Stock, the "Certificate of Incorporation"), special meetings of stockholders, for any purpose or purposes, may only be called by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution stating the purpose or purposes thereof or by the Chairman, if there be one, and any power of stockholders to call a special meeting is specifically denied. Written notice of a special meeting stating the place, date and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting as shall be specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto).
Section 4. ADJOURNMENTS. Any meeting of the stockholders may be adjourned by the chairman of the meeting or by the stockholders or their proxies in attendance, from time to time, to reconvene at the same or some other place, and notice need not be given of any such adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting, the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting. Section 5. QUORUM. Unless otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, the presence in person or by proxy of the holders of shares of capital stock entitled to cast a majority of the votes which could be cast at such meeting by the holders of all the outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote at such meeting shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business. A quorum, once established, shall not be broken by the withdrawal of enough votes to leave less than a quorum. If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, in the manner provided in Section 4, until a quorum shall be present or represented. Section 6. VOTING. Unless otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws or any rule or regulation of any stock exchange or regulatory body applicable to the Corporation, any question brought before any meeting of stockholders, other than the election of directors, shall be decided by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the votes of shares of capital stock present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the question, voting as a single class. Every reference in these By-Laws to a majority or other proportion of shares, or a majority or other proportion of the votes of shares, of capital stock shall refer to such majority or other proportion of the votes to which such shares of capital stock are entitled as provided in the Certificate of Incorporation. Votes of stockholders entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders may be cast in person or by proxy but no proxy shall be voted on or after three years from its date, unless such proxy provides for a longer period. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, or the officer of the Corporation presiding at a meeting of stockholders, in such officer's discretion, may require that any votes cast at such meeting shall be cast by written ballot. Section 7. NO ACTION BY CONSENT OF STOCKHOLDERS IN LIEU OF MEETING. Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation may be effected only at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be effected by a consent in writing by such holders in lieu of such a meeting. Section 8. LIST OF STOCKHOLDERS ENTITLED TO VOTE. The officer of the Corporation who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder for any purpose germane to the meeting for a -2-
period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, as required by applicable law. Subject to applicable law, the list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder of the Corporation who is present. Section 9. STOCK LEDGER. The stock ledger of the Corporation shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list required by Section 8 of this Article II or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders. Section 10. NOMINATION OF DIRECTORS. Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors of the Corporation, except as may be otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation with respect to the right of holders of Preferred Stock of the Corporation to nominate and elect a specified number of directors in certain circumstances. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at any annual meeting of stockholders (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 10 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 10. In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a nomination to be made by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the later of (i) ninety (90) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders and (ii) the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs. To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by the person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice (i) the name and record address of such stockholder, (ii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the -3-
Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder, (iii) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nomination (s) are to be made by such stockholder, (iv) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to nominate the persons named in its notice and (v) any other information relating to such stockholder that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected. No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 10. If the chairman of the annual meeting determines that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the chairman shall declare to the meeting that the nomination was defective and such defective nomination shall be disregarded. Section 11. BUSINESS AT ANNUAL MEETINGS. No business may be transacted at an annual meeting of stockholders, other than business that is either (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof), (b) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (c) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 11 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 11. In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the later of (i) ninety (90) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders and (ii) the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs. To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth as to each matter such stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (ii) the name and record address of such -4-
stockholder, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder, (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder and any material interest of such stockholder in such business and (v) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting. No business shall be conducted at the annual meeting of stockholders except business brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 11; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that, once business has been properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with such procedures, nothing in this Section 11 shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any stockholder of any such business. If the chairman of an annual meeting determines that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the chairman shall declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting and such business shall not be transacted. Section 12. CONDUCT OF MEETINGS. The Board of Directors of the Corporation may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meetings of the stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the chairman of any meeting of the stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the chairman of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) the determination of when the polls shall open and close for any given matter to be voted on at the meeting; (iii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iv) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the chairman of the meeting shall determine; (v) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; (vi) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants; and (vii) policies and procedures with respect to the adjournment of such meeting. ARTICLE III DIRECTORS Section 1. NUMBER, CLASSIFICATION AND QUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS. (a) The Board of Directors shall consist initially of 16 members with the exact number of directors to be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. The directors shall be divided into three (3) classes, designated Class I, Class II and Class III, as provided in the Certificate of Incorporation. Any director may resign at any time upon written notice to the Corporation. Directors need not be stockholders. Subject to applicable law, any person shall be eligible for election as a director; PROVIDED that (i) in the case of a director who is also an employee of the Corporation, subject to Section 12 of Article IV and the employment agreements referred to -5-
therein, any person (A) who shall have attained the age of 65 shall be ineligible for election or appointment as a director and (B) who ceases to be an employee of the Corporation shall be disqualified from continued service as a director and such person's term of office as a director shall automatically terminate and (ii) in the case of any director, (A) any person who shall have attained the age of 70 shall be ineligible for election or appointment as a director and (B) any person who shall have attained the age of 70 shall be disqualified from continued service as a director and such person's term of office as a director shall automatically terminate as of the date such director attains the age of 70; provided that this clause (ii)(B) shall not apply during a director's initial term of office if such director was elected to the Board of Directors effective as of the effective time of the merger of P Merger Corp. with and into Phillips Petroleum Company and the merger of C Merger Corp. with and into Conoco Inc. (b) There shall be no limitation on the qualification of any person to be a director or on the ability of any director to vote on any matter brought before the Board or any Board committee, except (i) as required by applicable law, (ii) as set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or (iii) as set forth in the foregoing Section 1(a) of this Article III or (iv) in any By-Law adopted by the Board of Directors with respect to the eligibility for election as a director upon reaching a specified age or, in the case of employee directors, with respect to the qualification for continuing service of directors upon cessation of employment with the Corporation. Section 2. VACANCIES. Unless otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, vacancies arising through death, resignation, removal, an increase in the number of directors or otherwise may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director, or by the stockholders if such vacancy resulted from the action of stockholders (in which event such vacancy may not be filled by the directors or a majority thereof), and the directors so chosen shall hold office until the next election for such class and until their successors are duly elected and qualified, or until their earlier death, resignation or removal. Section 3. DUTIES AND POWERS. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors which may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders. Section 4. MEETINGS. The Board of Directors may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or without the State of Delaware. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and at such place as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman, if there be one, the President, or by any director. Notice thereof stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each director either by mail not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time of the meeting, by telephone, telegram, facsimile transmission or other electronic transmission not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the time of the meeting, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances. -6-
Section 5. QUORUM. Except as otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, at all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the entire Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting of the time and place of the adjourned meeting, until a quorum shall be present. Section 6. ACTIONS BY WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE BOARD. Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all the members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions as are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee. Section 7. MEETINGS BY MEANS OF CONFERENCE TELEPHONE. Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of a conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 7 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting. Section 8. STANDING COMMITTEES. (a) The Board of Directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board, shall appoint from among its members (i) an Executive Committee, (ii) an Audit and Compliance Committee, (iii) a Compensation Committee, (iv) a Committee on Directors' Affairs and (v) a Public Policy Committee (together, the "Standing Committees") each consisting of three (3) (or such greater number as the Board of Directors may designate) directors, to perform the functions traditionally performed by such Board committees. (b) The Executive Committee shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it, in each case, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. (c) The Committee on Directors' Affairs shall meet at the discretion of the Committee Chairman and have the following powers and duties: (i) evaluating and recommending director candidates to the Board of Directors, (ii) recommending committee assignments to the Board of Directors, (iii) assessing the performance of the Board of Directors, (iv) recommending director compensation and benefits policy for the Corporation, and (v) periodically reviewing the Corporation's corporate governance profile. Only persons recommended by the Committee on Directors' Affairs shall be eligible for nomination by the Board of Directors for election as directors or to fill a vacancy, but if the Board of Directors does not approve of one or more of the persons recommended by the Committee on Directors' Affairs, -7-
the Committee shall submit a recommendation of other persons by the date specified by the Board of Directors. Section 9. COMMITTEES. The Board of Directors may designate one or more other committees (in addition to the Standing Committees), each such other committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. With respect to all Board committees, the Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of any such committee. With respect to all Board committees, in the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, and in the absence of a designation by the Board of Directors of an alternate member to replace the absent or disqualified member, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any absent or disqualified member. Any Board committee, to the extent permitted by law and provided in the resolution establishing such committee, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. Each Board committee shall keep regular minutes and report to the Board of Directors when required. Section 10. COMPENSATION. The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and shall receive such compensation for their services as directors as shall be determined by the Board of Directors. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of Board committees may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings. Section 11. REMOVAL. A director may only be removed for cause, such removal to be by the affirmative vote of the shares representing a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the Voting Stock. For purposes of these By-Laws, Voting Stock shall mean the then outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors and shall exclude any class or series of capital stock only entitled to vote in the event of dividend arrearages thereon, whether or not at the time of determination there are any dividend arrearages. Unless the Board of Directors has made a determination that removal is in the best interests of the Corporation (in which case the following definition shall not apply), "cause" for removal of a director shall be deemed to exist only if (i) the director whose removal is proposed has been convicted, or when a director is granted immunity to testify when another has been convicted, of a felony by a court of competent jurisdiction and such conviction is no longer subject to direct appeal; (ii) such director has been found by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors called for that purpose, or by a court of competent jurisdiction to have been guilty of willful misconduct in the performance of his duties to the Corporation in a matter of substantial importance to the Corporation; or (iii) such director has been adjudicated by a court of competent jurisdiction to be mentally incompetent, which mental incompetency directly affects his ability as a director of the Corporation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever holders of outstanding shares of one or more series of Preferred Stock are entitled to elect directors of the Corporation pursuant to the provisions applicable in the case of arrearages in the payment of dividends or other defaults -8-
contained in the resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors providing for the establishment of any such series, any such director of the Corporation so elected may be removed in accordance with the provisions of such resolution or resolutions. ARTICLE IV OFFICERS Section 1. GENERAL. The officers of the Corporation shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and shall be a Chief Executive Officer; President, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, also may choose a Chairman of the Board (who must be a director) and one or more Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and other officers; PROVIDED that for so long as the Employment Agreements are in effect, the Board of Directors, subject to their fiduciary duties, shall elect the Chairman of the Board as specified therein. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law or the Certificate of Incorporation. The officers of the Corporation need not be stockholders of the Corporation nor, except in the case of the Chairman of the Board, need such officers be directors of the Corporation. Section 2. ELECTION. The Board of Directors, at its first meeting held after each annual meeting of stockholders, shall elect the officers of the Corporation who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors; and all officers of the Corporation shall hold office until their successors are chosen and qualified, or until their earlier death, resignation or removal. Subject to Section 12 of this Article IV, any officer elected by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time by the affirmative vote of the Board of Directors. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation shall be filled by the Board of Directors. Section 3. VOTING SECURITIES OWNED BY THE CORPORATION. Powers of attorney, proxies, waivers of notice of meeting, consents and other instruments relating to securities owned by the Corporation may be executed in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation by the President or any Vice President or any other officer authorized to do so by the Board of Directors and any such officer may, in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, take all such action as any such officer may deem advisable to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of security holders of any corporation in which the Corporation may own securities and at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and power incident to the ownership of such securities and which, as the owner thereof, the Corporation might have exercised and possessed if present. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, from time to time confer like powers upon any other person or persons. Section 4. CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall preside at meetings of the Board and of the Corporation's stockholders. The Chairman shall work with the Chief Executive Officer on external stakeholder relations (community, state, federal and foreign governments), business development (growth) initiatives, and the creation of an outstanding and cohesive Board of Directors; and shall have such other executive responsibilities as the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer may agree. The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer shall jointly recommend to the Board of Directors the -9-
long-range strategic plan for the Corporation, major acquisitions and divestitures, and major changes to the Corporation's capital structure. With respect to all other matters, the Chief Executive Officer shall, in consultation with the Chairman, arrange the agenda for meetings of the Board, and shall report to the Board and arrange for other executives and advisors to report to the Board. Section 5. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER; PRESIDENT. The Chief Executive Officer shall have general responsibility for the management of the Corporation as provided in these By-laws, reporting directly to the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer shall have all the customary duties and responsibilities of such office, and all of the Corporation's executive officers shall report directly to him or indirectly to him through another such executive officer who reports to him. The Chief Executive Officer shall also be the President. While Archie Dunham is serving as Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer shall work with the Chairman on external stakeholder relations (community, state, federal and foreign governments), business development (growth) initiatives, and the creation of an outstanding and cohesive Board of Directors. Furthermore, while Archie Dunham is Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman shall jointly recommend to the Board of Directors the long-range strategic plan for the Corporation, major acquisitions and divestitures, and major changes to the Corporation's capital structure. With respect to all other matters, the Chief Executive Officer shall, in consultation with the Chairman, arrange the agenda for meetings of the Board, and shall report to the Board and arrange for other executives and advisors to report to the Board. Section 6. VICE PRESIDENTS. At the request of the Chief Executive Officer or in the Chief Executive Officer's absence or in the event of the Chief Executive Officer's inability or refusal to act (and if there be no Chairman of the Board), the Vice President, or the Vice Presidents if there is more than one, to the extent expressly authorized at such time by the Board of Directors, shall perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Chief Executive Officer. Each Vice President shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors from time to time may prescribe. If there be no Chairman of the Board and no Vice President, the Board of Directors shall designate the officer of the Corporation who, in the absence of the Chief Executive Officer or in the event of the inability or refusal of the Chief Executive Officer to act, shall perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Chief Executive Officer. Section 7. SECRETARY. The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and all meetings of stockholders and record all the proceedings thereat in a book or books to be kept for that purpose; the Secretary shall also perform like duties for committees of the Board of Directors when required. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, under whose supervision the Secretary shall be. If the Secretary shall be unable or shall refuse to cause to be given notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and if there be no Assistant Secretary, then either the Board of Directors or the President may choose another officer to cause such notice to be given. The Secretary shall have custody of the seal of the Corporation and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, if there be one, shall have authority to affix the same to any -10-
instrument requiring it and when so affixed, it may be attested by the signature of the Secretary or by the signature of any such Assistant Secretary. The Board of Directors may give general authority to any other officer to affix the seal of the Corporation and to attest to the affixing by such officer's signature. The Secretary shall see that all books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept or filed are properly kept or filed, as the case may be. Section 8. TREASURER. The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the President and the Board of Directors, at its regular meetings, or when the Board of Directors so requires, an account of all transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation. If required by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of the office of the Treasurer and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of the Treasurer's death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in the Treasurer's possession or under the Treasurer's control belonging to the Corporation. Section 9. ASSISTANT SECRETARIES. Assistant Secretaries, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the President, any Vice President, if there be one, or the Secretary, and in the absence of the Secretary or in the event of the Secretary's disability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Secretary, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Secretary. Section 10. ASSISTANT TREASURERS. Assistant Treasurers, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the President, any Vice President, if there be one, or the Treasurer, and in the absence of the Treasurer or in the event of the Treasurer's disability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Treasurer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Treasurer. If required by the Board of Directors, an Assistant Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of the office of Assistant Treasurer and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of the Assistant Treasurer's death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in the Assistant Treasurer's possession or under the Assistant Treasurer's control belonging to the Corporation. Section 11. OTHER OFFICERS. Such other officers as the Board of Directors may choose shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may delegate to any other officer of the Corporation the power to choose such other officers and to prescribe their respective duties and powers. -11-
Section 12. SUCCESSION ARRANGEMENTS. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of these By-Laws, the election of individuals to the positions of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer shall be as specifically provided for in the Employment Agreements between the Corporation and Archie Dunham and James J. Mulva, dated as of November 18, 2001 (the "Employment Agreements"), and (1) the election of any other individual to such positions, or (2) the removal or replacement of Archie Dunham or James J. Mulva from one or more of those positions, shall require a two-thirds vote of the entire Board of Directors. (b) Any amendment to, modification or termination by the Company of, either of the Employment Agreements by the Corporation and any amendment, alteration or repeal of, or the adoption of any provision inconsistent with, Section 4, 5 or 12 of this Article IV by the Board of Directors, shall require a two-thirds vote of the entire Board of Directors. (c) This Section 12 will terminate at the earlier of (1) the first date on which neither Archie Dunham nor James J. Mulva remains employed under the relevant Employment Agreement and (2) the later of (A) the second anniversary of the closing date of the merger contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 18, 2001, by and among Phillips Petroleum Company, CorvettePorsche Corp., Porsche Merger Corp., Corvette Merger Corp. and Conoco Inc. and (B) October 1, 2004. ARTICLE V STOCK Section 1. UNCERTIFICATED AND CERTIFICATED SHARES; FORM OF CERTIFICATES. Effective at such time as the President or any Vice President or the Treasurer of the Corporation, if so authorized by resolution of the Board of Directors, designates in writing to the Corporate Secretary and any transfer agents of the Corporation with respect to any class of stock of the Corporation, the shares of such class shall be uncertificated shares, PROVIDED that the foregoing shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation, and PROVIDED FURTHER that upon request every holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled, to the extent provided in Section 158 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to have a certificate signed, in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, President or a Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, certifying the number of shares owned by such stockholder in the Corporation. Section 2. SIGNATURES. Any or all of the signatures on a certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue. Section 3. LOST CERTIFICATES. The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate to be issued in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to -12-
have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or the owner's legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as the Board of Directors shall require and/or to give the Corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the Corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed or the issuance of such new certificate. Section 4. TRANSFERS. Stock of the Corporation shall be transferable in the manner prescribed by law and in these By-Laws. Transfers of stock shall be made on the books of the Corporation only by the person named as the holder thereof on the stock records of the Corporation by such person's attorney lawfully constituted in writing, and in the case of shares represented by a certificate upon the surrender of the certificate therefor, which shall be canceled before a new certificate shall be issued. No transfer of stock shall be valid as against the Corporation for any purpose until it shall have been entered in the stock records of the Corporation by an entry showing from and to whom transferred. To the extent designated by the President or any Vice President or the Treasurer of the Corporation, the Corporation may recognize the transfer of fractional uncertificated shares, but shall not otherwise be required to recognize the transfer of fractional shares. Section 5. RECORD DATE. (a) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting. (b) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than sixty (60) days prior to such action. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. -13-
Section 6. RECORD OWNERS. The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its books as the owner of shares, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise required by law. ARTICLE VI NOTICES Section 1. NOTICES. Whenever written notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, to be given to any director, member of a committee or stockholder, such notice may be given by mail, addressed to such director, member of a committee or stockholder, at such person's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid, and such notice shall be deemed to be given at the time when the same shall be deposited in the United States mail. Notice may also be given personally, or by telegram, telex, cable or electronic transmission to the extent permitted by applicable law. Section 2. WAIVERS OF NOTICE. Whenever any notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, to be given to any director, member of a committee or stockholder, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to said notice or by electronic transmission, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto. Attendance of a person at a meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except where the person attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. ARTICLE VII GENERAL PROVISIONS Section 1. DIVIDENDS. Dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the requirements of the Delaware General Corporation Law and the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors (or any action by written consent in lieu thereof in accordance with Section 6 of Article III hereof), and may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the Corporation's capital stock. Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in its absolute discretion, deems proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for any proper purpose, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve. -14-
Section 2. DISBURSEMENTS. All checks or demands for money and notes of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such other person or persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate. Section 3. FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors. Section 4. CORPORATE SEAL. The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its organization and the words "Corporate Seal, Delaware". The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise. ARTICLE VIII INDEMNIFICATION Section 1. POWER TO INDEMNIFY IN ACTIONS, SUITS OR PROCEEDINGS OTHER THAN THOSE BY OR IN THE RIGHT OF THE Corporation. Subject to Section 3 of this Article VIII, the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was a director or officer of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe such person's conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that such person's conduct was unlawful. Section 2. POWER TO INDEMNIFY IN ACTIONS, SUITS OR PROCEEDINGS BY OR IN THE RIGHT OF THE CORPORATION. Subject to Section 3 of this Article VIII, the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was a director or officer of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation; except that no indemnification -15-
shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation unless and only to the extent that the Court of Chancery or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper. Section 3. AUTHORIZATION OF INDEMNIFICATION. Any indemnification under this Article VIII (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the director or officer is proper in the circumstances because such person has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article VIII, as the case may be. Such determination shall be made, with respect to a person who is a director or officer at the time of such determination, (i) by a majority vote of the directors who are not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, even though less than a quorum, or (ii) by a committee of such directors designated by a majority vote of such directors, even though less than a quorum, or (iii) if there are no such directors, or if such directors so direct, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion or (iv) by the stockholders. Such determination shall be made, with respect to former directors and officers, by any person or persons having the authority to act on the matter on behalf of the Corporation. To the extent, however, that a present or former director or officer of the Corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding described above, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, such person shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection therewith, without the necessity of authorization in the specific case. Section 4. GOOD FAITH DEFINED. For purposes of any determination under Section 3 of this Article VIII, a person shall be deemed to have acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, or, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, to have had no reasonable cause to believe such person's conduct was unlawful, if such person's action is based on good faith reliance on the records or books of account of the Corporation or another enterprise, or on information supplied to such person by the officers of the Corporation or another enterprise in the course of their duties, or on the advice of legal counsel for the Corporation or another enterprise or on information or records given or reports made to the Corporation or another enterprise by an independent certified public accountant or by an appraiser or other expert selected with reasonable care by the Corporation or another enterprise. The term "another enterprise" as used in this Section 4 shall mean any other corporation or any partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise of which such person is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent. The provisions of this Section 4 shall not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit in any way the circumstances in which a person may be deemed to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 or 2 of this Article VIII, as the case may be. Section 5. INDEMNIFICATION BY A COURT. Notwithstanding any contrary determination in the specific case under Section 3 of this Article VIII, and notwithstanding the absence of any determination thereunder, any director or officer may apply to the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware for indemnification to the extent otherwise permissible under -16-
Sections 1 and 2 of this Article VIII. The basis of such indemnification by a court shall be a determination by such court that indemnification of the director or officer is proper in the circumstances because such person has met the applicable standards of conduct set forth in Section 1 or 2 of this Article VIII, as the case may be. Neither a contrary determination in the specific case under Section 3 of this Article VIII nor the absence of any determination thereunder shall be a defense to such application or create a presumption that the director or officer seeking indemnification has not met any applicable standard of conduct. Notice of any application for indemnification pursuant to this Section 5 shall be given to the Corporation promptly upon the filing of such application. If successful, in whole or in part, the director or officer seeking indemnification shall also be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such application. Section 6. EXPENSES PAYABLE IN ADVANCE. Expenses incurred by a director or officer in defending any civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit or proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Article VIII. Section 7. NONEXCLUSIVITY OF INDEMNIFICATION AND ADVANCEMENT OF EXPENSES. The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by or granted pursuant to this Article VIII shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under the Certificate of Incorporation, any By-Law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in such person's official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, it being the policy of the Corporation that indemnification of the persons specified in Sections 1 and 2 of this Article VIII shall be made to the fullest extent permitted by law. The provisions of this Article VIII shall not be deemed to preclude the indemnification of any person who is not specified in Section 1 or 2 of this Article VIII but whom the Corporation has the power or obligation to indemnify under the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or otherwise. Section 8. INSURANCE. The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was a director or officer of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against any liability asserted against such person and incurred by such person in any such capacity, or arising out of such person's status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power or the obligation to indemnify such person against such liability under the provisions of this Article VIII. Section 9. CERTAIN DEFINITIONS. For purposes of this Article VIII, references to "the Corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors or officers, so that any person who is or was a director or officer of such constituent corporation, or is or was a director or officer of such constituent corporation serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another -17-
corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Article VIII with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as such person would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued. For purposes of this Article VIII, references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the Corporation" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director or officer with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation" as referred to in this Article VIII. Section 10. SURVIVAL OF INDEMNIFICATION AND ADVANCEMENT OF EXPENSES. The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Article VIII shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified, continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person. Section 11. LIMITATION ON INDEMNIFICATION. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article VIII to the contrary, except for proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification (which shall be governed by Section 5 of this Article VIII), the Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify any director or officer in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person unless such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized or consented to by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. Section 12. INDEMNIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS. The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, provide rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses to employees and agents of the Corporation similar to those conferred in this Article VIII to directors and officers of the Corporation. ARTICLE IX AMENDMENTS Section 1. AMENDMENTS. These By-Laws may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, and new By-Laws may be adopted (i) by the affirmative vote of the shares representing a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the Voting Stock; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that any proposed alteration, amendment or repeal of, or the adoption of any By-Law inconsistent with, Section 3, 7, 10 or 11 of Article II of these By-Laws or Section 1, 2 or 11 of Article III of these By-Laws or Section 4, 5 or 12 of Article IV of these By-Laws or this sentence, by the stockholders shall require the affirmative vote of shares representing not less than 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the Voting Stock; and PROVIDED FURTHER, HOWEVER, that in the case of any such stockholder action at a meeting of stockholders, notice of the proposed alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of the new By-Law or By-Laws must be contained in the notice of such meeting, or (ii) by action of the Board of Directors of the Corporation. The provisions of this Section 1 are subject to any contrary provisions and any provisions requiring a -18-
greater vote that are set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation and in Section 12 of Article IV of these By-Laws. Section 2. ENTIRE BOARD OF DIRECTORS. As used in these By-Laws generally, the term "entire Board of Directors" means the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies. -19-

--------------------------------------------- CONOCOPHILLIPS And MELLON INVESTOR SERVICES LLC as Rights Agent Rights Agreement Dated as of June 30, 2002 ---------------------------------------------
TABLE OF CONTENTS Page NUMBER Section 1. Definitions....................................... 1 Section 2. Appointment of Rights Agent....................... 7 Section 3. Issue of Right Certificates....................... 7 Section 4. Form of Right Certificates........................ 10 Section 5. Countersignature and Registration................. 10 Section 6. Transfer, Split Up, Combination and Exchange of Right Certificates; Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Right Certificates................. 11 Section 7. Exercise of Rights; Purchase Price; Expiration Date of Rights......................... 13 Section 8. Cancellation and Destruction of Right Certificates...................................... 14 Section 9. Availability of Preferred Shares.................. 15 Section 10. Preferred Shares Record Date...................... 16 Section 11. Adjustment of Purchase Price, Number of Shares or Number of Rights........................ 16 Section 12. Certificate of Adjusted Purchase Price or Number of Shares .............................. 27 Section 13. Consolidation, Merger or Sale or Transfer of Assets or Earning Power........................ 28 Section 14. Fractional Rights and Fractional Shares........... 29 Section 15. Rights of Action.................................. 31 Section 16. Agreement of Right Holders........................ 32 Section 17. Right Certificate Holder Not Deemed a Stockholder....................................... 33 Section 18. Concerning the Rights Agent....................... 33 Section 19. Merger or Consolidation or Change of Name of Rights Agent.............................. 34 -i-
Page NUMBER Section 20. Duties of Rights Agent............................ 35 Section 21. Change of Rights Agent............................ 38 Section 22. Issuance of New Right Certificates................ 40 Section 23. Redemption........................................ 40 Section 24 Exchange.......................................... 41 Section 25 Notice of Certain Events.......................... 44 Section 26 Notices........................................... 45 Section 27 Supplements and Amendments........................ 46 Section 28 Successors........................................ 47 Section 29 Benefits of this Agreement........................ 47 Section 30 Severability...................................... 48 Section 31 Governing Law..................................... 48 Section 32 Counterparts...................................... 48 Section 33 Descriptive Headings.............................. 48 Signatures....................................................... 46 Exhibit A - Form of Certificate of Designations Exhibit B - Form of Right Certificate Exhibit C - Summary of Rights to Purchase Preferred Shares -ii-
Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2002, between CONOCOPHILLIPS, a Delaware corporation (the "COMPANY"), and MELLON INVESTOR SERVICES LLC, a New Jersey limited liability company, as rights agent (the "RIGHTS AGENT"). The Board of Directors of the Company has authorized and declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right (a "RIGHT") for each Common Share (as hereinafter defined) of the Company outstanding on June 30, 2002 (the "RECORD DATE"), each Right representing the right to purchase one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share (as hereinafter defined), upon the terms and subject to the conditions herein set forth, and has further authorized and directed the issuance of one Right with respect to each Common Share that shall become outstanding between the Record Date and the earliest of the Distribution Date, the Redemption Date and the Final Expiration Date (as such terms are hereinafter defined). Accordingly, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements herein set forth, the parties hereby agree as follows: Section 1. DEFINITIONS. For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings indicated: (a) "ACQUIRING PERSON" shall mean any Person who or which, together with all Affiliates and Associates of such Person, shall be the Beneficial Owner of 15% or more of the Common Shares of the Company then outstanding, but shall not include Conoco (as defined below), Phillips (as defined below), the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company, any employee benefit plan of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, or any entity holding Common Shares for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Person shall become an "Acquiring Person" as the result of an acquisition of Common Shares by the
Company which, by reducing the number of Common Shares of the Company outstanding, increases the proportionate number of Common Shares of the Company beneficially owned by such Person to 15% or more of the Common Shares of the Company then outstanding; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that, if a Person shall become the Beneficial Owner of 15% or more of the Common Shares of the Company then outstanding by reason of share purchases by the Company and shall, after such share purchases by the Company, become the Beneficial Owner of any additional Common Shares of the Company, then such Person shall be deemed to be an "Acquiring Person," unless such Person is not then the Beneficial Owner of 15% or more of the Common Shares of the Company then outstanding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Board of Directors of the Company determines in good faith that a Person who would otherwise be an "Acquiring Person," as defined pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (a), became or has become such inadvertently, and such Person divested or divests as promptly as practicable a sufficient number of Common Shares so that such Person would no longer be an "Acquiring Person," as defined pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (a), then such Person shall not be deemed to be an "Acquiring Person" for any purposes of this Agreement. (b) "AFFILIATE" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act as in effect on the date of this Agreement. (c) "ASSOCIATE" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act as in effect on the date of this Agreement. -2-
(d) A Person shall be deemed the "Beneficial Owner" of and shall be deemed to "beneficially own" any securities: (i) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates beneficially owns, directly or indirectly; (ii) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates has (A) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a BONA FIDE public offering of securities), or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, rights (other than these Rights), warrants or options, or otherwise; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by or on behalf of such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange; or (B) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, any security if the agreement, arrangement or understanding to vote such security (1) arises solely from a revocable proxy or consent given to such Person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and (2) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act (or any comparable or successor report); or -3-
(iii) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other Person and with respect to which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities) for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except to the extent contemplated by the proviso to Section 1(d)(ii)(B) hereof) or disposing of such securities of the Company. Notwithstanding anything in this definition of Beneficial Ownership to the contrary, the phrase "then outstanding," when used with reference to a Person's Beneficial Ownership of securities of the Company, shall mean the number of such securities then issued and outstanding together with the number of such securities not then actually issued and outstanding which such Person would be deemed to own beneficially hereunder. (e) "BUSINESS DAY" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close. (f) "CLOSE OF BUSINESS" on any given date shall mean 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on such date; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that, if such date is not a Business Day, it shall mean 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on the next succeeding Business Day. (g) "COMMON SHARES" when used with reference to the Company shall mean the shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company. "Common Shares" when used with reference to any Person other than the Company shall mean the capital stock (or equity interest) with the greatest voting power of such other Person or, if such other Person is a Subsidi- -4-
ary of another Person, the Person or Persons which ultimately control such first-mentioned Person. (h) "CONOCO" shall mean Conoco Inc., a Delaware corporation. (i) "DISTRIBUTION DATE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a) hereof. (j) "EXCHANGE ACT" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. (k) "EXCHANGE RATIO" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 24(a) hereof. (l) "FINAL EXPIRATION DATE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(a) hereof. (m) "MERGER EFFECTIVE TIME" shall mean the date and time at which the mergers provided for in the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 18, 2001, by and among the Company, Phillips, Conoco, Porsche Merger Corp (now known as P Merger Corp.) and Corvette Merger Corp. (now known as C Merger Corp.) become effective. (n) "NASDAQ" shall mean the Nasdaq Stock Market. (o) "PERSON" shall mean any individual, firm, corporation or other entity, and shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity. (p) "PHILLIPS" shall mean Phillips Petroleum Company, a Delaware corporation. -5-
(q) "PREFERRED SHARES" shall mean shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company having the rights and preferences set forth in the Form of Certificate of Designations attached to this Agreement as Exhibit A. (r) "PURCHASE PRICE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4 hereof. (s) "RECORD DATE" shall have the meaning set forth in the second paragraph hereof. (t) "REDEMPTION DATE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(a) hereof. (u) "REDEMPTION PRICE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 23(a) hereof. (v) "RIGHT" shall have the meaning set forth in the second paragraph hereof. (w) "RIGHT CERTIFICATE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a) hereof. (x) "SHARES ACQUISITION DATE" shall mean the first date of public announcement by the Company or an Acquiring Person that an Acquiring Person has become such. (y) "SUBSIDIARY" of any Person shall mean any corporation or other entity of which a majority of the voting power of the voting equity securities or equity interest is owned, directly or indirectly, by such Person. (z) "SUMMARY OF RIGHTS" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(b) hereof. (aa) "TRADING DAY" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(d) hereof. -6-
Section 2. APPOINTMENT OF RIGHTS AGENT. The Company hereby appoints the Rights Agent to act as agent for the Company in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof, and the Rights Agent hereby accepts such appointment. The Company may from time to time appoint such co-Rights Agents as it may deem necessary or desirable. The Rights Agent shall have no duty to supervise, and in no event shall be liable for, the acts or omissions of any such co-Rights Agent. Section 3. ISSUE OF RIGHT CERTIFICATES. (a) Until the earlier of (i) the Shares Acquisition Date or (ii) such date as may be determined by action of the Board of Directors of the Company (prior to such time as any Person becomes an Acquiring Person) after the date of the commencement by any Person (other than the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company, any employee benefit plan of the Company or of any Subsidiary of the Company or any entity holding Common Shares of the Company for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan) of a tender or exchange offer the consummation of which would result in any Person becoming the Beneficial Owner of Common Shares of the Company aggregating 15% or more of the then outstanding Common Shares of the Company (including any such date which is after the date of this Agreement and prior to the issuance of the Rights; the earlier of such dates being herein referred to as the "DISTRIBUTION DATE"), (x) the Rights will be evidenced (subject to the provisions of Section 3(b) hereof) by the certificates for Common Shares of the Company registered in the names of the holders thereof (which certificates shall also be deemed to be Right Certificates) and not by separate Right Certificates, and (y) the right to receive Right Certificates will be transferable only in connection with the transfer of Common Shares of the Company. As soon as practicable after the Distribution Date, the Company will prepare and execute, the Rights Agent will countersign, and the Company will send or cause to be sent (and the Rights Agent will, if requested -7-
and provided with all necessary information, send) by first-class, insured, postage-prepaid mail, to each record holder of Common Shares of the Company as of the Close of Business on the Distribution Date, at the address of such holder shown on the records of the Company, a Right Certificate, in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto (a "RIGHT CERTIFICATE"), evidencing one Right for each Common Share so held. As of the Distribution Date, the Rights will be evidenced solely by such Right Certificates. (b) On the Record Date, or as soon as practicable thereafter, the Company will send a copy of a Summary of Rights to Purchase Preferred Shares, in substantially the form of Exhibit C hereto (the "SUMMARY OF RIGHTS"), by first-class, postage-prepaid mail, to each record holder of Common Shares as of the Close of Business on the Record Date, at the address of such holder shown on the records of the Company. As soon as practicable after the Merger Effective Time, the Company will send a copy of the Summary of Rights, by first-class, postage-prepaid mail, to each holder of Phillips Common Shares immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time, at the address of such holder shown on the records of Phillips. With respect to certificates for Common Shares of the Company outstanding as of the Record Date, and certificates for Common Shares which immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time represented shares of Phillips Common Stock, until the Distribution Date, the Rights associated with the Common Shares represented by such certificates will be evidenced by such certificates registered in the names of the holders thereof together with a copy of the Summary of Rights attached thereto. Until the Distribution Date (or the earlier of the Redemption Date or the Final Expiration Date), the surrender for transfer of any certificate for Common Shares of the Company outstanding on the Record Date, and certificates for Common Shares which immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time represented shares of Phillips Common Stock, with or without a copy of the Summary of Rights -8-
attached thereto, shall also constitute the transfer of the Rights associated with the Common Shares of the Company represented thereby. The reference in the preceding two sentences to certificates for Common Shares which immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time represented shares of Phillips Common Stock shall be deemed to include any uncertificated Phillips Common Shares as evidenced by the relevant book-entry accounts and the stock distribution statements. (c) Certificates (other than certificates which immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time represented shares of Phillips Common Shares) for Common Shares which become outstanding (including, without limitation, reacquired Common Shares referred to in the last sentence of this paragraph (c)) after the Record Date but prior to the earliest of the Distribution Date, the Redemption Date or the Final Expiration Date shall have impressed on, printed on, written on or otherwise affixed to them the following legend: This certificate also evidences and entitles the holder hereof to certain rights as set forth in an Agreement between CONOCOPHILLIPS and MELLON INVESTOR SERVICES LLC, as Rights Agent, dated as of June 30, 2002, as it may be amended from time to time (the "Agreement"), the terms of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference and a copy of which is on file at the principal executive offices of CONOCOPHILLIPS. Under certain circumstances, as set forth in the Agreement, such Rights (as defined in the Agreement) will be evidenced by separate certificates and will no longer be evidenced by this certificate. CONOCOPHILLIPS will mail to the holder of this certificate a copy of the Agreement without charge after receipt of a written request therefor. As set forth in the Agreement, Rights beneficially owned by any Person (as defined in the Agreement) who becomes an Acquiring Person (as defined in the Agreement) become void. With respect to such certificates containing the foregoing legend, until the Distribution Date, the Rights associated with the Common Shares of the Company represented by such certificates shall be evidenced by such certificates alone, and the surrender for transfer of any such certificate shall also constitute the transfer of the Rights associated with the Common Shares of the Company represented thereby. In the event that the Company purchases or acquires any Com- -9-
mon Shares of the Company after the Record Date but prior to the Distribution Date, any Rights associated with such Common Shares of the Company shall be deemed cancelled and retired so that the Company shall not be entitled to exercise any Rights associated with the Common Shares of the Company which are no longer outstanding. Section 4. FORM OF RIGHT CERTIFICATES. The Right Certificates (and the forms of election to purchase Preferred Shares and of assignment to be printed on the reverse thereof) shall be substantially the same as Exhibit B hereto, and may have such marks of identification or designation and such legends, summaries or endorsements printed thereon as the Company may deem appropriate, which do not affect the duties or responsibilities of the Rights Agent and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, or as may be required to comply with any applicable law or with any applicable rule or regulation made pursuant thereto or with any applicable rule or regulation of any stock exchange or the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., or to conform to usage. Subject to the provisions of Section 22 hereof, the Right Certificates shall entitle the holders thereof to purchase such number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share as shall be set forth therein at the price per one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share set forth therein (the "PURCHASE PRICE"), but the number of such one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share and the Purchase Price shall be subject to adjustment as provided herein. Section 5. COUNTERSIGNATURE AND REGISTRATION. The Right Certificates shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its Chief Executive Officer, its President, any of its Vice Presidents or its Treasurer, either manually or by facsimile signature, shall have affixed thereto the Company's seal or a facsimile thereof, and shall be attested by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company, either manually or by facsimile signature. The Right Certificates shall be manually countersigned by the Rights Agent and shall not be -10-
valid for any purpose unless countersigned. In case any officer of the Company who shall have signed any of the Right Certificates shall cease to be such officer of the Company before countersignature by the Rights Agent and issuance and delivery by the Company, such Right Certificates, nevertheless, may be countersigned by the Rights Agent and issued and delivered by the Company with the same force and effect as though the individual who signed such Right Certificates had not ceased to be such officer of the Company; and any Right Certificate may be signed on behalf of the Company by any individual who, at the actual date of the execution of such Right Certificate, shall be a proper officer of the Company to sign such Right Certificate, although at the date of the execution of this Agreement any such individual was not such an officer. Following the Distribution Date and receipt by the Rights Agent of all necessary information, the Rights Agent will keep or cause to be kept, at its office designated for such purpose pursuant to Section 26 hereof ("Principal Office"), books for registration and transfer of the Right Certificates issued hereunder. Such books shall show the names and addresses of the respective holders of the Right Certificates, the number of Rights evidenced on its face by each of the Right Certificates and the date of each of the Right Certificates. Section 6. TRANSFER, SPLIT UP, COMBINATION AND EXCHANGE OF RIGHT CERTIFICATES; MUTILATED, DESTROYED, LOST OR STOLEN RIGHT CERTIFICATES. Subject to the provisions of Section 14 hereof, at any time after the Close of Business on the Distribution Date, and at or prior to the Close of Business on the earlier of the Redemption Date or the Final Expiration Date, any Right Certificate or Right Certificates (other than Right Certificates representing Rights that have become void pursuant to Section 11(a)(ii) hereof or that have been exchanged pursuant to Section 24 hereof) may be transferred, split up, combined or exchanged for another Right Certificate -11-
or Right Certificates entitling the registered holder to purchase a like number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share as the Right Certificate or Right Certificates surrendered then entitled such holder to purchase. Any registered holder desiring to transfer, split up, combine or exchange any Right Certificate or Right Certificates shall make such request in writing delivered to the Rights Agent, and shall surrender the Right Certificate or Right Certificates to be transferred, split up, combined or exchanged at the principal office of the Rights Agent. Thereupon the Rights Agent shall countersign and deliver to the Person entitled thereto a Right Certificate or Right Certificates, as the case may be, as so requested. The Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any transfer, split up, combination or exchange of Right Certificates. The Rights Agent shall have no duty or obligation under this Section unless and until it is satisfied that all such taxes and/or charges have been paid. Upon receipt by the Company and the Rights Agent of evidence reasonably satisfactory to them of the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of a Right Certificate, and, in case of loss, theft or destruction, of indemnity or security reasonably satisfactory to them, and, at the Company's request, reimbursement to the Company and the Rights Agent of all reasonable expenses incidental thereto, and upon surrender to the Rights Agent and cancellation of the Right Certificate if mutilated, the Company will make and deliver a new Right Certificate of like tenor to the Rights Agent for delivery to the registered holder in lieu of the Right Certificate so lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated. Section 7. EXERCISE OF RIGHTS; PURCHASE PRICE; EXPIRATION DATE OF RIGHTS. (a) The registered holder of any Right Certificate may exercise the Rights evidenced thereby (except as otherwise provided herein), in whole or in part, at any time after the Distribution Date, upon -12-
surrender of the Right Certificate, with the form of election to purchase on the reverse side thereof duly executed, to the Rights Agent at the Principal Office of the Rights Agent, together with payment of the Purchase Price for each one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share as to which the Rights are exercised, at or prior to the earliest of (i) the Close of Business on June 30, 2012 (the "FINAL EXPIRATION DATE"), (ii) the time at which the Rights are redeemed as provided in Section 23 hereof (the "REDEMPTION DATE"), or (iii) the time at which such Rights are exchanged as provided in Section 24 hereof. (b) The Purchase Price for each one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share purchasable pursuant to the exercise of a Right shall initially be $300, and shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in Section 11 or 13 hereof, and shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America in accordance with paragraph (c) below. (c) Upon receipt of a Right Certificate representing exercisable Rights, with the form of election to purchase duly executed, accompanied by payment of the Purchase Price for the shares to be purchased and an amount equal to any applicable transfer tax or charge required to be paid by the holder of such Right Certificate in accordance with Section 9 hereof by certified check, cashier's check or money order payable to the order of the Company, the Rights Agent shall thereupon promptly (i) (A) requisition from any transfer agent of the Preferred Shares certificates for the number of Preferred Shares to be purchased and the Company hereby irrevocably authorizes any such transfer agent to comply with all such requests, or (B) requisition from the depositary agent depositary receipts representing such number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share as are to be purchased (in which case certificates for the Preferred Shares represented by such receipts shall be deposited by the transfer agent of the Preferred Shares with such depositary agent) and the Company hereby directs such depositary agent -13-
to comply with such request; (ii) when appropriate, requisition from the Company the amount of cash to be paid in lieu of issuance of fractional shares in accordance with Section 14 hereof; (iii) promptly after receipt of such certificates or depositary receipts, cause the same to be delivered to or upon the order of the registered holder of such Right Certificate, registered in such name or names as may be designated by such holder; and (iv) when appropriate, after receipt, promptly deliver such cash to or upon the order of the registered holder of such Right Certificate. (d) In case the registered holder of any Right Certificate shall exercise less than all the Rights evidenced thereby, a new Right Certificate evidencing Rights equivalent to the Rights remaining unexercised shall be issued by the Rights Agent to the registered holder of such Right Certificate or to such holder's duly authorized assigns, subject to the provisions of Section 14 hereof. Section 8. CANCELLATION AND DESTRUCTION OF RIGHT CERTIFICATES. All Right Certificates surrendered for the purpose of exercise, transfer, split up, combination or exchange shall, if surrendered to the Company or to any of its agents, be delivered to the Rights Agent for cancellation or in cancelled form, or, if surrendered to the Rights Agent, shall be cancelled by it, and no Right Certificates shall be issued in lieu thereof except as expressly permitted by any of the provisions of this Agreement. The Company shall deliver to the Rights Agent for cancellation and retirement, and the Rights Agent shall so cancel and retire, any other Right Certificate purchased or acquired by the Company otherwise than upon the exercise thereof. The Rights Agent shall deliver all cancelled Right Certificates to the Company, or shall, at the written request of the Company, destroy such cancelled Right Certificates, and, in such case, shall deliver a certificate of destruction thereof to the Company. -14-
Section 9. AVAILABILITY OF PREFERRED SHARES. The Company covenants and agrees that it will cause to be reserved and kept available out of its authorized and unissued Preferred Shares or any Preferred Shares held in its treasury the number of Preferred Shares that will be sufficient to permit the exercise in full of all outstanding Rights in accordance with Section 7 hereof. The Company covenants and agrees that it will take all such action as may be necessary to ensure that all Preferred Shares delivered upon exercise of Rights shall, at the time of delivery of the certificates for such Preferred Shares (subject to payment of the Purchase Price), be duly and validly authorized and issued and fully paid and nonassessable shares. The Company further covenants and agrees that it will pay when due and payable any and all federal and state transfer taxes and charges which may be payable in respect of the issuance or delivery of the Right Certificates or of any Preferred Shares upon the exercise of Rights. The Company shall not, however, be required to pay any transfer tax or charge which may be payable in respect of any transfer or delivery of Right Certificates to a Person other than, or the issuance or delivery of certificates or depositary receipts for the Preferred Shares in a name other than that of, the registered holder of the Right Certificate evidencing Rights surrendered for exercise or to issue or to deliver any certificates or depositary receipts for Preferred Shares upon the exercise of any Rights until any such tax or charge shall have been paid (any such tax being payable by the holder of such Right Certificate at the time of surrender) or until it has been established to the Company's reasonable satisfaction that no such tax or charge is due. Section 10. PREFERRED SHARES RECORD DATE. Each Person in whose name any certificate for Preferred Shares is issued upon the exercise of Rights shall for all purposes be deemed to have become the holder of record of the Preferred Shares represented thereby on, and such certificate shall be dated, the date upon which the Right Certificate evidencing such Rights -15-
was duly surrendered and payment of the Purchase Price (and any applicable transfer taxes or charges) was made; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that, if the date of such surrender and payment is a date upon which the Preferred Shares transfer books of the Company are closed, such Person shall be deemed to have become the record holder of such shares on, and such certificate shall be dated, the next succeeding Business Day on which the Preferred Shares transfer books of the Company are open. Prior to the exercise of the Rights evidenced thereby, the holder of a Right Certificate shall not be entitled to any rights of a holder of Preferred Shares for which the Rights shall be exercisable, including, without limitation, the right to vote, to receive dividends or other distributions or to exercise any preemptive rights, and shall not be entitled to receive any notice of any proceedings of the Company, except as provided herein. Section 11. ADJUSTMENT OF PURCHASE PRICE, NUMBER OF SHARES OR NUMBER OF RIGHTS. The Purchase Price, the number of Preferred Shares covered by each Right and the number of Rights outstanding are subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 11. (a) (i) In the event the Company shall at any time after the date of this Agreement (A) declare a dividend on the Preferred Shares payable in Preferred Shares, (B) subdivide the outstanding Preferred Shares, (C) combine the outstanding Preferred Shares into a smaller number of Preferred Shares or (D) issue any shares of its capital stock in a reclassification of the Preferred Shares (including any such reclassification in connection with a consolidation or merger in which the Company is the continuing or surviving corporation), except as otherwise provided in this Section 11(a), the Purchase Price in effect at the time of the record date for such dividend or of the effective date of such subdivision, combination or reclassification, and the number and kind of shares of capital stock issuable on such date, shall be proportionately -16-
adjusted so that the holder of any Right exercised after such time shall be entitled to receive the aggregate number and kind of shares of capital stock which, if such Right had been exercised immediately prior to such date and at a time when the Preferred Shares transfer books of the Company were open, such holder would have owned upon such exercise and been entitled to receive by virtue of such dividend, subdivision, combination or reclassification; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that in no event shall the consideration to be paid upon the exercise of one Right be less than the aggregate par value of the shares of capital stock of the Company issuable upon exercise of one Right. (ii) Subject to Section 24 hereof, in the event any Person becomes an Acquiring Person, each holder of a Right shall thereafter have a right to receive, upon exercise thereof at a price equal to the then current Purchase Price multiplied by the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share for which a Right is then exercisable (whether or not then exercisable for Preferred Shares), in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and in lieu of Preferred Shares, such number of Common Shares of the Company as shall equal the result obtained by (A) multiplying the then current Purchase Price by the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share for which a Right is then exercisable (whether or not then exercisable for Preferred Shares) and dividing that product by (B) 50% of the then current per share market price of the Common Shares of the Company (determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) on the date of the occurrence of such event. In the event that any Person shall become an Acquiring Person, subject to Section 24, the Company shall not take any action which would eliminate or diminish the benefits intended to be afforded by the Rights. From and after the occurrence of such event, any Rights that are or were acquired or beneficially owned by any Acquiring Person (or any Associate or Affiliate of such Acquiring -17-
Person) shall be void, and any holder of such Rights shall thereafter have no right to exercise such Rights under any provision of this Agreement. No Right Certificate shall be issued pursuant to Section 3 hereof that represents Rights beneficially owned by an Acquiring Person whose Rights would be void pursuant to the preceding sentence or any Associate or Affiliate thereof; no Right Certificate shall be issued at any time upon the transfer of any Rights to an Acquiring Person whose Rights would be void pursuant to the preceding sentence or any Associate or Affiliate thereof or to any nominee of such Acquiring Person, Associate or Affiliate; and any Right Certificate delivered to the Rights Agent for transfer to an Acquiring Person whose Rights would be void pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be cancelled. (iii) In the event that there shall not be sufficient Common Shares issued but not outstanding or authorized but unissued to permit the exercise in full of the Rights in accordance with subparagraph (ii) above, the Company shall take all such action as may be necessary to authorize additional Common Shares for issuance upon exercise of the Rights. In the event the Company shall, after good faith effort, be unable to take all such action as may be necessary to authorize such additional Common Shares, the Company shall substitute, for each Common Share that would otherwise be issuable upon exercise of a Right, a number of Preferred Shares or fraction thereof such that the current per share market price of one Preferred Share multiplied by such number or fraction is equal to the current per share market price of one Common Share as of the date of issuance of such Preferred Shares or fraction thereof. (b) In case the Company shall fix a record date for the issuance of rights, options or warrants to all holders of Preferred Shares entitling them (for a period expiring within 45 calendar days after such record date) to subscribe for or purchase Preferred Shares (or shares having the same rights, privileges and preferences as the Preferred Shares ("EQUIVALENT PREFERRED -18-
SHARES")) or securities convertible into Preferred Shares or equivalent preferred shares at a price per Preferred Share or equivalent preferred share (or having a conversion price per share, if a security convertible into Preferred Shares or equivalent preferred shares) less than the then current per share market price of the Preferred Shares (as defined in Section 11(d)) on such record date, the Purchase Price to be in effect after such record date shall be determined by multiplying the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such record date by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of Preferred Shares outstanding on such record date plus the number of Preferred Shares which the aggregate offering price of the total number of Preferred Shares and/or equivalent preferred shares so to be offered (and/or the aggregate initial conversion price of the convertible securities so to be offered) would purchase at such current market price and the denominator of which shall be the number of Preferred Shares outstanding on such record date plus the number of additional Preferred Shares and/or equivalent preferred shares to be offered for subscription or purchase (or into which the convertible securities so to be offered are initially convertible); PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that in no event shall the consideration to be paid upon the exercise of one Right be less than the aggregate par value of the shares of capital stock of the Company issuable upon exercise of one Right. In case such subscription price may be paid in a consideration part or all of which shall be in a form other than cash, the value of such consideration shall be as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company, whose determination shall be described in a statement filed with the Rights Agent and shall be binding on the Rights Agent and holders of the Rights. Preferred Shares owned by or held for the account of the Company shall not be deemed outstanding for the purpose of any such computation. Such adjustment shall be made successively whenever such a record date is fixed; and, in the event -19-
that such rights, options or warrants are not so issued, the Purchase Price shall be adjusted to be the Purchase Price which would then be in effect if such record date had not been fixed. (c) In case the Company shall fix a record date for the making of a distribution to all holders of the Preferred Shares (including any such distribution made in connection with a consolidation or merger in which the Company is the continuing or surviving corporation) of evidences of indebtedness or assets (other than a regular quarterly cash dividend or a dividend payable in Preferred Shares) or subscription rights or warrants (excluding those referred to in Section 11(b) hereof), the Purchase Price to be in effect after such record date shall be determined by multiplying the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such record date by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the then-current per share market price of the Preferred Shares on such record date, less the fair market value (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company, whose determination shall be described in a statement filed with the Rights Agent and shall be binding on the Rights Agent and holders of the Rights) of the portion of the assets or evidences of indebtedness so to be distributed or of such subscription rights or warrants applicable to one Preferred Share and the denominator of which shall be such then-current per share market price of the Preferred Shares on such record date; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that in no event shall the consideration to be paid upon the exercise of one Right be less than the aggregate par value of the shares of capital stock of the Company to be issued upon exercise of one Right. Such adjustments shall be made successively whenever such a record date is fixed; and, in the event that such distribution is not so made, the Purchase Price shall again be adjusted to be the Purchase Price which would then be in effect if such record date had not been fixed. (d) (i) For the purpose of any computation hereunder, the "current per share market price" of any security (a "SECURITY" for the purpose of this Section 11(d)(i)) on any date -20-
shall be deemed to be the average of the daily closing prices per share of such Security for the 30 consecutive Trading Days immediately prior to such date; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that, in the event that the current per share market price of the Security is determined during a period following the announcement by the issuer of such Security of (A) a dividend or distribution on such Security payable in shares of such Security or Securities convertible into such shares, or (B) any subdivision, combination or reclassification of such Security and prior to the expiration of 30 Trading Days after the ex-dividend date for such dividend or distribution, or the record date for such subdivision, combination or reclassification, then, and in each such case, the current per share market price shall be appropriately adjusted to reflect the current market price per share equivalent of such Security. The closing price for each day shall be the last sale price, regular way, reported at or prior to 4:00 P.M. New York City time or, in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the bid and asked prices, regular way, reported as of 4:00 P.M. New York City time, in either case, as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Security is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed on the principal national securities exchange on which the Security is listed or admitted to trading or, if the Security is not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the last quoted price reported at or prior to 4:00 P.M. New York City time or, if not so quoted, the average of the high bid and low asked prices in the over-the-counter market, as reported as of 4:00 P.M. New York City time by NASDAQ or such other system then in use, or, if on any such date the Security is not quoted by any such organization, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in the Security selected by the Board of Direc- -21-
tors of the Company. The term "TRADING DAY" shall mean a day on which the principal national securities exchange on which the Security is listed or admitted to trading is open for the transaction of business, or, if the Security is not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, a Business Day. (ii) For the purpose of any computation hereunder, the "current per share market price" of the Preferred Shares shall be determined in accordance with the method set forth in Section 11(d)(i). If the Preferred Shares are not publicly traded, the "current per share market price" of the Preferred Shares shall be conclusively deemed to be the current per share market price of the Common Shares as determined pursuant to Section 11(d)(i) hereof (appropriately adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock dividend or similar transaction occurring after the date hereof), multiplied by one hundred. If neither the Common Shares nor the Preferred Shares are publicly held or so listed or traded, "current per share market price" shall mean the fair value per share as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company, whose determination shall be described in a statement filed with the Rights Agent. (e) No adjustment in the Purchase Price shall be required unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% in the Purchase Price; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that any adjustments which by reason of this Section 11(e) are not required to be made shall be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment. All calculations under this Section 11 shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest one one-millionth of a Preferred Share or one ten-thousandth of any other share or security as the case may be. Notwithstanding the first sentence of this Section 11(e), any adjustment required by this Section 11 shall be made no later than the earlier of (i) three years from the date of the transaction which requires such adjustment or (ii) the date of the expiration of the right to exercise any Rights. -22-
(f) If, as a result of an adjustment made pursuant to Section 11(a) hereof, the holder of any Right thereafter exercised shall become entitled to receive any shares of capital stock of the Company other than Preferred Shares, thereafter the number of such other shares so receivable upon exercise of any Right shall be subject to adjustment from time to time in a manner and on terms as nearly equivalent as practicable to the provisions with respect to the Preferred Shares contained in Section 11(a) through (c) hereof, inclusive, and the provisions of Sections 7, 9, 10 and 13 hereof with respect to the Preferred Shares shall apply on like terms to any such other shares. (g) All Rights originally issued by the Company subsequent to any adjustment made to the Purchase Price hereunder shall evidence the right to purchase, at the adjusted Purchase Price, the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share purchasable from time to time hereunder upon exercise of the Rights, all subject to further adjustment as provided herein. (h) Unless the Company shall have exercised its election as provided in Section 11(i) hereof, upon each adjustment of the Purchase Price as a result of the calculations made in Sections 11(b) and (c) hereof, each Right outstanding immediately prior to the making of such adjustment shall thereafter evidence the right to purchase, at the adjusted Purchase Price, that number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share (calculated to the nearest one one-millionth of a Preferred Share) obtained by (A) multiplying (x) the number of one one-hundredths of a share covered by a Right immediately prior to this adjustment by (y) the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such adjustment of the Purchase Price and (B) dividing the product so obtained by the Purchase Price in effect immediately after such adjustment of the Purchase Price. -23-
(i) The Company may elect, on or after the date of any adjustment of the Purchase Price, to adjust the number of Rights in substitution for any adjustment in the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share purchasable upon the exercise of a Right. Each of the Rights outstanding after such adjustment of the number of Rights shall be exercisable for the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share for which a Right was exercisable immediately prior to such adjustment. Each Right held of record prior to such adjustment of the number of Rights shall become that number of Rights (calculated to the nearest one ten-thousandth) obtained by dividing the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to adjustment of the Purchase Price by the Purchase Price in effect immediately after adjustment of the Purchase Price. The Company shall make a public announcement of its election to adjust the number of Rights, indicating the record date for the adjustment, and, if known at the time, the amount of the adjustment to be made, with prompt notice thereof to the Rights Agent. This record date may be the date on which the Purchase Price is adjusted or any day thereafter, but, if the Right Certificates have been issued, shall be at least 10 days later than the date of the public announcement. If Right Certificates have been issued, upon each adjustment of the number of Rights pursuant to this Section 11(i), the Company shall, as promptly as practicable, cause to be distributed to holders of record of Right Certificates on such record date Right Certificates evidencing, subject to Section 14 hereof, the additional Rights to which such holders shall be entitled as a result of such adjustment, or, at the option of the Company, shall cause to be distributed to such holders of record in substitution and replacement for the Right Certificates held by such holders prior to the date of adjustment, and upon surrender thereof, if required by the Company, new Right Certificates evidencing all the Rights to which such holders shall be entitled after such adjustment. Right Certificates so to be distributed shall be issued, executed and countersigned in the manner provided -24-
for herein, and shall be registered in the names of the holders of record of Right Certificates on the record date specified in the public announcement. (j) Irrespective of any adjustment or change in the Purchase Price or in the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share issuable upon the exercise of the Rights, the Right Certificates theretofore and thereafter issued may continue to express the Purchase Price and the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share which were expressed in the initial Right Certificates issued hereunder. (k) Before taking any action that would cause an adjustment reducing the Purchase Price below one one-hundredth of the then par value, if any, of the Preferred Shares issuable upon exercise of the Rights, the Company shall take any corporate action which may, in the opinion of its counsel, be necessary in order that the Company may validly and legally issue fully paid and nonassessable Preferred Shares at such adjusted Purchase Price. (l) In any case in which this Section 11 shall require that an adjustment in the Purchase Price be made effective as of a record date for a specified event, the Company may elect to defer (with prompt notice thereof to the Rights Agent) until the occurrence of such event the issuing to the holder of any Right exercised after such record date of the Preferred Shares and other capital stock or securities of the Company, if any, issuable upon such exercise over and above the Preferred Shares and other capital stock or securities of the Company, if any, issuable upon such exercise on the basis of the Purchase Price in effect prior to such adjustment; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the Company shall deliver to such holder a due bill or other appropriate instrument evidencing such holder's right to receive such additional shares upon the occurrence of the event requiring such adjustment. -25-
(m) Anything in this Section 11 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company shall be entitled to make such reductions in the Purchase Price, in addition to those adjustments expressly required by this Section 11, as and to the extent that it, in its sole discretion, shall determine to be advisable in order that any consolidation or subdivision of the Preferred Shares, issuance wholly for cash of any Preferred Shares at less than the current market price, issuance wholly for cash of Preferred Shares or securities which by their terms are convertible into or exchangeable for Preferred Shares, dividends on Preferred Shares payable in Preferred Shares or issuance of rights, options or warrants referred to in Section 11(b) hereof, hereafter made by the Company to holders of the Preferred Shares shall not be taxable to such stockholders. (n) In the event that, at any time after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Distribution Date, the Company shall (i) declare or pay any dividend on the Common Shares payable in Common Shares, or (ii) effect a subdivision, combination or consolidation of the Common Shares (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of dividends in Common Shares) into a greater or lesser number of Common Shares, then, in any such case, (A) the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share purchasable after such event upon proper exercise of each Right shall be determined by multiplying the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share so purchasable immediately prior to such event by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of Common Shares outstanding immediately before such event and the denominator of which is the number of Common Shares outstanding immediately after such event, and (B) each Common Share outstanding immediately after such event shall have issued with respect to it that number of Rights which each Common Share outstanding immediately prior to such event had issued with respect to it. The adjustments provided for in this Section 11(n) shall -26-
be made successively whenever such a dividend is declared or paid or such a subdivision, combination or consolidation is effected. Section 12. CERTIFICATE OF ADJUSTED PURCHASE PRICE OR NUMBER OF SHARES. Whenever an adjustment is made as provided in Section 11 or 13 hereof, the Company shall promptly (a) prepare a certificate setting forth such adjustment and a brief statement of the facts accounting for such adjustment, (b) file with the Rights Agent and with each transfer agent for the Common Shares or the Preferred Shares and the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of such certificate and (c) if such adjustment occurs at any time after the Distribution Date, mail a brief summary thereof to each holder of a Right Certificate in accordance with Section 25 hereof. The Rights Agent shall be fully protected in relying on any certificate or any adjustment therein contained and shall have no duty with respect to and shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any such adjustment unless and until it shall have received such certificate. Section 13. CONSOLIDATION, MERGER OR SALE OR TRANSFER OF ASSETS OR EARNING POWER. In the event, directly or indirectly, at any time after a Person has become an Acquiring Person, (a) the Company shall consolidate with, or merge with and into, any other Person, (b) any Person shall merge with and into the Company and the Company shall be the continuing or surviving corporation of such merger and, in connection with such merger, all or part of the Common Shares shall be changed into or exchanged for stock or other securities of any other Person (or the Company) or cash or any other property, or (c) the Company shall sell or otherwise transfer (or one or more of its Subsidiaries shall sell or otherwise transfer), in one or more transactions, assets or earning power aggregating 50% or more of the assets or earning power of the Company and its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole) to any other Person other than the Company or one or more of its wholly-owned Subsidiaries, then, and in each such case, proper provision -27-
shall be made so that (i) each holder of a Right (except as otherwise provided herein) shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon the exercise thereof at a price equal to the then current Purchase Price multiplied by the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share for which a Right is then exercisable (whether or not then exercisable for Preferred Shares), in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and in lieu of Preferred Shares, such number of Common Shares of such other Person (including the Company as successor thereto or as the surviving corporation) as shall equal the result obtained by (A) multiplying the then current Purchase Price by the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share for which a Right is then exercisable (whether or not then exercisable for Preferred Shares) and dividing that product by (B) 50% of the then current per share market price of the Common Shares of such other Person (determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) on the date of consummation of such consolidation, merger, sale or transfer; (ii) the issuer of such Common Shares shall thereafter be liable for, and shall assume, by virtue of such consolidation, merger, sale or transfer, all the obligations and duties of the Company pursuant to this Agreement; (iii) the term "Company" shall thereafter be deemed to refer to such issuer; and (iv) such issuer shall take such steps (including, but not limited to, the reservation of a sufficient number of its Common Shares in accordance with Section 9 hereof) in connection with such consummation as may be necessary to assure that the provisions hereof shall thereafter be applicable, as nearly as reasonably may be, in relation to the Common Shares of the Company thereafter deliverable upon the exercise of the Rights. The Company shall not consummate any such consolidation, merger, sale or transfer unless, prior thereto, the Company and such issuer shall have executed and delivered to the Rights Agent a supplemental agreement so providing. The Company shall not enter into any transaction of the kind referred to in this Section 13 if at the time of such transaction there are any rights, warrants, instruments or securi- -28-
ties outstanding or any agreements or arrangements which, as a result of the consummation of such transaction, would eliminate or substantially diminish the benefits intended to be afforded by the Rights. The provisions of this Section 13 shall similarly apply to successive mergers or consolidations or sales or other transfers. Section 14. FRACTIONAL RIGHTS AND FRACTIONAL SHARES. (a) The Company shall not be required to issue fractions of Rights or to distribute Right Certificates which evidence fractional Rights. In lieu of such fractional Rights, there shall be paid to the registered holders of the Right Certificates with regard to which such fractional Rights would otherwise be issuable, an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the current market value of a whole Right. For the purposes of this Section 14(a), the current market value of a whole Right shall be the closing price of the Rights for the Trading Day immediately prior to the date on which such fractional Rights would have been otherwise issuable. The closing price for any day shall be the last sale price, regular way, or, in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case, as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Rights are not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed on the principal national securities exchange on which the Rights are listed or admitted to trading or, if the Rights are not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the last quoted price or, if not so quoted, the average of the high bid and low asked prices in the over-the-counter market, as reported by NASDAQ or such other system then in use or, if on any such date the Rights are not quoted by any such organization, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in the Rights selected -29-
by the Board of Directors of the Company. If on any such date no such market maker is making a market in the Rights, the fair value of the Rights on such date as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company shall be used. (b) The Company shall not be required to issue fractions of Preferred Shares (other than fractions which are integral multiples of one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share) upon exercise of the Rights or to distribute certificates which evidence fractional Preferred Shares (other than fractions which are integral multiples of one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share). Fractions of Preferred Shares in integral multiples of one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share may, at the election of the Company, be evidenced by depositary receipts, pursuant to an appropriate agreement between the Company and a depositary selected by it; PROVIDED that such agreement shall provide that the holders of such depositary receipts shall have all the rights, privileges and preferences to which they are entitled as beneficial owners of the Preferred Shares represented by such depositary receipts. In lieu of fractional Preferred Shares that are not integral multiples of one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share, the Company shall pay to the registered holders of Right Certificates at the time such Rights are exercised as herein provided an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the current market value of one Preferred Share. For the purposes of this Section 14(b), the current market value of a Preferred Share shall be the closing price of a Preferred Share (as determined pursuant to the second sentence of Section 11(d)(i) hereof) for the Trading Day immediately prior to the date of such exercise. (c) The holder of a Right, by the acceptance of the Right, expressly waives such holder's right to receive any fractional Rights or any fractional shares upon exercise of a Right (except as provided above). -30-
Section 15. RIGHTS OF ACTION. All rights of action in respect of this Agreement, excepting the rights of action given to the Rights Agent under Sections 18 and 20 hereof, are vested in the respective registered holders of the Right Certificates (and, prior to the Distribution Date, the registered holders of the Common Shares); and any registered holder of any Right Certificate (or, prior to the Distribution Date, of the Common Shares), without the consent of the Rights Agent or of the holder of any other Right Certificate (or, prior to the Distribution Date, of the Common Shares), may, in such holder's own behalf and for such holder's own benefit, enforce, and may institute and maintain any suit, action or proceeding against the Company to enforce, or otherwise act in respect of, such holder's right to exercise the Rights evidenced by such Right Certificate in the manner provided in such Right Certificate and in this Agreement. Without limiting the foregoing or any remedies available to the holders of Rights, it is specifically acknowledged that the holders of Rights would not have an adequate remedy at law for any breach of this Agreement, and will be entitled to specific performance of the obligations under, and injunctive relief against actual or threatened violations of the obligations of any Person subject to, this Agreement. Section 16. AGREEMENT OF RIGHT HOLDERS. Every holder of a Right, by accepting the same, consents and agrees with the Company and the Rights Agent and with every other holder of a Right that: (a) prior to the Distribution Date, the Rights will be transferable only in connection with the transfer of the Common Shares; -31-
(b) after the Distribution Date, the Right Certificates are transferable only on the registry books of the Rights Agent if surrendered at the Principal Office of the Rights Agent, duly endorsed or accompanied by a proper instrument of transfer; and (c) the Company and the Rights Agent may deem and treat the person in whose name the Right Certificate (or, prior to the Distribution Date, the associated Common Shares certificate) is registered as the absolute owner thereof and of the Rights evidenced thereby (notwithstanding any notations of ownership or writing on the Right Certificate or the associated Common Shares certificate made by anyone other than the Company or the Rights Agent) for all purposes whatsoever, and neither the Company nor the Rights Agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. Section 17. RIGHT CERTIFICATE HOLDER NOT DEEMED A STOCKHOLDER. No holder, as such, of any Right Certificate shall be entitled to vote, receive dividends or be deemed for any purpose the holder of the Preferred Shares or any other securities of the Company which may at any time be issuable on the exercise of the Rights represented thereby, nor shall anything contained herein or in any Right Certificate be construed to confer upon the holder of any Right Certificate, as such, any of the rights of a stockholder of the Company or any right to vote for the election of directors or upon any matter submitted to stockholders at any meeting thereof, or to give or withhold consent to any corporate action, or to receive notice of meetings or other actions affecting stockholders (except as provided in Section 25 hereof), or to receive dividends or subscription rights, or otherwise, until the Right or Rights evidenced by such Right Certificate shall have been exercised in accordance with the provisions hereof. -32-
Section 18. CONCERNING THE RIGHTS AGENT. The Company agrees to pay to the Rights Agent reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder, and, from time to time, on demand of the Rights Agent, its reasonable expenses and counsel fees and other disbursements incurred in the administration, preparation, delivery, amendment and execution of this Agreement and the exercise and performance of its duties hereunder. The Company also agrees to indemnify the Rights Agent for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, liability, damage, judgment, fine, penalty, claim, demand, settlement, cost or expense incurred without gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct (as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction) on the part of the Rights Agent, for any action taken, suffered or omitted by the Rights Agent in connection with the acceptance, amendment and administration of this Agreement, including the costs and expenses of defending against any claim of liability in the premises. The indemnity provided herein shall survive the termination of this Agreement, the resignation or removal of the Rights Agent, and the termination and expiration of the Rights. Anything to the contrary notwithstanding, in no event shall the Rights Agent be liable for special, punitive, indirect, consequential or incidental loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including but not limited to lost profits), even if the Rights Agent has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage. Any liability of the Rights Agent under this Rights Agreement will be limited to the amount of fees paid by the Company to the Rights Agent. The Rights Agent shall be authorized and protected and shall incur no liability for, or in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it in connection with, its administration of this Agreement in reliance upon any Right Certificate or certificate for the Preferred Shares or Common Shares or for other securities of the Company, instrument of assignment or transfer, power of attorney, endorsement, affidavit, letter, notice, direction, consent, certificate, statement, -33-
or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to be signed, executed and, where necessary, verified or acknowledged, by the proper person or persons, or otherwise upon the advice of counsel as set forth in Section 20 hereof. Section 19. MERGER OR CONSOLIDATION OR CHANGE OF NAME OF RIGHTS AGENT. Any Person into which the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent may be merged or with which it may be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger or consolidation to which the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent shall be a party, or any Person succeeding to the stock transfer or corporate trust powers of the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent, shall be the successor to the Rights Agent under this Agreement without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto; PROVIDED that such Person would be eligible for appointment as a successor Rights Agent under the provisions of Section 21 hereof. In case at the time such successor Rights Agent shall succeed to the agency created by this Agreement, any of the Right Certificates shall have been countersigned but not delivered, any such successor Rights Agent may adopt the countersignature of the predecessor Rights Agent and deliver such Right Certificates so countersigned; and, in case at that time any of the Right Certificates shall not have been countersigned, any successor Rights Agent may countersign such Right Certificates either in the name of the predecessor Rights Agent or in the name of the successor Rights Agent; and, in all such cases, such Right Certificates shall have the full force provided in the Right Certificates and in this Agreement. In case at any time the name of the Rights Agent shall be changed and at such time any of the Right Certificates shall have been countersigned but not delivered, the Rights Agent may adopt the countersignature under its prior name and deliver Right Certificates so countersigned; and, in case at that time any of the Right Certificates shall not have been counter- -34-
signed, the Rights Agent may countersign such Right Certificates either in its prior name or in its changed name; and, in all such cases, such Right Certificates shall have the full force provided in the Right Certificates and in this Agreement. Section 20. DUTIES OF RIGHTS AGENT. The Rights Agent undertakes the duties and obligations expressly imposed by this Agreement upon the following terms and conditions, by all of which the Company and the holders of Right Certificates, by their acceptance thereof, shall be bound: (a) The Rights Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be legal counsel for the Company), and the advice or opinion of such counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection to the Rights Agent as to any action taken, suffered or omitted by it in good faith and in accordance with such advice or opinion. (b) Whenever in the performance of its duties under this Agreement the Rights Agent shall deem it necessary or desirable that any fact or matter be proved or established by the Company prior to taking or suffering any action hereunder, such fact or matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by a certificate signed by any one of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer or the Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Rights Agent; and such certificate shall be full authorization to the Rights Agent for any action taken, suffered or omitted in good faith by it under the provisions of this Agreement in reliance upon such certificate. -35-
(c) The Rights Agent shall be liable hereunder to the Company and any other Person only for its own gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. (d) The Rights Agent shall not be liable for or by reason of any of the statements of fact or recitals contained in this Agreement or in the Right Certificates (except its countersignature thereof) or be required to verify the same, but all such statements and recitals are and shall be deemed to have been made by the Company only. (e) The Rights Agent shall not be under any responsibility in respect of the validity of this Agreement or the execution and delivery hereof (except the due execution hereof by the Rights Agent) or in respect of the validity or execution of any Right Certificate (except its countersignature thereof); nor shall it be responsible for any breach by the Company of any covenant or condition contained in this Agreement or in any Right Certificate; nor shall it be responsible for any change in the exercisability of the Rights (including the Rights becoming void pursuant to Section 11(a)(ii) hereof) or any adjustment in the terms of the Rights (including the manner, method or amount thereof) provided for in Section 3, 11, 13, 23 or 24 hereof, or the ascertaining of the existence of facts that would require any such change or adjustment (except with respect to the exercise of Rights evidenced by Right Certificates after actual notice that such change or adjustment is required); nor shall it by any act hereunder be deemed to make any representation or warranty as to the authorization or reservation of any Preferred Shares to be issued pursuant to this Agreement or any Right Certificate or as to whether any Preferred Shares will, when issued, be validly authorized and issued, fully paid and nonassessable. -36-
(f) The Company agrees that it will perform, execute, acknowledge and deliver or cause to be performed, executed, acknowledged and delivered all such further and other acts, instruments and assurances as may reasonably be required by the Rights Agent for the carrying out or performing by the Rights Agent of the provisions of this Agreement. (g) The Rights Agent is hereby authorized and directed to accept instructions with respect to the performance of its duties hereunder from any one of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice President, the Secretary or the Treasurer of the Company, and to apply to such officers for advice or instructions in connection with its duties, and it shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it in good faith in accordance with instructions of any such officer or for any delay in acting while waiting for those instructions. (h) The Rights Agent and any stockholder, director, Affiliate, officer or employee of the Rights Agent may buy, sell or deal in any of the Rights or other securities of the Company or become pecuniarily interested in any transaction in which the Company may be interested, or contract with or lend money to the Company or otherwise act as fully and freely as though it were not Rights Agent under this Agreement. Nothing herein shall preclude the Rights Agent from acting in any other capacity for the Company or for any other Person. (i) The Rights Agent may execute and exercise any of the rights or powers hereby vested in it or perform any duty hereunder either itself or by or through its attorneys or agents, and the Rights Agent shall not be answerable or accountable for any act, default, neglect or misconduct of any such attorneys or agents or for any loss to the Company resulting from any -37-
such act, default, neglect or misconduct, provided that reasonable care was exercised in the selection and continued employment thereof. (j) No provision of this Agreement shall require the Rights Agent to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or in the exercise of its rights if it believes that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnification against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it. Section 21. CHANGE OF RIGHTS AGENT. The Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent may resign and be discharged from its duties under this Agreement upon 30 days' notice in writing mailed to the Company and to each transfer agent of the Common Shares or Preferred Shares by registered or certified mail, and to the holders of the Right Certificates by first-class mail. The Company may remove the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent upon 30 days' notice in writing, mailed to the Rights Agent or successor Rights Agent, as the case may be, and to each transfer agent of the Common Shares or Preferred Shares by registered or certified mail, and to the holders of the Right Certificates by first-class mail. If the Rights Agent shall resign or be removed or shall otherwise become incapable of acting, the Company shall appoint a successor to the Rights Agent. If the Company shall fail to make such appointment within a period of 30 days after giving notice of such removal or after it has been notified in writing of such resignation or incapacity by the resigning or incapacitated Rights Agent or by the holder of a Right Certificate (which holder shall, with such notice, submit such holder's Right Certificate for inspection by the Company), then the registered holder of any Right Certificate may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a new Rights Agent. Any successor Rights Agent, whether appointed by the Company or by such a court, shall be a Person organized and doing business under the laws of the United States or of the State -38-
of New York (or of any other state of the United States so long as such Person is authorized to do business in the State of New York), in good standing, having an office in the State of New York, which is authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust or stock transfer powers and is subject to supervision or examination by federal or state authority and which has at the time of its appointment as Rights Agent a combined capital and surplus of at least $50 million. After appointment, the successor Rights Agent shall be vested with the same powers, rights, duties and responsibilities as if it had been originally named as Rights Agent without further act or deed; but the predecessor Rights Agent shall deliver and transfer to the successor Rights Agent any property at the time held by it hereunder, and execute and deliver any further assurance, conveyance, act or deed necessary for the purpose. Not later than the effective date of any such appointment, the Company shall file notice thereof in writing with the predecessor Rights Agent and each transfer agent of the Common Shares or Preferred Shares, and mail a notice thereof in writing to the registered holders of the Right Certificates. Failure to give any notice provided for in this Section 21, however, or any defect therein, shall not affect the legality or validity of the resignation or removal of the Rights Agent or the appointment of the successor Rights Agent, as the case may be. Section 22. ISSUANCE OF NEW RIGHT CERTIFICATES. Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Agreement or of the Rights to the contrary, the Company may, at its option, issue new Right Certificates evidencing Rights in such form as may be approved by the Board of Directors of the Company to reflect any adjustment or change in the Purchase Price and the number or kind or class of shares or other securities or property purchasable under the Right Certificates made in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. -39-
Section 23. REDEMPTION. (a) The Board of Directors of the Company may, at its option, at any time prior to such time as any Person becomes an Acquiring Person, redeem all but not less than all the then outstanding Rights at a redemption price of $.01 per Right, appropriately adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock dividend or similar transaction occurring after the date hereof (such redemption price being hereinafter referred to as the "REDEMPTION PRICE"). The redemption of the Rights by the Board of Directors of the Company may be made effective at such time, on such basis and with such conditions as the Board of Directors of the Company, in its sole discretion, may establish. (b) Immediately upon the action of the Board of Directors of the Company ordering the redemption of the Rights pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 23, and without any further action and without any notice, the right to exercise the Rights will terminate and the only right thereafter of the holders of Rights shall be to receive the Redemption Price. The Company shall promptly give public notice of any such redemption; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the failure to give, or any defect in, any such notice shall not affect the validity of such redemption. Within 10 days after such action of the Board of Directors of the Company ordering the redemption of the Rights, the Company shall mail a notice of redemption to the Rights Agent and to all the holders of the then outstanding Rights at their last addresses as they appear upon the registry books of the Rights Agent or, prior to the Distribution Date, on the registry books of the transfer agent for the Common Shares. Any notice which is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be deemed given, whether or not the holder receives the notice. Each such notice of redemption will state the method by which the payment of the Redemption Price will be made. Neither the Company nor any of its Affiliates or Associates may redeem, acquire or purchase for value any Rights at any time in any manner other than that specifically set forth in this Section 23 or in -40-
Section 24 hereof, and other than in connection with the purchase of Common Shares prior to the Distribution Date. Section 24. EXCHANGE. (a) The Board of Directors of the Company may, at its option, at any time after any Person becomes an Acquiring Person, exchange all or part of the then outstanding and exercisable Rights (which shall not include Rights that have become void pursuant to the provisions of Section 11(a)(ii) hereof) for Common Shares at an exchange ratio of one Common Share per Right, appropriately adjusted to reflect any adjustment in the number of Rights pursuant to Section 11(i) (such exchange ratio being hereinafter referred to as the "EXCHANGE RATIO"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board of Directors of the Company shall not be empowered to effect such exchange at any time after any Person (other than the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company, any employee benefit plan of the Company or any such Subsidiary, or any entity holding Common Shares for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan), together with all Affiliates and Associates of such Person, becomes the Beneficial Owner of 50% or more of the Common Shares then outstanding. (b) Immediately upon the action of the Board of Directors of the Company ordering the exchange of any Rights pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 24 and without any further action and without any notice, the right to exercise such Rights shall terminate and the only right thereafter of a holder of such Rights shall be to receive that number of Common Shares equal to the number of such Rights held by such holder multiplied by the Exchange Ratio. The Company shall promptly give public notice of any such exchange with prompt notice thereof to the Rights Agent; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the failure to give, or any defect in, such notice shall not affect the validity of such exchange. The Company promptly shall mail a notice of any such exchange to all of the holders of such Rights at their last addresses as they appear upon the -41-
registry books of the Rights Agent. Any notice which is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be deemed given, whether or not the holder receives the notice. Each such notice of exchange will state the method by which the exchange of the Common Shares for Rights will be effected, and, in the event of any partial exchange, the number of Rights which will be exchanged. Any partial exchange shall be effected PRO RATA based on the number of Rights (other than Rights which have become void pursuant to the provisions of Section 11(a)(ii) hereof) held by each holder of Rights. (c) In the event that there shall not be sufficient Common Shares issued but not outstanding or authorized but unissued to permit any exchange of Rights as contemplated in accordance with this Section 24, the Company shall take all such action as may be necessary to authorize additional Common Shares for issuance upon exchange of the Rights. In the event the Company shall, after good faith effort, be unable to take all such action as may be necessary to authorize such additional Common Shares, the Company shall substitute, for each Common Share that would otherwise be issuable upon exchange of a Right, a number of Preferred Shares or fraction thereof such that the current per share market price of one Preferred Share multiplied by such number or fraction is equal to the current per share market price of one Common Share as of the date of issuance of such Preferred Shares or fraction thereof. (d) The Company shall not be required to issue fractions of Common Shares or to distribute certificates which evidence fractional Common Shares. In lieu of such fractional Common Shares, the Company shall pay to the registered holders of the Right Certificates with regard to which such fractional Common Shares would otherwise be issuable an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the current market value of a whole Common Share. For the purposes of this paragraph (d), the current market value of a whole Common Share shall be the -42-
closing price of a Common Share (as determined pursuant to the second sentence of Section 11(d)(i) hereof) for the Trading Day immediately prior to the date of exchange pursuant to this Section 24. Section 25. NOTICE OF CERTAIN EVENTS. (a) In case the Company shall, at any time after the Distribution Date, propose (i) to pay any dividend payable in stock of any class to the holders of the Preferred Shares or to make any other distribution to the holders of the Preferred Shares (other than a regular quarterly cash dividend), (ii) to offer to the holders of the Preferred Shares rights or warrants to subscribe for or to purchase any additional Preferred Shares or shares of stock of any class or any other securities, rights or options, (iii) to effect any reclassification of the Preferred Shares (other than a reclassification involving only the subdivision of outstanding Preferred Shares), (iv) to effect any consolidation or merger into or with, or to effect any sale or other transfer (or to permit one or more of its Subsidiaries to effect any sale or other transfer), in one or more transactions, of 50% or more of the assets or earning power of the Company and its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole) to, any other Person, (v) to effect the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, or (vi) to declare or pay any dividend on the Common Shares payable in Common Shares or to effect a subdivision, combination or consolidation of the Common Shares (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of dividends in Common Shares), then, in each such case, the Company shall give to each holder of a Right Certificate and the Rights Agent, in accordance with Section 26 hereof, a notice of such proposed action, which shall specify the record date for the purposes of such stock dividend, or distribution of rights or warrants, or the date on which such reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, liquidation, dissolution, or winding up is to take place and the date of participation therein by the holders of the Common Shares and/or Preferred Shares, if any such date is to be -43-
fixed, and such notice shall be so given in the case of any action covered by clause (i) or (ii) above at least 10 days prior to the record date for determining holders of the Preferred Shares for purposes of such action, and, in the case of any such other action, at least 10 days prior to the date of the taking of such proposed action or the date of participation therein by the holders of the Common Shares and/or Preferred Shares, whichever shall be the earlier. (b) In case the event set forth in Section 11(a)(ii) hereof shall occur, then the Company shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, give to each holder of a Right Certificate and the Rights Agent, in accordance with Section 26 hereof, a notice of the occurrence of such event, which notice shall describe such event and the consequences of such event to holders of Rights under Section 11(a)(ii) hereof. Section 26. NOTICES. Notices or demands authorized by this Agreement to be given or made by the Rights Agent or by the holder of any Right Certificate to or on the Company shall be sufficiently given or made if sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed (until another address is filed in writing with the Rights Agent) as follows: ConocoPhillips 600 North Dairy Ashford Road Houston, Texas 77079 Attention: Corporate Secretary Subject to the provisions of Section 21 hereof, any notice or demand authorized by this Agreement to be given or made by the Company or by the holder of any Right Certificate to or on the Rights Agent shall be sufficiently given or made if sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed (until another address is filed in writing with the Company) as follows: -44-
Mellon Investor Services LLC 85 Challenger Road Ridgefield Park, NJ 07660 Attention: Relationship Manager Notices or demands authorized by this Agreement to be given or made by the Company or the Rights Agent to the holder of any Right Certificate shall be sufficiently given or made if sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to such holder at the address of such holder as shown on the registry books of the Company. Section 27. SUPPLEMENTS AND AMENDMENTS. The Company may from time to time supplement or amend this Agreement without the approval of any holders of Right Certificates in order to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision contained herein which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provisions herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to the Rights which the Company may deem necessary or desirable, any such supplement or amendment to be evidenced by a writing signed by the Company and, if required pursuant to this section, the Rights Agent; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that, from and after such time as any Person becomes an Acquiring Person, this Agreement shall not be amended in any manner which would adversely affect the interests of the holders of Rights. Any supplement or amendment to this Rights Agreement duly approved by the Company that does not amend the rights, duties or obligations of the Rights Agent hereunder shall become effective immediately upon execution by the Company, whether or not also executed by the Rights Agent. Without limiting the foregoing, the Company may at any time prior to such time as any Person becomes an Acquiring Person amend this Agreement to lower the thresholds set forth in Section 1(a) and 3(a) hereof to not less than 10% (the "Reduced Threshold"); PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that no Person who beneficially owns a number of Common Shares equal to or greater than the Reduced -45-
Threshold shall become an Acquiring Person unless such Person shall, after the public announcement of the Reduced Threshold, increase its beneficial ownership of the then outstanding Common Shares (other than as a result of an acquisition of Common Shares by the Company) to an amount equal to or greater than the greater of (x) the Reduced Threshold or (y) the sum of (i) the lowest beneficial ownership of such Person as a percentage of the outstanding Common Shares as of any date on or after the date of the public announcement of such Reduced Threshold plus (ii) .001%. If pursuant to the terms of this section a supplement or amendment must be executed by the Rights Agent, the Rights Agent shall execute such supplement or amendment upon the delivery of a certificate from an appropriate officer of the Company which states that the proposed supplement or amendment is in compliance with the terms of this Section 27. Section 28. SUCCESSORS. All the covenants and provisions of this Agreement by or for the benefit of the Company or the Rights Agent shall bind and inure to the benefit of their respective successors and assigns hereunder. Section 29. BENEFITS OF THIS AGREEMENT. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to give to any Person other than the Company, the Rights Agent and the registered holders of the Right Certificates (and, prior to the Distribution Date, the Common Shares) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Agreement; but this Agreement shall be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Company, the Rights Agent and the registered holders of the Right Certificates (and, prior to the Distribution Date, the Common Shares). Section 30. SEVERABILITY. If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agree- -46-
ment shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated. Section 31. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement and each Right Certificate issued hereunder shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of Delaware and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such state applicable to contracts to be made and performed entirely within such state. Section 32. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. Section 33. DESCRIPTIVE HEADINGS. Descriptive headings of the several Sections of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof. -47-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed and attested, all as of the day and year first above written. Attest: CONOCOPHILLIPS By /S/ WAYNE C. BYERS By /S/ RICK A. HARRINGTON ---------------------- --------------------------- Name: Wayne C. Byers Name: Rick A. Harrington Title: Vice President, Treasurer and Title: Chairman Assistant Secretary Attest: MELLON INVESTOR SERVICES LLC By /S/ DANIEL M. EGAN By /S/ GARY R. D'ALESSANDRO ---------------------- --------------------------- Name: Daniel M. Egan Name: Gary R. D'Alessandro Title: Vice President Title Vice President -48-
EXHIBIT A FORM of CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS of SERIES A JUNIOR PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK of CONOCOPHILLIPS (Pursuant to Section 151 of the Delaware General Corporation Law) ---------------------- CONOCOPHILLIPS, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (hereinafter called the "CORPORATION"), hereby certifies that the following resolution was adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation as required by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law acting by written consent pursuant to Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law on June 30, 2002: RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the Board of Directors of this Corporation (hereinafter called the "BOARD OF DIRECTORS" or the "BOARD") in accordance with the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors hereby creates a series of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation (the "Preferred Stock"), and hereby states the designation and number of shares, and fixes the relative rights, powers, preferences, and limitations thereof as follows: Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock: Section 1. DESIGNATION AND AMOUNT. The shares of such series shall be designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" (the "SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK") and the number of shares constituting the Series A Preferred Stock shall be 10,000,000. Such number of shares may be increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors; PROVIDED, that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding plus the number of shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, rights or warrants or upon the conversion of any outstanding securities issued by the Corporation convertible into Series A Preferred Stock. Section 2. DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS. (A) Subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock (or any similar stock) ranking prior and superior to the Series A Preferred Stock A-1
with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock, in preference to the holders of Common Stock, par value $.01 per share (the "COMMON STOCK"), of the Corporation, and of any other junior stock, shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the first day of March, June, September and December in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $1 or (b) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 100 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 100 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions, other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event. (B) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $1 per share on the Series A Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. (C) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such A-2
dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof. Section 3. VOTING RIGHTS. The holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights: (A) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 100 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of Common Stock of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event. (B) Except as otherwise provided herein, in any other Certificate of Designations creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock, or by law, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock and any other capital stock of the Corporation having general voting rights shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation. (C) Except as set forth herein, or as otherwise provided by law, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action. Section 4. CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS. (A) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not: (i) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock; (ii) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dis- A-3
solution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled; (iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock; or (iv) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes. (B) The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (A) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner. Section 5. REACQUIRED SHARES. Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein, in the Certificate of Incorporation, or in any other Certificate of Designations creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock or as otherwise required by law. Section 6. LIQUIDATION, DISSOLUTION OR WINDING UP. Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made (1) to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have received $100 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment, provided that the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an aggregate amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 100 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of shares of Common Stock, or (2) to the holders of shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except distributions made ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock in proportion to the total A-4
amounts to which the holders of all such shares are entitled upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the aggregate amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under the proviso in clause (1) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event. Section 7. CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, ETC. In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed into an amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 100 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event. Section 8. NO REDEMPTION. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable. Section 9. RANK. The Series A Preferred Stock shall rank, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, junior to all series of any other class of the Corporation's Preferred Stock. Section 10. AMENDMENT. The Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation shall not be amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class. A-5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations is executed on behalf of the Corporation by its President this __ day of June, 2002. ------------------------------- Name: J. Bryan Whitworth Title: President A-6
EXHIBIT B Form of Right Certificate Certificate No. R- Rights --- NOT EXERCISABLE AFTER JUNE 30, 2012 OR EARLIER IF REDEMPTION OR EXCHANGE OCCURS. THE RIGHTS ARE SUB- JECT TO REDEMPTION AT $.01 PER RIGHT AND TO EXCHANGE ON THE TERMS SET FORTH IN THE AGREEMENT. Right Certificate CONOCOPHILLIPS This certifies that ________________, or registered assigns, is the registered owner of the number of Rights set forth above, each of which entitles the owner thereof, subject to the terms, provisions and conditions of the Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2002 (the "Agreement"), between CONOCOPHILLIPS, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and MELLON INVESTOR SERVICES LLC (the "Rights Agent"), to purchase from the Company at any time after the Distribution Date (as such term is defined in the Agreement) and prior to 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on June 30, 2012 at the principal office of the Rights Agent, or at the office of its successor as Rights Agent, one one-hundredth of a fully paid non-assessable share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company (the "Preferred Shares"), at a purchase price of $300 per one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share (the "Purchase Price"), upon presentation and surrender of this Right Certificate with the Form of Election to Purchase duly executed. The number of Rights evidenced by this Right Certificate (and the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share which may be purchased upon exercise hereof) set forth above, and the Purchase Price set forth above, are the number and Purchase Price as of June 30, 2002, based on the Preferred Shares as constituted at such date. As provided in the Agreement, the Purchase Price and the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share which may be purchased upon the exercise of the Rights evidenced by this Right Certificate are subject to modification and adjustment upon the happening of certain events. This Right Certificate is subject to all of the terms, provisions and conditions of the Agreement, which terms, provisions and conditions are hereby incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof and to which Agreement reference is hereby made for a full description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities hereunder of the Rights Agent, the Company and the holders of the Right Certificates. Copies of the Agreement are on file at the principal executive offices of the Company and the offices of the Rights Agent. This Right Certificate, with or without other Right Certificates, upon surrender at the principal office of the Rights Agent, may be exchanged for another Right Certificate or Right Certificates of like tenor and date evidencing Rights entitling the holder to purchase a like aggregate number of Preferred Shares as the Rights evidenced by the Right Certificate or Right Cer- B-1
tificates surrendered shall have entitled such holder to purchase. If this Right Certificate shall be exercised in part, the holder shall be entitled to receive upon surrender hereof another Right Certificate or Right Certificates for the number of whole Rights not exercised. Subject to the provisions of the Agreement, the Rights evidenced by this Right Certificate (i) may be redeemed by the Company at a redemption price of $.01 per Right or (ii) may be exchanged in whole or in part for Preferred Shares or shares of the Company's Common Stock, par value $.01 per share. No fractional Preferred Shares will be issued upon the exercise of any Right or Rights evidenced hereby (other than fractions which are integral multiples of one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share, which may, at the election of the Company, be evidenced by depositary receipts), but, in lieu thereof, a cash payment will be made, as provided in the Agreement. No holder of this Right Certificate shall be entitled to vote or receive dividends or be deemed for any purpose the holder of the Preferred Shares or of any other securities of the Company which may at any time be issuable on the exercise hereof, nor shall anything contained in the Agreement or herein be construed to confer upon the holder hereof, as such, any of the rights of a stockholder of the Company or any right to vote for the election of directors or upon any matter submitted to stockholders at any meeting thereof, or to give or withhold consent to any corporate action, or to receive notice of meetings or other actions affecting stockholders (except as provided in the Agreement), or to receive dividends or subscription rights, or otherwise, until the Right or Rights evidenced by this Right Certificate shall have been exercised as provided in the Agreement. This Right Certificate shall not be valid or obligatory for any purpose until it shall have been countersigned by the Rights Agent. WITNESS the facsimile signature of the proper officers of the Company and its corporate seal. Dated as of ___________, ______ ATTEST: CONOCOPHILLIPS _________________________ By ________________________ Name: Name: Title: Title: Countersigned: MELLON INVESTOR SERVICES LLC By ________________________ Name: Title: B-2
Form of Reverse Side of Right Certificate FORM OF ASSIGNMENT (To be executed by the registered holder if such holder desires to transfer the Right Certificate.) FOR VALUE RECEIVED ________________________ hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto ______________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________________ (Please print name and address of transferee) _____________________________________________________________________________ this Right Certificate, together with all right, title and interest therein, and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint ___________________ Attorney, to transfer the within Right Certificate on the books of the within-named Company, with full power of substitution. Dated: ___________________ _________________________________ Signature Signature Guaranteed: All Guarantees must be made by a financial institution (such as a bank or broker) which is a participant in the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program ("STAMP"), the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Medallion Signature Program ("MSP"), or the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program ("SEMP") and must not be dated. Guarantees by a notary public are not acceptable. The undersigned hereby certifies that the Rights evidenced by this Right Certificate are not beneficially owned by an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate thereof (as defined in the Agreement). _________________________________ Signature B-3
Form of Reverse Side of Right Certificate - continued FORM OF ELECTION TO PURCHASE (To be executed if holder desires to exercise Rights represented by the Right Certificate.) To CONOCOPHILLIPS The undersigned hereby irrevocably elects to exercise ______________ Rights represented by this Right Certificate to purchase the Preferred Shares issuable upon the exercise of such Rights and requests that certificates for such Preferred Shares be issued in the name of: Please insert social security or other identifying number _____________________________________________________________________________ (Please print name and address) _____________________________________________________________________________ If such number of Rights shall not be all the Rights evidenced by this Right Certificate, a new Right Certificate for the balance remaining of such Rights shall be registered in the name of and delivered to: Please insert social security or other identifying number _____________________________________________________________________________ (Please print name and address) _____________________________________________________________________________ Dated: __________________ _________________________________ Signature B-4
Signature Guaranteed: All Guarantees must be made by a financial institution (such as a bank or broker) which is a participant in the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program ("STAMP"), the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Medallion Signature Program ("MSP"), or the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program ("SEMP") and must not be dated. Guarantees by a notary public are not acceptable. The undersigned hereby certifies that the Rights evidenced by this Right Certificate are not beneficially owned by an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate thereof (as defined in the Agreement). ----------------------------------- Signature NOTICE The signature in the Form of Assignment or Form of Election to Purchase, as the case may be, must conform to the name as written upon the face of this Right Certificate in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatsoever. In the event the certification set forth above in the Form of Assignment or the Form of Election to Purchase, as the case may be, is not completed, the Company and the Rights Agent will deem the beneficial owner of the Rights evidenced by this Right Certificate to be an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate thereof (as defined in the Agreement) and such Assignment or Election to Purchase will not be honored. B-5
EXHIBIT C SUMMARY OF RIGHTS TO PURCHASE PREFERRED SHARES INTRODUCTION On June 30, 2002, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of ConocoPhillips, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right (a "Right") for each outstanding share of common stock, par value $.01 per share. The dividend is payable on June 30, 2002 to the stockholders of record on June 30, 2002. The Board has adopted this Rights Agreement to protect stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics. In general terms, it works by imposing a significant penalty upon any person or group which acquires 15% or more of the outstanding common stock without the approval of the Board. The Rights Agreement should not interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by the Board. For those interested in the specific terms of the Rights Agreement as made between the Company and Mellon Investor Services LLC, as the Rights Agent, on June 30, 2002, we provide the following summary description. Please note, however, that this description is only a summary, and is not complete, and should be read together with the entire Rights Agreement, which has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K dated August __, 2002. A copy of the agreement is available free of charge from the Company. THE RIGHTS. The Board authorized the issuance of a Right with respect to each outstanding share of common stock on June 30, 2002. The Rights will initially trade with, and will be inseparable from, the common stock. The Rights are evidenced only by certificates that represent shares of common stock. New Rights will accompany any new shares of common stock that the Company issues after June 30, 2002 until the Distribution Date described below. EXERCISE PRICE. Each Right will allow its holder to purchase from the Company one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock ("Preferred Share") for $300, once the Rights become exercisable. This portion of a Preferred Share will give the stockholder approximately the same dividend, voting, and liquidation rights as would one share of common stock. Prior to exercise, the Right does not give its holder any dividend, voting, or liquidation rights. EXERCISABILITY. The Rights will not be exercisable until o the date of the public announcement that a person or group has become an "Acquiring Person" by obtaining beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock, or, if earlier, o such date determined by the Board (prior to the time any person or group becomes an Acquiring Person) after a person or group begins a tender or exchange offer which, if completed, would result in that person or group becoming an Acquiring Person. C-1
The date when the Rights become exercisable is referred to as the "Distribution Date." Until that date, the common stock certificates will also evidence the Rights, and any transfer of shares of common stock will constitute a transfer of Rights. After that date, the Rights will separate from the common stock and be evidenced by Rights certificates that will be mailed to all eligible holders of common stock. Any Rights held by an Acquiring Person are void and may not be exercised. The Board may reduce the threshold at which a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person from 15% to not less than 10% of the outstanding common stock. CONSEQUENCES OF A PERSON OR GROUP BECOMING AN ACQUIRING PERSON. o FLIP IN. If a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person, all holders of Rights except the Acquiring Person may, for $300, purchase shares of the Company's common stock with a market value of $600, based on the market price of the common stock prior to such acquisition. o FLIP OVER. If the Company is later acquired in a merger or similar transaction after the Rights Distribution Date, all holders of Rights except the Acquiring Person may, for $300, purchase shares of the acquiring corporation with a market value of $600 based on the market price of the acquiring corporation's stock, prior to such merger. PREFERRED SHARE PROVISIONS. Each one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share, if issued: o will not be redeemable. o will entitle holders to quarterly dividend payments of $.01 per share, or an amount equal to the dividend paid on one share of common stock, whichever is greater. o will entitle holders upon liquidation either to receive $1 per share or an amount equal to the payment made on one share of common stock, whichever is greater. o will have the same voting power as one share of common stock. o if shares of common stock are exchanged via merger, consolidation, or a similar transaction, will entitle holders to a per share payment equal to the payment made on one share of common stock. The value of one one-hundredth interest in a Preferred Share should approximate the value of one share of common stock. EXPIRATION. The Rights will expire on June 30, 2012. REDEMPTION. The Board may redeem the Rights for $.01 per Right at any time before any person or group becomes an Acquiring Person. If the Board redeems any Rights, it must redeem all of the Rights. Once the Rights are redeemed, the only right of the holders of Rights will be to re- C-2
ceive the redemption price of $.01 per Right. The redemption price will be adjusted in the event of a stock split or stock dividend of common stock. EXCHANGE. After a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person, but before an Acquiring Person owns 50% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock, the Board may extinguish the Rights by exchanging one share of common stock or an equivalent security for each Right, other than Rights held by the Acquiring Person. ANTI-DILUTION PROVISIONS. The Board may adjust the purchase price of the Preferred Shares, the number of Preferred Shares issuable and the number of outstanding Rights to prevent dilution that may occur from a stock dividend, a stock split, a reclassification of the Preferred Shares or common stock. No adjustments to the Exercise Price of less than 1% will be made. AMENDMENTS. The Board may amend the terms of the Rights Agreement without the consent of the holders of the Rights. However, the Board may not amend the Rights Agreement to lower the threshold at which a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person to below 10% of the outstanding common stock. In addition, the Board may not cause a person or group to become an Acquiring Person by lowering this threshold below the percentage interest that such person or group already owns. After a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person, the Board may not amend the agreement in a way that adversely affects holders of the Rights. C-3

CONTACTS: Kristi DesJarlais 281-293-5089 Carlton Adams 281-293-1043 CONOCOPHILLIPS MERGER COMPLETED HOUSTON, Aug. 30, 2002 --- ConocoPhillips [NYSE:COP] has completed the merger of Conoco Inc. [NYSE:COC] and Phillips Petroleum Company [NYSE:P], following clearance by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission earlier today. Shareholders of both companies and all U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities cleared the merger earlier this year. ConocoPhillips is the third-largest integrated U.S. energy company. On a global basis, it is the sixth-largest publicly held energy company based on hydrocarbon reserves and production, and it is the fifth-largest global refiner. ConocoPhillips has net proved reserves of 8.7 billion barrels of oil equivalent (BOE), daily oil and natural gas production of 1.7 million BOE, and a refining capacity of 2.6 million barrels per day, and has assets of $75 billion. "Today marks the creation of a new international integrated major energy company, with the assets, talent, financial strength and technology needed to achieve superior results for all stakeholders," said Jim Mulva, president and chief executive officer of ConocoPhillips. "We possess a diversified global portfolio of legacy assets and growth projects, as well as a commitment to financial discipline and operating excellence. Delivering on our portfolio of organic opportunities, together with highgrading our investments and capturing synergies, will provide a high-quality earnings base that will drive shareholder value." Each share of Phillips common stock has been converted into one share of ConocoPhillips common stock, and each share of Conoco common stock has been converted into 0.4677 of a share of ConocoPhillips common stock. Information regarding exchange of share certificates will be sent to former Phillips and Conoco shareholders as soon as practicable. Beginning September 3, ConocoPhillips' -more-
ConocoPhillips Merger Completed Page 2 stock will be listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "COP". "ConocoPhillips combines two successful energy industry pioneers into a global energy company that is focused on providing safe, clean and sustainable energy for the world and exceptional value for our shareholders," said Archie W. Dunham, chairman of the board of ConocoPhillips. "With skilled and dedicated employees, a strong balance sheet, upstream investment opportunities, and greater operational efficiency, ConocoPhillips is a tough new major competitor in the international petroleum industry." ConocoPhillips is a major international integrated energy company with operations in some 49 countries. Headquartered in Houston, the company has assets of $75 billion, net proved reserves of 8.7 billion barrels of oil equivalent (BOE), and daily production of 1.7 million BOE. # # # 08/30/02 www.conocophillips.com CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and beliefs and are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this press release include statements about the management and operations of ConocoPhillips. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, involve certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, and are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove accurate. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed herein. In any forward-looking statement in which ConocoPhillips expresses an expectation or belief as to future results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can be no assurance that the statement or expectation or belief will result or be achieved or accomplished. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements: costs related to the merger; and other economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting ConocoPhillips' business generally as set forth in filings with the SEC by Conoco and Phillips prior to the merger and by ConocoPhillips. ConocoPhillips is under no obligation to (and expressly disclaims any such obligation to) update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For more information, visit the company's Web site at www.conocophillips.com.


