FILE:COP/COP-8K-20040715153828.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On July 15, 2004, ConocoPhillips issued a press release announcing Archie W. Dunham's retirement from its Board of Directors, effective September 30, 2004. Mr. Dunham's Employment Agreement was amended in connection with his retirement and a copy of the amendment is filed as Exhibit 10 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
July 15, 2004
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10
 
 
 
Archie W. Dunham, Chairman of the Board
ConocoPhillips
600 North Dairy Ashford
Houston, Texas 77079
 
Dear Archie:
 
The Board of Directors of ConocoPhillips thanks you for almost 40 years of dedicated service. You have an outstanding record of achievement successively at Du Pont, Conoco and ConocoPhillips. Your leadership and guidance were essential to the formation of ConocoPhillips and have been significant factors in its ongoing success and its strategic vision.
 
We are pleased to inform you that the Company has determined to make a $3.0 million charitable commitment in your honor. Both you and ConocoPhillips have a long history of giving, and we can think of no better way to recognize your many years of service and civic leadership than contributions to qualifying charities recommended by you. We look forward to your recommendations and to making the contributions by the end of this year.
 
As the planned time of your retirement nears, we thought that it would be appropriate to set forth the arrangements that you and we have agreed to apply. We believe these steps recognize a mutual commitment to best practices in corporate governance.
 
 
Archie W. Dunham, Chairman of the Board
July 2, 2004
Page 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Archie W. Dunham, Chairman of the Board
July 2, 2004
Page 3
 
You and we intend that this letter and the arrangements set forth in it will be binding and will amend your Employment Contract. Please sign below to acknowledge that this letter represents the entire set of arrangements agreed to implement your retirement, your Employment Contract and the application of Company plans.
 
The Board appreciates your many contributions to the Company and recognizes your continued public advocacy of robust corporate governance and commitment to best practices, as reflected in these arrangements.
 
The Board of Directors extends its best wishes for you in retirement.
 
 
Agreed and Acknowledged:
 
 
Date: July 2, 2004

Exhibit 99
 
July 15, 2004
 
 
Houston (July 15, 2004)  The Board of Directors of ConocoPhillips today elected James J. Mulva to succeed Archie W. Dunham as Chairman of the Board upon Mr. Dunham's retirement on September 30, 2004. Mr. Mulva will continue to serve as president and chief executive officer.
 
Jim Mulva, speaking on behalf of the Board of Directors, thanked Mr. Dunham for his 40 years of dedicated service and his outstanding record of achievement at Conoco, DuPont and ConocoPhillips. "Your leadership and guidance were essential to the formation of ConocoPhillips and have been significant factors in its ongoing success," said Mulva.
 
"It has been a great honor for me to have been associated with wonderful employees at Conoco, DuPont and ConocoPhillips. I am proud of what we have accomplished together over the years, and I am very confident that, in Jim Mulva and the senior management team, the Board has ensured strong leadership for ConocoPhillips' future," said Archie W. Dunham.
 
Mr. Mulva's succession of Mr. Dunham as Chairman is consistent with the previously disclosed terms of the ConocoPhillips merger agreement. Mr. Dunham also has elected to retire from the Board of Directors when he retires from ConocoPhillips, in keeping with current best practices in corporate governance. Mr. Dunham added, "I have often given interviews and speeches on the importance of former chairmen and CEOs not continuing their board service after retirement in the interest of good governance."
 
ConocoPhillips is an integrated oil company with interests around the world. For more information, including biographical information on Mr. Dunham and Mr. Mulva, go to .
www.conocophillips.com
 
 
CONTACTS:
Sam Falcona (media) 281-293-5966
Clayton Reasor (investors) 212-207-1996


