FILE:COP/COP-8K-20040922165500.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On October 1, 2004, two executive compensation plans, the Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan and the Executive Severance Plan, the material terms of which have previously been approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of ConocoPhillips, will become effective.
 
. The Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan provides for a cash severance payment equal to 2-3 times an executive officer's salary and bonus (depending on salary level) as well as the continuation of certain benefits upon both (i) a change in control of the company and (ii) the termination of such executive's employment (a) by the Company without cause or (b) by the executive for good reason.
Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan
 
. The Executive Severance Plan provides for a cash severance payment equal to 1.5-2 times an executive officer's salary and bonus (depending on salary level) as well as the continuation of certain benefits upon the termination of such executive's employment by the Company without cause (other than a termination covered by the Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan).
Executive Severance Plan
 
Item 1.02. Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On September 22, 2004, J.J. Mulva, our President and Chief Executive Officer, proposed to terminate his Employment Agreement and serve as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President effective October 1, 2004 without an employment contract. The Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, agreed to the termination of Mr. Mulva's Employment Agreement effective October 1, 2004. A copy of the letter agreement terminating Mr. Mulva's Employment Agreement is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
Dear Directors:
 
In accordance with my views of good corporate governance, which I know you share, it is my preference to serve as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of ConocoPhillips effective October 1, 2004, without an employment agreement.
 
Consequently, I agree that the Employment Agreement dated November 18, 2001, between the company and me shall terminate as of October 1, 2004, with no further force or effect.
 
 
 


