FILE:COP/COP-8K-20070212172756.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
     On February 9, 2007, our Board of Directors approved amendments to our By-laws, which, among other things, provide for a majority voting standard in uncontested elections of directors. The following summary of the amendments to the By-laws does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the amended and restated By-laws filed as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
     Certain technical and conforming amendments were also made to the By-laws. The By-law amendments are effective as of February 9, 2007. A complete copy of our By-laws, as amended, are attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 5.05 Amendments to Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics.
     On February 9, 2007, our Board of Directors approved an amendment to our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct for Directors and Employees. The amendment supplements our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct by providing a new section relating to related party transactions. A "related party transaction" is a transaction in which ConocoPhillips (including its affiliates) is a participant and in which any director or executive officer (or their immediate family members) had or will have a direct or indirect material interest. Pursuant to the amendment, all directors and executive officers shall promptly bring to the attention of our general counsel, and in the case of directors, the Chair of our Committee on Directors' Affairs or, in the case of executive officers, the Chair of the Audit and Finance Committee, any transaction or relationship that arises and of which he or she becomes aware that reasonably could be expected to constitute a "related party transaction." Certain technical and conforming changes were also made to our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct.
     The foregoing summary of the amendment to the Code of Business Ethics and Conduct for Directors and Employees does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the revised Code of Business Ethics and Conduct for Directors and Employees filed as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference herein.
     The Code of Business Ethics and Conduct amendment is effective as of February 9, 2007. A complete copy of our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct for Directors and Employees, as revised, is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference herein.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
          Section 1. . The registered office of the Corporation shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware.
Registered Office
          Section 2. . The Corporation may also have offices at such other places both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
Other Offices
          Section 1. . Meetings of the stockholders for the election of directors or for any other purpose shall be held at such time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors. Subject to applicable law, the Board of Directors may elect to postpone any previously scheduled meeting of stockholders.
Place and Time of Meetings
          Section 2. . The annual meetings of stockholders for the election of directors shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors. Any other proper business may be transacted at the annual meeting of stockholders.
Annual Meetings
          Section 3. . Unless otherwise required by law or by the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as amended and restated from time to time (including any certificates of designation with respect to any Preferred Stock, the "Certificate of Incorporation"), special meetings of stockholders, for any purpose or purposes, may only be called by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution stating the purpose or purposes thereof or by the Chairman, if there be one, and any power of stockholders to call a special meeting is specifically denied. Notice of a special meeting stating the place, date and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting as shall be specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto).
Special Meetings
          Section 4. . Any meeting of the stockholders may be adjourned by the chairman of the meeting or by the stockholders or their proxies in attendance, from time to time, to reconvene at the same or some other place, and notice need not be given of any such adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting, the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the
Adjournments
 
original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
          Section 5. . Unless otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, the presence in person or by proxy of the holders of shares of capital stock entitled to cast a majority of the votes which could be cast at such meeting by the holders of all the outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote at such meeting shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business. A quorum, once established, shall not be broken by the withdrawal of enough votes to leave less than a quorum. If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, the chairman of the meeting or the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, in the manner provided in Section 4, until a quorum shall be present or represented.
Quorum
          Section 6 . Unless otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws or any rule or regulation of any stock exchange or regulatory body applicable to the Corporation, any question brought before any meeting of stockholders, other than the election of directors, shall be decided by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the votes of shares of capital stock present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the question, voting as a single class. Every reference in these By-Laws to a majority or other proportion of shares, or a majority or other proportion of the votes of shares, of capital stock shall refer to such majority or other proportion of the votes to which such shares of capital stock are entitled as provided in the Certificate of Incorporation. Votes of stockholders entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders may be cast in person or by proxy but no proxy shall be voted on or after three years from its date, unless such proxy provides for a longer period. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, or the officer of the Corporation presiding at a meeting of stockholders, in such officer's discretion, may require that any votes cast at such meeting shall be cast by written ballot.
Voting
          Section 7. . Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation may be effected only at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be effected by a consent in writing by such holders in lieu of such a meeting.
No Action by Consent of Stockholders in Lieu of Meeting
          Section 8. . The officer of the Corporation who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder for any purpose germane to the meeting for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, as required by applicable law. Subject to applicable law, the list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder of the Corporation who is present.
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote
          Section 9. . The stock ledger of the Corporation shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list required by Section 8 of this Article II or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
Stock Ledger
          Section 10. . Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors of the Corporation, except as may be otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation with respect to the right of holders of Preferred Stock of the Corporation to nominate and elect a specified number of
Nomination of Directors
 
directors in certain circumstances. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at any annual meeting of stockholders (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 10 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 10.
          In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a nomination to be made by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
          To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders; , , that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the later of (i) ninety (90) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders and (ii) the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs.
provided
however
          To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by the person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice (i) the name and record address of such stockholder, (ii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder, (iii) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nomination (s) are to be made by such stockholder, (iv) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to nominate the persons named in its notice and (v) any other information relating to such stockholder that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected.
          No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 10. If the chairman of the annual meeting determines that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the chairman shall declare to the meeting that the nomination was defective and such defective nomination shall be disregarded.
          Section 11. . No business may be transacted at an annual meeting of stockholders, other than business that is either (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof), (b) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (c) otherwise properly brought before
Business at Annual Meetings
 
the annual meeting by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 11 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 11.
          In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
          To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders; , , that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the later of (i) ninety (90) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders and (ii) the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs.
provided
however
          To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth as to each matter such stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (ii) the name and record address of such stockholder, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder, (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder and any material interest of such stockholder in such business and (v) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting.
          No business shall be conducted at the annual meeting of stockholders except business brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 11; , , that, once business has been properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with such procedures, nothing in this Section 11 shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any stockholder of any such business. If the chairman of an annual meeting determines that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the chairman shall declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting and such business shall not be transacted.
provided
however
          Section 12. . Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors of the Corporation at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, except as may be otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation with respect to the right of holders of Preferred Stock of the Corporation to nominate and elect a specified number of directors in certain circumstances. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (b) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 12 and at the time of the special meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 12. In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a nomination to be made by a stockholder, such
Nominations of Directors at Special Meetings
 
stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
          To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 60th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the 10 day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
th
          To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by the person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice (i) the name and record address of such stockholder, (ii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder, (iii) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nomination (s) are to be made by such stockh older, (iv) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the special meeting to nominate the persons named in its notice and (v) any other information relating to such stockholder that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected.
          No person shall be eligible for election at a special meeting as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 12. If the chairman of the special meeting determines that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the chairman shall declare to the meeting that the nomination was defective and such defective nomination shall be disregarded.
          Section 13. .
Required Vote for Directors
     (A) Majority Vote. Except in cases where, as of the meeting date, the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, each director to be elected by stockholders shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present. For purposes of this By-Law, a majority of votes cast shall mean that the number of shares voted "for" a director's election exceeds 50% of the number of votes cast with respect to that director's election. Votes cast shall include votes to withhold authority in each case and exclude abstentions with respect to that director's election.
     (B) Resignation. If a nominee for director who is an incumbent director is not elected and no successor has been elected at such meeting, the director shall promptly tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors pursuant to the agreement required by Section 14 of these By-Laws. The Committee on Directors' Affairs shall make a recommendation to the Board of Directors as to whether to accept or reject the tendered resignation, or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors shall act
 
on the tendered resignation taking into account the recommendation of the Committee on Directors' Affairs and publicly disclose (by a press release, a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission or other broadly disseminated means of communication) its decision regarding the tendered resignation and the rationale behind the decision within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results. The Committee on Directors'Affairs, in making its recommendation, and the Board of Directors, in making its decision, may each consider any factors or other information that it considers appropriate and relevant. The director who tenders his or her resignation shall not participate in the recommendation of the Committee on Directors' Affairs or the decision of the Board of Directors with respect to his or her resignation. If such incumbent director's resignation is not accepted by the Board of Directors, such director shall continue to serve until his or her successor is duly elected, or his or her earlier resignation or removal. If a director's resignation is accepted by the Board of Directors pursuant to this By-Law, or if a nominee for director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may fill any resulting vacancy or unfilled, newly created directorship pursuant to the provisions of Article III, Section 2 of these By-Laws or may decrease the size of the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions of Article III, Section 1 of these By-Laws.
          Section 14. . To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the Corporation, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under Section 10 or Section 12, as applicable, of this Article II) to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which form of questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary upon written request) that such person (A) will abide by the requirements of Section 13 of this Article II, (B) is not and will not become a party to (1) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the Corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been disclosed to the Corporation or (2) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the Corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, (C) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed therein, and (D) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the Corporation, and will comply with all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the Corporation.
Additional Required Information
          Section 15. . The Board of Directors of the Corporation may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meetings of the stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the chairman of any meeting of the stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the chairman of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) the determination of when the polls shall open and close for any given matter to be voted on at the meeting; (iii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iv) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the chairman of the meeting shall determine; (v) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the
Conduct of Meetings
 
commencement thereof; (vi) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants; and (vii) policies and procedures with respect to the adjournment of such meeting.
          Section 1. . (a) The size of the Board of Directors shall be not less than six and not more than twenty directors, with the exact number to be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. The directors shall be divided, as nearly equally as possible, into three (3) classes, designated Class I, Class II and Class III, as provided in the Certificate of Incorporation. Any director may resign at any time upon written notice to the Corporation. Directors need not be stockholders. Subject to applicable law and to the provisions of Article II of these By-Laws, any person shall be eligible for election as a director; provided that (i) in the case of a director who is also an employee of the Corporation any person (A) who shall have attained the age of 65 shall be ineligible for election or appointment as a director and (B) who ceases to be an employee of the Corporation shall be disqualified from continued service as a director and such person's term of office as a director shall automatically terminate and (ii) in the case of any director, (A) any person who shall have attained the age of 72 shall be ineligible for election or appointment as a director and (B) a director's term of office shall automatically terminate as of the Company's next annual shareholder meeting following such director attaining the age of 72.
Number, Classification and Qualification of Directors
               (b) There shall be no limitation on the qualification of any person to be a director or on the ability of any director to vote on any matter brought before the Board or any Board committee, except (i) as required by applicable law, (ii) as set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or (iii) as set forth in the foregoing Section 1(a) of this Article III or (iv) in any By-Law adopted by the Board of Directors with respect to the eligibility for election as a director upon reaching a specified age or, in the case of employee directors, with respect to the qualification for continuing service of directors upon cessation of employment with the Corporation.
          Section 2. . Unless otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, vacancies arising through death, resignation, removal, an increase in the number of directors or otherwise may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director, or by the stockholders if such vacancy resulted from the action of stockholders (in which event such vacancy may not be filled by the directors or a majority thereof), and the directors so chosen shall hold office until the next election for such class and until their successors are duly elected and qualified, or until their earlier death, resignation or removal.
Vacancies
          Section 3. . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors which may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
Duties and Powers
          Section 4. . The Board of Directors may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or without the State of Delaware. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and at such place as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman, if there be one, the President, or by any director. Notice thereof stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each director either by mail not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time of the meeting, by telephone, telegram, facsimile transmission or other electronic transmission not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the time of the meeting, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances.
Meetings
 
          Section 5. . Except as otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, at all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the entire Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting of the time and place of the adjourned meeting, until a quorum shall be present.
Quorum
          Section 6. . Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all the members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
Actions by Written Consent of the Board
          Section 7. . Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of a conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 7 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Meetings by Means of Conference Telephone
          Section 8. . (a) The Board of Directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board, shall appoint from among its members (i) an Executive Committee, (ii) an Audit and Finance Committee, (iii) a Compensation Committee, (iv) a Committee on Directors' Affairs and (v) a Public Policy Committee (together, the "Standing Committees") each consisting of three (3) (or such greater number as the Board of Directors may designate) directors, to perform the functions assigned to such committees by committee charters adopted by the Board of Directors.
Standing Committees
               (b) The Executive Committee shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it, in each case, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
          Section 9. . The Board of Directors may designate one or more other committees (in addition to the Standing Committees), each such other committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. With respect to all Board committees, the Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of any such committee. With respect to all Board committees, in the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, and in the absence of a designation by the Board of Directors of an alternate member to replace the absent or disqualified member, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any absent or disqualified member. Any Board committee, to the extent permitted by law and provided in the resolution establishing such committee, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. Each Board committee shall keep regular minutes and report to the Board of Directors when required.
Committees
 
          Section 10. . The directors shall be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof and shall receive such compensation for their services as directors and as members of Board committees as shall be determined by the Board of Directors. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
Compensation
          Section 11. . A director may only be removed for cause, such removal to be by the affirmative vote of the shares representing a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the Voting Stock. For purposes of these By-Laws, Voting Stock shall mean the then outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors and shall exclude any class or series of capital stock only entitled to vote in the event of dividend arrearages thereon, whether or not at the time of determination there are any dividend arrearages. Unless the Board of Directors has made a determination that removal is in the best interests of the Corporation (in which case the following definition shall not apply), "cause" for removal of a director shall be deemed to exist only if (i) the director whose removal is proposed has been convicted, or when a director is granted immunity to testify when another has been convicted, of a felony by a court of competent jurisdiction and such conviction is no longer subject to direct appeal; (ii) such director has been found by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors called for that purpose, or by a court of competent jurisdiction to have been guilty of willful misconduct in the performance of his duties to the Corporation in a matter of substantial importance to the Corporation; or (iii) such director has been adjudicated by a court of competent jurisdiction to be mentally incompetent, which mental incompetency directly affects his ability as a director of the Corporation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever holders of outstanding shares of one or more series of Preferred Stock are entitled to elect directors of the Corporation pursuant to the provisions applicable in the case of arrearages in the payment of dividends or other defaults contained in the resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors providing for the establishment of any such series, any such director of the Corporation so elected may be removed in accordance with the provisions of such resolution or resolutions.
Removal
          Section 1. . The officers of the Corporation shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and shall include a Chief Executive Officer; President, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, also may choose a Chairman of the Board (who must be a director) and one or more Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and other officers. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law or the Certificate of Incorporation. The officers of the Corporation need not be stockholders of the Corporation nor, except in the case of the Chairman of the Board, need such officers be directors of the Corporation.
General
          Section 2. . The Board of Directors, at its first meeting held after each annual meeting of stockholders, shall elect the officers of the Corporation who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors; and all officers of the Corporation shall hold office until their successors are chosen and qualified, or until their earlier death, resignation or removal. Any officer elected by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time by the affirmative vote of the Board of Directors. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation shall be filled by the Board of Directors.
Election
          Section 3. . Powers of attorney, proxies, waivers of notice of meeting, consents and other instruments relating to securities owned by the Corporation may be executed in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation by the President or any Vice President or any other officer authorized to do so by the Board of Directors and any such officer
Voting Securities Owned by the Corporation
 
may, in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, take all such action as any such officer may deem advisable to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of security holders of any corporation in which the Corporation may own securities and at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and power incident to the ownership of such securities and which, as the owner thereof, the Corporation might have exercised and possessed if present. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, from time to time confer like powers upon any other person or persons.
          Section 4. . The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall preside at meetings of the Board and of the Corporation's stockholders. The Chairman shall have all the customary duties and responsibilities of such office.
Chairman of the Board of Directors
          Section 5. . The Chief Executive Officer shall have general responsibility for the management of the Corporation as provided in these By-laws, reporting directly to the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer shall have all the customary duties and responsibilities of such office, and all of the Corporation's executive officers shall report directly to him or indirectly to him through another such executive officer who reports to him. The Chief Executive Officer shall also be the President.
Chief Executive Officer; President
          Section 6. . At the request of the Chief Executive Officer or in the Chief Executive Officer's absence or in the event of the Chief Executive Officer's inability or refusal to act (and if there be no Chairman of the Board), the Vice President, or the Vice Presidents if there is more than one, to the extent expressly authorized at such time by the Board of Directors, shall perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Chief Executive Officer. Each Vice President shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors from time to time may prescribe. If there be no Chairman of the Board and no Vice President, the Board of Directors shall designate the officer of the Corporation who, in the absence of the Chief Executive Officer or in the event of the inability or refusal of the Chief Executive Officer to act, shall perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Chief Executive Officer.
Vice Presidents
          Section 7. . The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and all meetings of stockholders and record all the proceedings thereat in a book or books to be kept for that purpose; the Secretary shall also perform like duties for committees of the Board of Directors when required. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, under whose supervision the Secretary shall be. If the Secretary shall be unable or shall refuse to cause to be given notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and if there be no Assistant Secretary, then either the Board of Directors or the President may choose another officer to cause such notice to be given. The Secretary shall have custody of the seal of the Corporation and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, if there be one, shall have authority to affix the same to any instrument requiring it and when so affixed, it may be attested by the signature of the Secretary or by the signature of any such Assistant Secretary. The Board of Directors may give general authority to any other officer to affix the seal of the Corporation and to attest to the affixing by such officer's signature. The Secretary shall see that all books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept or filed are properly kept or filed, as the case may be.
Secretary
          Section 8. . The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, taking proper
Treasurer
 
vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the President and the Board of Directors, at its regular meetings, or when the Board of Directors so requires, an account of all transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation. If required by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of the office of the Treasurer and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of the Treasurer's death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in the Treasurer's possession or under the Treasurer's control belonging to the Corporation.
          Section 9. . Assistant Secretaries, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the President, any Vice President, if there be one, or the Secretary, and in the absence of the Secretary or in the event of the Secretary's disability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Secretary, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Secretary.
Assistant Secretaries
          Section 10. . Assistant Treasurers, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the President, any Vice President, if there be one, or the Treasurer, and in the absence of the Treasurer or in the event of the Treasurer's disability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Treasurer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Treasurer. If required by the Board of Directors, an Assistant Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of the office of Assistant Treasurer and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of the Assistant Treasurer's death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in the Assistant Treasurer's possession or under the Assistant Treasurer's control belonging to the Corporation.
Assistant Treasurers
          Section 11. . Such other officers as the Board of Directors may choose shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may delegate to any other officer of the Corporation the power to choose such other officers and to prescribe their respective duties and powers.
Other Officers
          Section 1. . Effective at such time as the President or any Vice President or the Treasurer of the Corporation, if so authorized by resolution of the Board of Directors, designates in writing to the Corporate Secretary and any transfer agents of the Corporation with respect to any class of stock of the Corporation, the shares of such class shall be uncertificated shares, provided that the foregoing shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation.
Uncertificated and Certificated Shares; Form of Certificates
          Section 2. . Any or all of the signatures on a certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Signatures
          Section 3. . The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate to be issued in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to
Lost Certificates
 
be lost, stolen or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or the owner's legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as the Board of Directors shall require and/or to give the Corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the Corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed or the issuance of such new certificate.
          Section 4. . Stock of the Corporation shall be transferable in the manner prescribed by law and in these By-Laws. Transfers of stock shall be made on the books of the Corporation only by the person named as the holder thereof on the stock records of the Corporation by such person's attorney lawfully constituted in writing, and in the case of shares represented by a certificate upon the surrender of the certificate therefor, which shall be canceled before a new certificate shall be issued. No transfer of stock shall be valid as against the Corporation for any purpose until it shall have been entered in the stock records of the Corporation by an entry showing from and to whom transferred. To the extent designated by the President or any Vice President or the Treasurer of the Corporation, the Corporation may recognize the transfer of fractional uncertificated shares, but shall not otherwise be required to recognize the transfer of fractional shares.
Transfers
          Section 5. .
Record Date
               (a) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; , , that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
provided
however
               (b) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than sixty (60) days prior to such action. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
          Section 6. . The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its books as the owner of shares, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise required by law.
Record Owners
 
          Section 1. . Whenever notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, to be given to any director, member of a committee or stockholder, such notice may be given by mail, addressed to such director, member of a committee or stockholder, at such person's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid, and such notice shall be deemed to be given at the time when the same shall be deposited in the United States mail. Notice may also be given personally, or by telegram, telex, cable, internet or other electronic communication.
Notices
          Section 2. . Whenever any notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, to be given to any director, member of a committee or stockholder, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to said notice, or a waiver by electronic transmission by the person entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto. Attendance of a person at a meeting (including, in the case of a stockholder, by proxy) shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except where the person attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
Waivers of Notice
          Section 1. . Dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the requirements of the Delaware General Corporation Law and the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors (or any action by written consent in lieu thereof in accordance with Section 6 of Article III hereof), and may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the Corporation's capital stock. Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in its absolute discretion, deems proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for any proper purpose, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve.
Dividends
          Section 2. . All checks or demands for money and notes of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such other person or persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate.
Disbursements
          Section 3. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year
          Section 4. . The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its organization and the words "Corporate Seal, Delaware". The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
Corporate Seal
 
          Section 1. . Subject to Section 3 of this Article VIII, the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was a director, officer or employee of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise (any director or officer of the Corporation or director, officer or employee of the Corporation so serving at the request of the Corporation being referred to hereinafter as an "Indemnified Person"), against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe such person's conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the Indemnified Person did not act in good faith and in a manner which such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that such person's conduct was unlawful.
Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or Proceedings other than Those by or in the Right of the Corporation
          Section 2. . Subject to Section 3 of this Article VIII, the Corporation shall indemnify any Indemnified Person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was a director , officer or employee of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation; except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation unless and only to the extent that the Court of Chancery or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper.
Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or Proceedings by or in the Right of the Corporation
          Section 3. . Any indemnification under this Article VIII (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the director or officer is proper in the circumstances because such person has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article VIII, as the case may be. Such determination shall be made, with respect to a person who is a director or officer at the time of such determination, (i) by a majority vote of the directors who are not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, even though less than a quorum, or (ii) by a committee of such directors designated by a majority vote of such directors, even though less than a quorum, or (iii) if there are no such directors, or if such directors so direct, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion or (iv) by the stockholders. Such determination shall be made, with respect to a person who is not a director or officer of the Corporation at the time of such determination, by any
Authorization of Indemnification
 
person or persons having the authority to act on the matter on behalf of the Corporation. To the extent, however, that a present or former director or officer of the Corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding described above, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, such person shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection therewith, without the necessity of authorization in the specific case.
          Section 4. . For purposes of any determination under Section 3 of this Article VIII, a person shall be deemed to have acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, or, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, to have had no reasonable cause to believe such person's conduct was unlawful, if such person's action is based on good faith reliance on the records or books of account of the Corporation or another enterprise, or on information supplied to such person by the officers of the Corporation or another enterprise in the course of their duties, or on the advice of legal counsel for the Corporation or another enterprise or on information or records given or reports made to the Corporation or another enterprise by an independent certified public accountant or by an appraiser or other expert selected with reasonable care by the Corporation or another enterprise. The term "another enterprise" as used in this Section 4 shall mean any other corporation or any partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise of which such person is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent. The provisions of this Section 4 shall not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit in any way the circumstances in which a person may be deemed to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 or 2 of this Article VIII, as the case may be.
Good Faith Defined
          Section 5. . Notwithstanding any contrary determination in the specific case under Section 3 of this Article VIII, and notwithstanding the absence of any determination thereunder, any Indemnified Person may apply to the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware for indemnification to the extent otherwise permissible under Sections 1 and 2 of this Article VIII. The basis of such indemnification by a court shall be a determination by such court that indemnification of the Indemnified Person is proper in the circumstances because such person has met the applicable standards of conduct set forth in Section 1 or 2 of this Article VIII, as the case may be. Neither a contrary determination in the specific case under Section 3 of this Article VIII nor the absence of any determination thereunder shall be a defense to such application or create a presumption that Indemnified Person seeking indemnification has not met any applicable standard of conduct. Notice of any application for indemnification pursuant to this Section 5 shall be given to the Corporation promptly upon the filing of such application. If successful, in whole or in part, the Indemnified Person seeking indemnification shall also be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such application.
Indemnification by a Court
          Section 6. . Expenses incurred by an Indemnified Person in defending any civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit or proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such Indemnified Person to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Article VIII.
Expenses Payable in Advance
          Section 7. . The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by or granted pursuant to this Article VIII shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under the Certificate of Incorporation, any By-Law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in such person's official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, it being the policy of the Corporation that indemnification of the persons specified in Sections 1 and 2 of this Article VIII shall be made to the fullest extent permitted by law. The provisions of this Article VIII shall not be deemed to preclude the
Nonexclusivity of Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses
 
indemnification of any person who is not specified in Section 1 or 2 of this Article VIII but whom the Corporation has the power or obligation to indemnify under the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or otherwise.
          Section 8. . The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any Indemnified Person against any liability asserted against such person and incurred by such person by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or is or was a director, officer or employee of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise , or arising out of such person's status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power or the obligation to indemnify such person against such liability under the provisions of this Article VIII.
Insurance
          Section 9. . For purposes of this Article VIII, references to "the Corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors or officers, so that any person who is or was a director or officer of such constituent corporation, or is or was a director or officer of such constituent corporation serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Article VIII with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as such person would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued. For purposes of this Article VIII, references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the Corporation" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director or officer with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation" as referred to in this Article VIII.
Certain Definitions
          Section 10. . The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Article VIII shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified, continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
Survival of Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses
          Section 11. . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article VIII to the contrary, except for proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification (which shall be governed by Section 5 of this Article VIII), the Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify any director or officer in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person unless such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized or consented to by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Limitation on Indemnification
          Section 12. . The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, provide rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses to employees and agents of the Corporation similar to those conferred in this Article VIII to directors and officers of the Corporation.
Indemnification of Employees and Agents
 
          Section 1. . These By-Laws may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, and new By-Laws may be adopted (i) by the affirmative vote of the shares representing a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the Voting Stock; , , that any proposed alteration, amendment or repeal of, or the adoption of any By-Law inconsistent with, Section 3, 7, 10 or 11 of Article II of these By-Laws or Section 1, 2 or 11 of Article III of these By-Laws or Section 4 or 5 of Article IV of these By-Laws or this sentence, by the stockholders shall require the affirmative vote of shares representing not less than 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the Voting Stock; and , , that in the case of any such stockholder action at a meeting of stockholders, notice of the proposed alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of the new By-Law or By-Laws must be contained in the notice of such meeting, or (ii) by action of the Board of Directors of the Corporation. The provisions of this Section 1 are subject to any contrary provisions and any provisions requiring a greater vote that are set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation and in Section 12 of Article IV of these By-Laws.
Amendments
provided
however
provided further
however
          Section 2. . As used in these By-Laws generally, the term "entire Board of Directors" means the total number of directors the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
Entire Board of Directors
First adopted August 27, 2002, last amended on February 9, 2007

 
Exhibit 99.2
Revised February 9, 2007
Introduction
          This Code of Business Ethics and Conduct covers a wide range of business practices and procedures. It does not cover every issue that may arise, but it sets out basic principles to guide all employees and directors of the Company. All of our employees and directors must conduct themselves accordingly and seek to avoid even the appearance of improper behavior. The Code should also be provided to and followed by the Company's agents and representatives, including consultants.
          If a law conflicts with a policy in this Code, you must comply with the law; however, if a local custom or policy conflicts with this Code, you must comply with the Code. Questions should be referred to the employee's supervisor or to the Company's Ethics Office. The Legal Department may be also consulted, as appropriate.
          Those who violate the standards in this Code will be subject to disciplinary action.
If you are in a situation that you believe may violate or lead to a violation of this Code, follow the guidelines described in Sections 14 and 15 of this Code.
1. Compliance with Laws, Rules and Regulations
          Obeying the law, both in letter and in spirit, is the foundation on which this Company's ethical standards are built. All employees and directors must respect and obey the laws of the cities, states and countries in which we operate. Although not all employees and directors are expected to know the details of these laws, it is important to know enough to determine when to seek advice from supervisors, managers or the Company's Ethics Office.
          The Company holds information and training sessions to promote compliance with laws, rules and regulations.
2. Conflicts of Interest
          A "conflict of interest" exists when a person's private interest interferes in any way with the interests of the Company. A conflict situation can arise when an employee or director takes actions or has interests that may make it difficult to perform his or her Company work objectively and effectively. Conflicts of interest may also arise when an employee or director, or members of his or her family, receives improper personal benefits as a result of his or her position in the Company. Loans to, or guarantees of obligations of, employees or and their family members may create conflicts of interest.
 
          It is almost always a conflict of interest for a Company employee to work simultaneously for a competitor, customer or supplier. Employees are not allowed to work for a competitor as a consultant or board member. The best policy is to avoid any direct or indirect business connection with our customers, suppliers or competitors, except on our behalf.
          Directors should inform the General Counsel prior to accepting appointments to the board of directors or the advisory board of any public or privately held company. The disclosure requirements and other possible conflict of interest issues involved must be analyzed and discussed.
          Conflicts of interest are prohibited as a matter of Company policy, except under guidelines approved by the Board of Directors. Conflicts of interest may not always be clear-cut, so if an employee has a question, he or she should consult with higher levels of management or the Company's Ethics Office. Any employee or director who becomes aware of a conflict or potential conflict should bring it to the attention of a supervisor, manager or other appropriate personnel or consult the procedures described in Section 15 of this Code.
3. Insider Trading
          Employees and directors who have access to confidential information are not permitted to use or share that information for stock trading purposes or for any other purpose except the conduct of our business. All non-public information about the Company and its business relationships should be considered confidential information. To use non-public information for personal financial benefit or to "tip" others who might make an investment decision on the basis of this information is not only unethical but also illegal. If you have any questions, please consult the Company's Ethics Office.
4. Corporate Opportunities
          Employees and directors are prohibited from taking for themselves personally opportunities that are discovered through the use of corporate property, information or position without the consent of the Board of Directors. No employee or director may use corporate property, information, or position for improper personal gain, and no employee may compete with the Company directly or indirectly. Employees and directors owe a duty to the Company to advance its legitimate interests when the opportunity to do so arises.
5. Competition and Fair Dealing
          We seek to outperform our competition fairly and honestly. We seek competitive advantages through superior performance, never through unethical or illegal business practices. Stealing proprietary information, possessing trade secret information that was obtained without the owner's consent, or inducing such disclosures by past or present employees of other companies is prohibited. Each employee should endeavor to respect the rights of and deal fairly with the Company's customers, suppliers, competitors and employees. No employee should take unfair advantage of anyone through manipulation, concealment, abuse of privileged information, misrepresentation of material facts, or any other intentional unfair-dealing practice.
          To maintain the Company's valuable reputation, compliance with our quality processes and safety requirements is essential. In the context of ethics, quality requires that our products and services be designed and manufactured to meet our obligations to customers. All inspection and testing documents must be handled in accordance with all applicable regulations.
 
          The purpose of business entertainment and gifts in a commercial setting is to create good will and sound working relationships, not to gain unfair advantage with customers. No gift or entertainment should ever be offered, given, provided or accepted by any Company employee, director, agent, or family member thereof, unless it: (1) is not a cash gift; (2) is consistent with customary business practices; (3) cannot be construed as a bribe or payoff and (4) does not violate any laws or regulations. Business gifts given or received should be of nominal value. Employees should discuss with their supervisors or the Company's Ethics Office, any gifts or proposed gifts that they are not certain are appropriate.
6. Discrimination and Harassment
          The diversity of the Company's employees and directors is a tremendous asset. We are firmly committed to providing equal opportunity in all aspects of employment and will not tolerate any illegal discrimination or harassment of any kind. Examples include derogatory comments based on racial or ethnic characteristics and unwelcome sexual advances.
7. Health and Safety
          The Company strives to provide each employee with a safe and healthful work environment. Each employee has responsibility for maintaining a safe and healthy workplace for all employees by following safety and health rules and practices and reporting accidents, injuries and unsafe equipment, practices or conditions.
          Violence and threatening behavior are not permitted. Employees should report to work in condition to perform their duties, free from the influence of illegal drugs or alcohol. The use of illegal drugs in the workplace will not be tolerated.
8. Record-Keeping
          The Company requires honest and accurate recording and reporting of information in order to make responsible business decisions. For example, only the true and actual number of hours worked should be reported.
          Many employees regularly use business expense accounts, which must be documented and recorded accurately. If you are not sure whether a certain expense is legitimate, ask your supervisor or your business/functional finance manager. Rules and guidelines are available from the Accounting Department. All of the Company's books, records, accounts and financial statements must be maintained in reasonable detail, must appropriately reflect the Company's transactions and must conform both to applicable legal requirements and to the Company's system of internal controls. Unrecorded or "off the books" funds or assets should not be maintained unless permitted by applicable law or regulation.
          Business records and communications often become public, and we should avoid exaggeration, derogatory remarks, guesswork, or inappropriate characterizations of people and companies that can be misunderstood. This applies equally to e-mail, internal memos, and formal reports. Records should always be retained or destroyed according to the Company's record retention policies. In accordance with those policies, in the event of litigation or governmental investigation please consult the Company's Law Department.
 
9. Confidentiality
          Employees and directors must maintain the confidentiality of confidential information entrusted to them by the Company or its customers, except when disclosure is authorized by the Law Department or required by laws or regulations. Confidential information includes all non-public information that might be of use to competitors, or harmful to the Company or its customers, if disclosed. It also includes information that suppliers and customers have entrusted to us. The obligation to preserve confidential information continues even after employment or directorship terminates.
10. Protection and Proper Use of Company Assets
          All employees and directors should endeavor to protect the Company's assets and ensure their efficient use. Theft, carelessness, and waste have a direct impact on the Company's profitability. Any suspected incident of fraud or theft should be immediately reported for investigation. Company equipment should not be used for non-Company business, though incidental personal use may be permitted.
          The obligation of employees and directors to protect the Company's assets includes its proprietary information. Proprietary information includes intellectual property such as trade secrets, patents, trademarks, and copyrights, as well as business, marketing and service plans, geological or geophysical data, engineering and manufacturing ideas, designs, databases, records, salary information and any unpublished financial data and reports. Unauthorized use or distribution of this information would violate Company policy. It could also be illegal and result in civil or even criminal penalties.
11. Payments to Government Personnel
          The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits giving anything of value, directly or indirectly, to officials of foreign governments or foreign political candidates in order to obtain or retain business. It is strictly prohibited to make illegal payments to government officials of any country. In addition, the U.S. government has a number of laws and regulations regarding business gratuities that may be accepted by U.S. government personnel. The promise, offer or delivery to an official or employee of the U.S. government of a gift, favor or other gratuity in violation of these rules would not only violate Company policy but could also be a criminal offense. State and local governments, as well as foreign governments, may have similar rules. Questions and/or requests for interpretations should be reviewed and all actions preapproved by Company legal counsel responsible for FCPA compliance.
12. Anti-Boycott Laws
          U.S. law prohibits U.S. persons from taking actions or entering into agreements that have the effect of furthering any unsanctioned boycott of a country that is friendly to the United States. This prohibition applies to persons located in the United States (including individuals and companies), U.S. citizens and permanent residents anywhere in the world, and most activities of U.S. subsidiaries abroad.
          In general, these laws prohibit the following actions (and agreements to take such actions) that could further any boycott not approved by the United States: (1) refusing to do business with other persons or companies (because of their nationality, for example); (2) discriminating in employment practices; (3) furnishing information on the race, religion, gender,
 
or national origin of any U.S. person; (4) furnishing information about any person's affiliations or business relationships with a boycotted country or with any person believed to be blacklisted by a boycotting country; or (5) utilizing letters of credit that contain prohibited boycott provisions. The Company is required to report any request to take action, or any attempt to reach agreement on such action, that would violate these prohibitions. You should understand the policies of your business unit that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws. You should also be alert to the fact that boycott-related requests can be subtle and indirect. Questions and/or requests for interpretations should be reviewed and all actions preapproved by Company legal counsel responsible for Anti-boycott compliance.
13. U.S. Embargoes and Sanctions
          The Company complies fully with U.S. economic sanctions and embargoes restricting U.S. persons, corporations and, in some cases, foreign subsidiaries, from doing business with certain countries, groups, and individuals, including organizations associated with terrorist activity and narcotics trafficking. Economic sanctions may prohibit doing business of any kind with targeted governments and organizations, as well as individuals and entities that act on their behalf. Sanctions prohibitions also may restrict investment in a targeted country, as well as trading in goods, technology, and services with a targeted country. U.S. persons may not approve or facilitate transactions by a third party that the U.S. person could not do directly. Questions and/or requests for interpretations should be reviewed and all actions preapproved by Company legal counsel responsible for Sanctions compliance.
14. Reporting any Illegal or Unethical Behavior
          Employees and directors are encouraged to talk to supervisors, managers, the Company's Ethics Office or other appropriate personnel about observed illegal or unethical behavior and, when in doubt, about the best course of action in a particular situation. It is the policy of the Company not to allow retaliation for reports of misconduct by others made in good faith by employees. Employees are expected to cooperate in internal investigations of misconduct.
15. Compliance Procedures
          We must all work to ensure prompt and consistent action against violations of this Code. However, in some situations it is difficult to know right from wrong. Since we cannot anticipate every situation that will arise, it is important that we have a way to approach a new question or problem. These are the steps employees should keep in mind:
 
16. Provisions applicable to the Principal Executive Officer and to the Senior Financial Officers
          The principal executive officer and the senior financial officers of the Company are responsible for full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure in the periodic reports required to be filed by the Company with the SEC. As a result, the principal executive officer and all senior financial officers of the Company are subject to the following specific provisions:
 
17. Waivers of the Code of Business Ethics and Conduct
          Every effort will be made to resolve potential conflicts of interest or other ethics code situations when these are disclosed promptly to management and the parties involved have acted in good faith. In the unlikely event potential conflicts cannot be resolved, waivers will only be given for matters where it is absolutely appropriate under the circumstances and granting of such a waiver will not present a material financial or reputational risk to the Company. All such waivers must be approved, in advance, by the full Board of Directors.
18. Employee Complaint Procedures for Accounting and Auditing Matters
          Any employee of the Company may submit a good faith complaint regarding accounting or auditing matters to the management of the Company without fear of dismissal or retaliation of any kind. The Company is committed to achieving compliance with all applicable securities laws and regulations, accounting standards, accounting controls and audit practices. The Company's Audit and Finance Committee will oversee treatment of employee concerns in this area.
          In order to facilitate the reporting of employee complaints, the Company's Audit and Finance Committee has established the following procedures for (1) the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints regarding accounting, internal accounting controls, or auditing matters ("Accounting Matters") and (2) the confidential, anonymous submission by employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters.
Receipt of Employee Complaints
          
ConocoPhillips Ethics Hotline: 1-877-327-2272
          
ConocoPhillips Corporate Ethics Office website
                                                    
Mail: ConocoPhillips Corporate Ethics Office
600 N. Dairy Ashford, MA 2142
Houston, Texas, U.S.A. 77079-1175
Scope of Matters Covered by These Procedures
These procedures relate to employee complaints relating to any questionable accounting or auditing matters, including, without limitation, the following:
 
Treatment of Complaints
Reporting and Retention of Complaints and Investigations
The Corporate Ethics Office will maintain a log of all complaints, tracking their receipt, investigation and resolution and shall prepare a periodic summary report thereof for the Audit and Finance Committee. Copies of complaints and such log will be maintained as directed by the Audit and Finance Committee.
19. Directors and Executive Officer Related Party Transactions.
     A "related party transaction" is a transaction in which the Company (including its affiliates) is a participant and in which any director or executive officer (or their immediate family members) had or will have a direct or indirect material interest. Although not all related party transactions involve conflicts of interest, such transactions can trigger disclosure requirements which must be analyzed by the Company. Therefore, all directors and executive officers shall promptly bring to the attention of the General Counsel and, in the case of directors, the Chair of the Committee on Directors' Affairs or, in the case of executive officers, the Chair of the Audit and Finance Committee, any transaction or relationship that arises and of which she or he becomes aware that reasonably could be expected to constitute a "related party transaction."


