FILE:COP/COP-8K-20101006141205.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
          On October 6, 2010 ConocoPhillips announced the following actions concerning the Company's executive officers, effective immediately:
          In announcing the retirements of Messrs. Carrig, Cornelius and Meyers, the Board of Directors noted their appreciation of the long and valuable service provided by such officers to the Company.
          The information regarding Messrs. Chiang and Sheets required under Items 401 (b), (d) and (e) and Item 404 (a) of Regulation S-K is included under "Executive Officers of the Registrant" on pages 28 and 29 of ConocoPhillips' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2009 and is incorporated herein by reference.
          Mr. Greg C. Garland, age 52, has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron Phillips Chemical Company ("CPChem") since 2008. Prior to his appointment as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of CPChem, Mr. Garland served as Senior Vice President, Planning and Specialty Products at CPChem from 2000 to 2008.
          Mr. Alan (Al) J. Hirshberg, age 49, has served as Vice President, Worldwide Deepwater and Africa Projects, ExxonMobil since 2009. Mr. Hirshberg previously served in the following positions at ExxonMobil: Vice President, Worldwide Deepwater Projects (2008-2009); Vice
 
President, Established Areas Projects (2006-2008); Vice President, Operated by Others Projects (2006); and Project Executive, Deepwater Africa Projects (2004-2006).
          All executive officers participate in the same compensation programs as our named executive officers, as more fully described under "Compensation Discussion and Analysis" on pages 43 through 56 of ConocoPhillips Proxy Statement relating to its 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, as filed with the SEC on March 31, 2010 (and such description is incorporated herein by reference).
          In connection with Mr. Garland's appointment as an officer and as an incentive to his acceptance of an employment offer, Mr. Garland was awarded restricted stock units having a grant date value of $1 million, with restrictions lapsing in two equal annual installments beginning on the first anniversary of his employment date. In connection with Mr. Hirshberg's appointment as an officer, as an incentive to his acceptance of an employment offer and in recognition of forgone compensation from his prior employer, Mr. Hirshberg was (a) awarded a cash bonus of $3 million; (b) awarded restricted stock units having a grant date value of $2.9 million, with restrictions lapsing on the third anniversary of his employment date; and (c) credited a balance of $6,357,436 in his account under the Company's Key Employee Deferred Compensation Plan of which 47% will be payable to Mr. Hirshberg on each of the first and second anniversaries of his employment and the balance of which will be payable on the third anniversary of his employment.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


