FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20041221152311.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. has entered into a tentative settlement of the consolidated putative class actions pending against PNC in the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. This tentative settlement is reflected in a Memorandum of Understanding dated as of December 17, 2004 between the plaintiffs and PNC, certain of our former and current executive officers, and AIG Financial Products Corp.
 
The tentative settlement of this lawsuit is subject to completion of final documentation, court approval and other conditions, including some that are outside the control of the parties.
 
At the same time, we settled all claims between us, on the one hand, and AIG Financial Products and its affiliate, American International Surplus Lines Insurance Company ("AISLIC"), on the other hand, related to the subject matter of the litigation. AIG Financial Products was our counterparty in the transactions that gave rise to the events that constitute the subject matter of this lawsuit, which we refer to as the PAGIC transactions. AISLIC is one of our insurers.
 
The following are the key elements of these settlements:
 
 
The plaintiffs have been in contact with the Administrator of the Restitution Fund established pursuant to the Deferred Prosecution Agreement dated June 2, 2003 between the United States Department of Justice and our subsidiary, PNC ICLC Corp., and intend to coordinate the administration and distribution of the Settlement Fund with the distribution of the Restitution Fund.
 
Neither PNC nor any of our current or former officers, directors or employees will be required to contribute any funds to this settlement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
PNC and AIG are releasing each other with respect to all claims between us arising out of the PAGIC transactions.
 
We expect pretax net income to be increased by the net amount of $9.25 million in the fourth quarter of 2004 resulting from our settlements with AIG Financial Products and AISLIC. There will be no financial impact to PNC from the settlement of the class action lawsuit.
 
We will be responsible for the costs of administering the settlement and may incur additional costs in the future in connection with the advancement of expenses and/or indemnification obligations related to the subject matter of this lawsuit. We do not expect such costs to be material.
 
The legal proceedings and other matters that are the subject of this Item 8.01 are discussed in more detail in Part II, Item 1 of our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


