FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20050429110919.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On April 26, 2005, the Nominating and Governance Committee of the board of directors of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. conducted its annual review of compensation for the board's non-management directors. The committee discussed a report prepared by its outside compensation consultant on director compensation practices among PNC's peer group members and Fortune 500 companies generally. Based in part on that report, the committee voted to increase the annual cash committee chairman's retainer for the chairman of the board's Audit Committee from $10,000 to $20,000, effective the second quarter of 2005. In making its decision, the committee also took into account the significant increase in the Audit Committee chairman's workload and responsibilities during recent years.
 
The committee made no other changes to the annual retainer and meeting fee schedules for non-management directors. These schedules as so revised are shown below.
 
:
Annual Retainer Schedule
 
 
Non-management directors continue to be eligible to participate in the Directors Deferred Compensation Plan, to receive equity-based grants under the 1992 Director Share Incentive Plan, the 1997 Long- Term Incentive Award Plan, and the Outside Directors Deferred Stock Unit Plan, and to receive the other director benefits described in our proxy statement for the 2005 annual meeting of shareholders that was held on April 26, 2005.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


