FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20050421113124.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 21, 2005, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ("the Corporation") issued a press release and held a conference call for investors regarding the Corporation's earnings and business results for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. The Corporation also provided supplementary financial information on its web site, including financial information disclosed in connection with its earnings press release and related investor conference call. A copy of this supplementary financial information is included in this Report as Exhibit 99.1 and is furnished herewith.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
The information contained in this Financial Supplement is preliminary, unaudited and based on data available at April 21, 2005. We have reclassified certain prior period amounts included in this Financial Supplement to be consistent with the current period presentation. This information speaks only as of the particular date or dates included in the schedules. We do not undertake any obligation to, and disclaim any duty to, correct or update any of the information provided in this Financial Supplement. Our future financial performance is subject to risks and uncertainties as described in our SEC filings.
 
The average full-time equivalent employee (FTE) statistics disclosed in this Financial Supplement for each business segment reflect staff directly employed by the respective business segment and exclude corporate and shared services employees.
 
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (PNC) and Riggs National Corporation (Riggs) have filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) a proxy statement/prospectus and will file other relevant documents concerning the merger of Riggs with and into PNC (Merger). We urge investors to read the proxy statement/prospectus and any other documents to be filed with the SEC in connection with the Merger or incorporated by reference in the proxy statement/prospectus, because they will contain important information. Investors will be able to obtain these documents free of charge at the SEC's website (). In addition, documents filed with the SEC by PNC will be available free of charge from Shareholder Relations at (800) 843-2206. Documents filed with the SEC by Riggs will be available free of charge from www.riggsbank.com.
www.sec.gov
 
The directors, executive officers, and certain other members of management of Riggs may be soliciting proxies in favor of the Merger from its shareholders. For information about these directors, executive officers, and members of management, shareholders are asked to refer to Riggs' most recent annual meeting proxy statement, which is available at the web addresses provided in the preceding paragraph.
 
(Unaudited)
Consolidated Income Statement
 
 
(Unaudited)
Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
 
(Unaudited) (a)
Results of Businesses - Summary and Reconciliation to Total Consolidated Results
 
Three months ended  dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
We believe that total banking businesses earnings, as adjusted, provides useful information to investors. Net gains on institutional loans held for sale have declined significantly compared with the first quarter of 2004 as the related remaining institutional lending held for sale loan portfolio has declined from $61 million at March 31, 2004 to $2 million at March 31, 2005. In addition, the assets and underlying relationships reflected in this portfolio are not included in our ongoing business strategy for Wholesale Banking.
 
(Unaudited) (a)
Regional Community Banking
 
 
(Unaudited) (a)
Wholesale Banking
 
 
(Unaudited) (a)
PNC Advisors
 
 
(Unaudited)
PNC Advisors
 
Efficiency ratios
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP amounts with amounts used in the calculation of adjusted efficiency ratio:
 
 
 
 
(Unaudited) (a)
BlackRock
 
 
We believe that operating margin, as adjusted, is a more relevant indicator of management's ability to effectively employ BlackRock's resources. The portion of the LTIP charges associated with awards to be met with the contribution of shares of BlackRock stock by PNC has been excluded from operating income because, exclusive of impact related to LTIP participants' option to put awarded shares to BlackRock, this non-cash charge will not impact BlackRock's book value. Appreciation on Rabbi trust assets related to BlackRock's deferred compensation plans has been excluded because investment performance of these assets has a nominal impact on net income. Reimbursable property management compensation represents compensation and benefits paid to certain BlackRock Realty Advisors, Inc. ("Realty") personnel. These employees are retained on Realty's payroll when properties are acquired by Realty's clients. The related compensation and benefits are fully reimbursed by Realty's clients and have been excluded from operating margin, as adjusted, because they bear no economic cost to BlackRock. We have excluded fund administration and servicing costs from the operating margin calculation because these costs are a fixed, asset-based expense which can fluctuate based on the discretion of a third party.
 
 
(Unaudited) (a)
PFPC
 
 
(Unaudited)
Details of Net Interest Income, Net Interest Margin and Trading Revenue
 
Taxable-equivalent basis
 
 
 
 
 
(Unaudited)
Details of Noninterest Income, Noninterest Expense and Effective Tax Rate
In millions
 
 
The third quarter 2004 effective tax rate reflects a $14 million reduction in income tax expense following our determination that we no longer require an income tax reserve related to bank-owned life insurance. See our third quarter 2004 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information.
 
The fourth quarter 2004 effective tax rate reflects a $10 million income tax benefit resulting from the release of reserves allocated to BlackRock's New York City tax liability due to the receipt of a favorable preliminary audit finding for the tax years 1998 through 2000.
 
The first quarter 2005 effective tax rate reflects the $45 million impact of the reversal of certain deferred tax liabilities in connection with the transfer of our ownership interest in BlackRock from PNC Bank, National Association to our intermediate bank holding company, PNC Bancorp, Inc. See Note 31 Subsequent Events in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2004 Form 10-K for additional information.
 
(Unaudited)
Average Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
 
(Unaudited) (Continued)
Average Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
 
(Unaudited)
Details of Loans and Lending Statistics
 
Loans
 
 
 
Consumer Loan Statistic (c)
 
(c) Includes consumer, residential mortgage and vehicle leasing. During the second quarter of 2004, we sold our consumer vehicle leasing business.
 
Allowances for Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit and
(Unaudited)
Net Unfunded Commitments
 
Change in Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses
 
 
Change in Allowance for Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit
 
 
(Unaudited)
Details of Nonperforming Assets
 
Nonperforming Assets by Type
 
 
Change in Nonperforming Assets
 
 
(Unaudited) (Continued)
Details of Nonperforming Assets
 
Nonperforming Assets by Business
 
 
Largest Nonperforming Assets at March 31, 2005 - in millions (c)
 
 
 
Glossary of Terms
 
- Net domestic and foreign fund investment assets for which we provide accounting and administration services. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Accounting/administration net fund assets
 
- Primarily comprised of total average quarterly (or annual) assets plus (less) unrealized losses (gains) on available-for-sale debt securities, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets.
Adjusted average total assets
 
- Adjusted to reflect a full year of activity.
Annualized
 
- Assets over which we have sole or shared investment authority for our customers/clients. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Assets under management
 
- Represents the amount of resources that a business segment should hold to guard against potentially large losses that could cause insolvency. It is based on a measurement of economic risk, as opposed to risk as defined by regulatory bodies or generally accepted accounting principles. The economic capital measurement process involves converting a risk distribution to the capital that is required to support the risk, consistent with an institution's target credit rating. As such, economic risk serves as a "common currency" of risk that allows an institution to compare different risks on a similar basis.
Capital
 
- Process of removing a loan or portion of a loan from a bank's balance sheet because the loan is considered uncollectible. A charge-off also is recorded when a loan is transferred to held for sale and the loan's market value is less than its carrying amount.
Charge-off
 
- Common shareholders' equity divided by total assets. Common shareholders' equity equals total shareholders' equity less preferred stock and the portion of capital surplus and retained interest related to the preferred stock.
Common shareholders' equity to total assets
 
- All investment assets held on behalf of clients under safekeeping arrangements. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Investment assets held in custody at other institutions on our behalf are included in the appropriate asset categories on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as if physically held by us.
Custody assets
 
- Financial contracts whose value is derived from publicly traded securities, interest rates, currency exchange rates or market indices. Derivatives cover a wide assortment of financial contracts, including forward contracts, futures, options and swaps.
Derivatives
 
- Assets that generate income, which include: short-term investments; loans held for sale; loans, net of unearned income; securities; federal funds sold; resale agreements; and certain other assets.
Earning assets
 
- The present value of the expected cash flows of our existing assets less the present value of the expected cash flows of our existing liabilities, plus the present value of the net cash flows of our existing off-balance sheet positions.
Economic value of equity ("EVE")
 
- A measurement, expressed in years, that, when multiplied by a change in interest rates, would approximate the percentage change in value of on- and off-balance sheet positions.
Effective duration
 
- Noninterest expense divided by the sum of net interest income and noninterest income.
Efficiency
 
- A management accounting methodology designed to recognize the net interest income effects of sources and uses of funds provided by the assets and liabilities of business segments. These assets and liabilities are assigned funding rates that represent the interest cost for us to raise/invest funds with similar maturity and repricing structures, using the least-cost funding sources available.
Funds transfer pricing
 
- Tier 1 risk-based capital divided by adjusted average total assets.
Leverage ratio
 
- Annualized taxable-equivalent net interest income divided by average earning assets.
Net interest margin
 
- Assets we hold for our customers/clients in a non-discretionary, custodial capacity. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Nondiscretionary assets under administration
 
- - Total noninterest income divided by total revenue. Total revenue includes total noninterest income plus net interest income.
Noninterest income to total revenue
 
- Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans, troubled debt restructured loans, nonaccrual loans held for sale, foreclosed assets and other assets. Interest income does not accrue on assets classified as nonperforming.
Nonperforming assets
 
- Nonperforming loans include loans to commercial, lease financing, consumer, commercial real estate and residential mortgage customers as well as troubled debt restructured loans. Nonperforming loans do not include nonaccrual loans held for sale or foreclosed and other assets. Interest income does not accrue on loans classified as nonperforming.
Nonperforming loans
 
- Cash proceeds received on a loan that had previously been charged off. The amount received is credited to the allowance for loan and lease losses.
Recovery
 
- Annualized net income divided by average capital.
Return on capital
 
- Annualized net income divided by average assets.
Return on average assets
 
- Annualized net income divided by average common shareholders' equity.
Return on average common equity
 
- Primarily computed by the assignment of specific risk-weights (as defined by The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) to assets and off-balance sheet instruments.
Risk-weighted assets
 
- The process of legally transforming financial assets into securities.
Securitization
 
- Period-end total shareholders' equity divided by total period-end assets.
Shareholders' equity to total assets
 
- Common shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets (excluding mortgage servicing rights) divided by total assets less goodwill and other intangible assets (excluding mortgage servicing rights).
Tangible common capital ratio
 
- The interest income earned on certain assets is completely or partially exempt from federal income tax. As such, these tax-exempt instruments typically yield lower returns than a taxable investment. To provide more meaningful comparisons of yields and margins for all earning assets, the interest income earned on tax-exempt assets is increased to make them fully equivalent to other taxable interest income investments.
Taxable-equivalent interest
 
- Tier 1 capital equals: total shareholders' equity, plus trust preferred capital securities, plus certain minority interests that are held by others; less goodwill and certain intangible assets, less equity investments in nonfinancial companies and less net unrealized holding losses on available-for-sale equity securities. Net unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale equity securities, net unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities and net unrealized holding gains (losses) on cash flow hedge derivatives are excluded from total shareholders' equity for tier 1 capital purposes.
Tier 1 risk-based capital
 
- Tier 1 risk-based capital divided by period-end risk-weighted assets.
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
 
- Total domestic and foreign fund investment assets for which we provide related processing services. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Total fund assets serviced
 
- The sum of total transaction deposits, savings accounts, certificates of deposit, other time deposits and deposits in foreign offices.
Total deposits
 
- Tier 1 risk-based capital plus qualifying senior and subordinated debt, other minority interest not qualified as tier 1, and the allowance for loan and lease losses, subject to certain limitations.
Total risk-based capital
 
- Total risk-based capital divided by period-end risk-weighted assets.
Total risk-based capital ratio
 
- The sum of money market and interest-bearing demand deposits and demand and other noninterest-bearing deposits.
Transaction deposits
 
- A graph showing the relationship between the yields on financial instruments or market indices of the same credit quality with different maturities. For example, a "normal" or "positive" yield curve exists when long-term bonds have higher yields than short-term bonds. A "flat" yield curve exists when yields are the same for short-term and long-term bonds. A "steep" yield curve exists when yields on long-term bonds are significantly higher than on short-term bonds.
Yield curve (shape of the yield curve, flat yield curve)
 
Business Segment Products and Services
 
provides deposit, lending, and cash management services, and investment services through PNC Investments, LLC, to 2.2 million consumer and small business customers within PNC's primary geographic footprint.
Regional Community Banking
 
provides lending, treasury management, capital markets-related products and services, and commercial loan servicing to mid-sized corporations, government entities and selectively to large corporations. Lending products include secured and unsecured loans, letters of credit and equipment leases. Treasury management services include cash and investment management, receivables management, disbursement services, funds transfer services, information reporting, and global trade services. Capital markets products include foreign exchange, derivatives, loan syndications and securities underwriting and distribution. Wholesale Banking provides products and services generally within PNC's primary geographic markets and provides certain products and services nationally.
Wholesale Banking
 
provides a broad range of tailored investment, trust and private banking products and services to affluent individuals and families, including services to the ultra-affluent through its Hawthorn unit and full-service brokerage through J.J.B. Hilliard, W.L. Lyons, Inc. PNC Advisors also serves as investment manager and trustee for employee benefit plans and charitable and endowment assets and provides nondiscretionary defined contribution plan services and investment options through its Vested Interest
PNC Advisors
product. PNC Advisors provides services to individuals and corporations primarily within PNC's primary geographic markets.
 
is one of the largest publicly traded investment management firms in the United States. BlackRock manages assets on behalf of institutional and individual investors worldwide through a variety of equity, fixed income, liquidity and alternative investment products. Mutual funds include the flagship fund families, and (formerly BlackRock Provident Institutional Funds). In addition, BlackRock provides risk management, investment system outsourcing and financial advisory services to a growing number of institutional investors.
BlackRock
BlackRock Funds
BlackRock Liquidity Funds
 
is among the largest providers of mutual fund transfer agency and accounting and administration services in the United States, offering a wide range of fund processing services to the investment management industry and providing processing solutions to the international marketplace through its Ireland and Luxembourg operations.
PFPC


