FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20050222163509.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
2004 Compensation
 
On February 16, 2005, the Personnel and Compensation Committee of the board of directors of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. authorized the payment of 2004 annual incentive awards to the company's executive officers. The committee took this action after consulting with the board's other non-management and independent directors in executive session.
 
The annual incentive awards for James E. Rohr, PNC's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and the company's next four most highly compensated executive officers are made under PNC's 1996 Executive Incentive Award Plan, as amended. For 2004, the five participants in this plan share in a compensation pool equal to one-half of one percent of PNC's 2004 consolidated pre-tax net income. This amount is determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, after adjustment for unusual, infrequently occurring or extraordinary items or cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles, as defined under generally accepted accounting principles. The annual incentive awards made to these five executive officers are designed to be performance-based compensation that is eligible for federal income tax deductibility under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
 
The amount of the incentive award that could be paid to each of these executive officers is capped at the maximum percentage of the compensation pool which could be paid to the participant, which was set by the committee at the beginning of 2004. Subject to the caps, the final amount of the award was determined by the committee based on such qualitative and quantitative performance factors as the committee deemed relevant. The committee used the following performance factors, among others, in determining the amount of an executive officer's 2004 annual incentive award:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The 2004 incentive compensation for these five executive officers, together with other compensation paid or awarded to them for 2004, is shown in the table below. For comparative purposes, the table also provides the amounts of compensation for these executive officers for 2003 and 2002.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2005 Compensation
 
On February 15, 2005, the committee:
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


