FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20051020135100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 20, 2005, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ("the Corporation") issued a press release and held a conference call for investors regarding the Corporation's earnings and business results for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. The Corporation also provided supplementary financial information on its web site, including financial information disclosed in connection with its earnings press release, and provided electronic presentation slides on its web site used in connection with the related investor conference call. Copies of the supplementary financial information and electronic presentation slides are included in this Report as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are furnished herewith.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained in this Financial Supplement is preliminary, unaudited and based on data available at October 20, 2005. We have reclassified certain prior period amounts included in this Financial Supplement to be consistent with the current period presentation. This information speaks only as of the particular date or dates included in the schedules. We do not undertake any obligation to, and disclaim any duty to, correct or update any of the information provided in this Financial Supplement. Our future financial performance is subject to risks and uncertainties as described in our SEC filings.
 
The period-end headcount statistics disclosed in this Financial Supplement for each business segment reflect full-time staff directly employed by the respective business segment and exclude corporate and shared services employees.
Page 1
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited)
Consolidated Income Statement
 
Page 2
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
 
Page 3
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The second quarter 2005 effective tax rate reflects a $6 million increase in deferred taxes related to the Riggs acquisition.
 
The first quarter 2005 effective tax rate reflects the $45 million impact of the reversal of certain deferred tax liabilities in connection with the transfer of our ownership interest in BlackRock from PNC Bank, National Association to our intermediate bank holding company, PNC Bancorp, Inc. See our first quarter 2005 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information.
 
The fourth quarter 2004 effective tax rate reflects a $10 million income tax benefit resulting from the release of reserves allocated to BlackRock's New York City tax liability due to the receipt of a favorable preliminary audit finding for the tax years 1998 through 2000.
 
The third quarter 2004 effective tax rate reflects a $14 million reduction in income tax expense following our determination that we no longer require an income tax reserve related to bank-owned life insurance. See our third quarter 2004 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information.
Page 4
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited)
Consumer Banking
 
 
Page 5
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited) (Continued)
Consumer Banking
 
 
Page 6
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited)
Institutional Banking
 
 
 
 
Page 7
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited) (a)
BlackRock
 
 
 
We believe that operating margin, as adjusted, is an effective indicator of management's ability to, and useful to management in deciding how to, effectively employ BlackRock's resources and, as such, provides useful disclosure to investors. The portion of the LTIP expense associated with awards to be met by the distribution to the LTIP participants of shares of BlackRock stock currently held by PNC has been excluded from operating income because it will result in no economic cost to BlackRock and, exclusive of the impact related to LTIP participants' option to put awarded shares to BlackRock, these charges will not impact BlackRock's book value. Compensation expense associated with appreciation on assets related to BlackRock's deferred compensation plans has been excluded because investment returns on these assets reported in nonoperating income results in a nominal impact on net income. Reimbursable property management compensation represents compensation and benefits paid to certain BlackRock Realty Advisors, Inc. ("Realty") personnel. These employees are retained on Realty's payroll when properties are acquired by Realty's clients. The related compensation and benefits are fully reimbursed by Realty's clients and have been excluded from operating margin, as adjusted, because they bear no economic cost to BlackRock. We have excluded fund administration and servicing costs from the operating margin calculation because these costs fluctuate based on the discretion of a third party.
Page 8
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited) (a)
PFPC
 
 
Page 9
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited)
Details of Net Interest Income, Net Interest Margin, and Trading Revenue
 
Taxable-equivalent basis
 
Page 10
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited)
Efficiency Ratios
 
Page 11
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
 
Page 12
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited) (Continued)
Average Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
Page 13
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited)
Details of Loans and Lending Statistics
 
Loans
 
 
 
Page 14
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
Allowances for Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit and
(Unaudited)
Net Unfunded Commitments
 
Change in Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses
 
Page 15
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited)
Details of Nonperforming Assets
 
Nonperforming Assets by Type
 
Page 16
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
 
Nonperforming Assets by Business
 
 
Largest Nonperforming Assets at September 30, 2005 - in millions (b)
 
Page 17
 
Glossary of Terms
 
- Net domestic and foreign fund investment assets for which we provide accounting and administration services. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Accounting/administration net fund assets
 
- Primarily comprised of total average quarterly (or annual) assets plus (less) unrealized losses (gains) on available-for-sale debt securities, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets.
Adjusted average total assets
 
- Adjusted to reflect a full year of activity.
Annualized
 
- Assets over which we have sole or shared investment authority for our customers/clients. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Assets under management
 
- Process of removing a loan or portion of a loan from a bank's balance sheet because the loan is considered uncollectible. A charge-off is also recorded when a loan is transferred to held for sale and the loan's market value is less than its carrying amount.
Charge-off
 
- Common shareholders' equity divided by total assets. Common shareholders' equity equals total shareholders' equity less the liquidation value of preferred stock.
Common shareholders' equity to total assets
 
- All investment assets held on behalf of clients under safekeeping arrangements. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Investment assets held in custody at other institutions on our behalf are included in the appropriate asset categories on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as if physically held by us.
Custody fund assets
 
- Financial contracts whose value is derived from publicly traded securities, interest rates, currency exchange rates or market indices. Derivatives cover a wide assortment of financial contracts, including forward contracts, futures, options and swaps.
Derivatives
 
 An estimate of the rate sensitivity of a firm's economic value of equity. A negative duration of equity is associated with asset sensitivity (i.e., positioned for rising interest rates), while a positive value implies liability sensitivity (i.e., vulnerable to rising rates). For example, if the duration of equity is +1.5 years, the economic value of equity declines by 1.5% for each 100 basis point increase in interest rates.
Duration of equity
 
- Assets that generate interest income, which include: federal funds sold; resale agreements; other short-term investments, including trading securities; loans held for sale; loans, net of unearned income; securities; and certain other assets.
Earning assets
 
- Represents the amount of resources that a business segment should hold to guard against potentially large losses that could cause insolvency. It is based on a measurement of economic risk, as opposed to risk as defined by regulatory bodies or generally accepted accounting principles. The economic capital measurement process involves converting a risk distribution to the capital that is required to support the risk, consistent with an institution's target credit rating. As such, economic risk serves as a "common currency" of risk that allows an institution to compare different risks on a similar basis.
Economic capital
 
- The present value of the expected cash flows of our existing assets less the present value of the expected cash flows of our existing liabilities, plus the present value of the net cash flows of our existing off-balance sheet positions.
Economic value of equity ("EVE")
 
- A measurement, expressed in years, that, when multiplied by a change in interest rates, would approximate the percentage change in value of on- and off-balance sheet positions.
Effective duration
 
- Noninterest expense divided by the sum of net interest income and noninterest income.
Efficiency
Page 18
 
- A management accounting methodology designed to recognize the net interest income effects of sources and uses of funds provided by the assets and liabilities of business segments. These balances are assigned funding rates that represent the interest cost for us to raise/invest funds with similar maturity and repricing structures, using the least-cost funding sources available.
Funds transfer pricing
 
 Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
GAAP
 
- Tier 1 risk-based capital divided by adjusted average total assets.
Leverage ratio
 
- Annualized taxable-equivalent net interest income divided by average earning assets.
Net interest margin
 
- Assets we hold for our customers/clients in a non-discretionary, custodial capacity. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Nondiscretionary assets under administration
 
- Noninterest income divided by the sum of net interest income and noninterest income.
Noninterest income to total revenue
 
- Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans, troubled debt restructured loans, nonaccrual loans held for sale, and foreclosed and other assets. Interest income does not accrue on assets classified as nonperforming.
Nonperforming assets
 
- Nonperforming loans include loans to commercial, lease financing, consumer, commercial real estate and residential mortgage customers as well as troubled debt restructured loans. Nonperforming loans do not include nonaccrual loans held for sale or foreclosed and other assets. Interest income does not accrue on loans classified as nonperforming.
Nonperforming loans
 
- Cash proceeds received on a loan that had previously been charged off. The amount received is credited to the allowance for loan and lease losses.
Recovery
 
- Annualized net income divided by average capital.
Return on average capital
 
- Annualized net income divided by average assets.
Return on average assets
 
- Annualized net income divided by average common shareholders' equity.
Return on average common equity
 
- Primarily computed by the assignment of specific risk-weights (as defined by The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) to assets and off-balance sheet instruments.
Risk-weighted assets
 
- The process of legally transforming financial assets into securities.
Securitization
 
- Common shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets (excluding mortgage servicing rights) divided by assets less goodwill and other intangible assets (excluding mortgage servicing rights).
Tangible common capital ratio
 
- The interest income earned on certain assets is completely or partially exempt from federal income tax. As such, these tax-exempt instruments typically yield lower returns than a taxable investment. To provide more meaningful comparisons of yields and margins for all earning assets, the interest income earned on tax-exempt assets is increased to make it fully equivalent to interest income on other taxable investments. This adjustment is not permitted under GAAP on the Consolidated Income Statement.
Taxable-equivalent interest
 
- Tier 1 risk-based capital equals: total shareholders' equity, plus trust preferred capital securities, plus certain minority interests that are held by others; less goodwill and certain other intangible assets, less equity investments in nonfinancial companies and less net unrealized holding losses
Tier 1 risk-based capital
Page 19
 
on available-for-sale equity securities. Net unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale equity securities, net unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities and net unrealized holding gains (losses) on cash flow hedge derivatives are excluded from total shareholders' equity for tier 1 risk-based capital purposes.
 
- Tier 1 risk-based capital divided by period-end risk-weighted assets.
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
 
- Total domestic and offshore fund investment assets for which we provide related processing services. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Total fund assets serviced
 
- Tier 1 risk-based capital plus qualifying senior and subordinated debt, other minority interest not qualified as tier 1, and the allowance for loan and lease losses, subject to certain limitations.
Total risk-based capital
 
- Total risk-based capital divided by period-end risk-weighted assets.
Total risk-based capital ratio
 
- The sum of money market and interest-bearing demand deposits and demand and other noninterest-bearing deposits.
Transaction deposits
 
- A graph showing the relationship between the yields on financial instruments or market indices of the same credit quality with different maturities. For example, a "normal" or "positive" yield curve exists when long-term bonds have higher yields than short-term bonds. A "flat" yield curve exists when yields are the same for short-term and long-term bonds. A "steep" yield curve exists when yields on long-term bonds are significantly higher than on short-term bonds.
Yield curve (shape of the yield curve, flat yield curve)
Page 20
 
Business Segment Products and Services
 
provides deposit, lending, brokerage, trust, investment management and cash management services to approximately 2.5 million consumer and small business customers. Our customers are serviced through 830 offices in our branch network, the call center located in Pittsburgh and the Internet  . The branch network is located mainly in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Ohio, Kentucky, Delaware and the Greater Washington, D.C. area, including Virginia and Maryland. Brokerage services are provided through PNC Investments, LLC, and J.J.B. Hilliard, W.L. Lyons, Inc. Consumer Banking also serves as investment manager and trustee for employee benefit plans and charitable and endowment assets and provides nondiscretionary defined contribution plan services and investment options through its product. These services are provided to individuals and corporations primarily within our primary geographic markets.
Consumer Banking
www.pncbank.com
Vested Interest
 
provides lending, treasury management, and capital markets-related products and services and commercial loan servicing to mid-sized corporations, government entities and selectively to large corporations. Lending products include secured and unsecured loans, letters of credit and equipment leases. Treasury management services include cash and investment management, receivables management, disbursement services, funds transfer services, information reporting, and global trade services. Capital markets-related products include foreign exchange, derivatives, loan syndications and securities underwriting and distribution. Institutional Banking provides products and services generally within PNC's primary geographic markets and provides certain products and services nationally.
Institutional Banking
 
is one of the largest publicly traded investment management firms in the United States. BlackRock manages assets on behalf of institutional and individual investors worldwide through a variety of equity, fixed income, cash management and alternative investment products. Mutual funds include the flagship fund families and (formerly BlackRock Provident Institutional Funds). In addition, BlackRock provides risk management, investment system outsourcing and financial advisory services to a growing number of institutional investors.
BlackRock
BlackRock Funds
BlackRock Liquidity Funds
 
is among the largest providers of mutual fund transfer agency and accounting and administration services in the United States. PFPC offers a wide range of fund processing services to the investment management industry and provides processing solutions to the international marketplace through its Ireland and Luxembourg operations.
PFPC

 
Exhibit 99.2
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.
Third Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call
October 20, 2005
 
Third Quarter 2005 Highlights
Earned $334 million or $1.14 per diluted share Strong revenue growth Loans and deposits continued to grow
Recent acquisitions represent new opportunities for growth
Efficiency improved and implementation of One PNC initiatives on track
Asset quality remained very strong
 
Business Results are Gaining Momentum
Quarter Ended September 30
Return on Avg. Capital
$ millions Earnings (Loss)
2005 2004 Growth 2005
Consumer Banking $176 $158 11% 24%
Institutional Banking 118 100 18% 27%
BlackRock 61 (10) N/M 28%
PFPC 28 17 65% 33%
Total business segment
earnings 383 265 45% 26%
Minority interest in income
of BlackRock (19) 3
Other (30) (10)
Total consolidated $334 $258 29% 16%
N/M  not meaningful
 
Income Statement Highlights -Third Quarter 2005
% Change vs.
$ millions, except EPS Third Quarter 2005 Second Quarter 2005 Third Quarter 2004
Net interest income $559 5 % 14 %
Noninterest income 1,113 20 33
Total revenue 1,672 15 26
Provision 16 N/M 23
Noninterest expense 1,156 12 18
Net income 334 18 29
EPSdiluted 1.14 16 25
N/M  not meaningful
 
Balance Sheet Highlights -Third Quarter 2005
% Change vs.
Third Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter
Average balances, $ billions 2005 2005 2004
Total loans $49.5 5% 18%
Securities 20.4 8 33
Total earning assets 75.8 5 23
Total assets 91.1 4 21
Demand deposits $22.1 4 % 9 %
Money market deposits 18.4 6 16
Savings and retail CDs 14.7 5 25
Total deposits 59.6 5 18
Total Borrowed funds 17.2 5 46
At quarter-end
Tangible common capital ratio 4.9%
Loans to deposits 84%
Deposits to total funds 65%
 
One PNC  Making Efficiency Part of Our Culture
Building a More Competitive Company
Expected Outcomes
Eliminate 3,000 positions
Implement 2,400 ideas
Achieve $400 million of total value
Update  As of 9/30/05
1,800 positions eliminated
77% of ideas are complete or in process On track to capture $400 million of value by 2007
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information
We make statements in this presentation, and we may from time to time make other statements, regarding our outlook or expectations for earnings, revenues, expenses and/or other matters regarding or affecting PNC that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "outlook," "estimate," "forecast," "project" and other similar words and expressions.
Forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We do not assume any duty and do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements. Actual results or future events could differ, possibly materially, from those that we anticipated in our forward-looking statements, and future results could differ materially from our historical performance.
In addition to factors that we have disclosed in our 2004 annual report on Form 10-K, our second quarter 2005 report on Form 10-Q, and in other reports that we file with the SEC (accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on or through PNC's corporate website at www.pnc.com), PNC's forward-looking statements are subject to, among others, the following risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results or future events to differ materially from those that we anticipated in our forward-looking statements or from our historical performance: changes in political, economic or industry conditions, the interest rate environment, or the financial and capital markets (including as a result of actions of the Federal Reserve Board affecting interest rates, the money supply, or otherwise reflecting changes in monetary policy), which could affect: (a) credit quality and the extent of our credit losses; (b) the extent of funding of our unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit; (c) our allowances for loan and lease losses and unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit; (d) demand for our credit or fee-based products and services; (e) our net interest income; (f) the value of assets under management and assets serviced, of private equity investments, of other debt and equity investments, of loans held for sale, or of other on-balance sheet or off-balance sheet assets; or (g) the availability and terms of funding necessary to meet our liquidity needs;
the impact on us of legal and regulatory developments, including the following: (a) the resolution of legal proceedings or regulatory and other governmental inquiries; (b) increased litigation risk from recent regulatory and other governmental developments; (c) the results of the regulatory examination process, our failure to satisfy the requirements of agreements with governmental agencies, and regulators' future use of supervisory and enforcement tools; (d) legislative and regulatory reforms, including changes to tax and pension laws; and (e) changes in accounting policies and principles, with the impact of any such developments possibly affecting our ability to operate our businesses or our financial condition or results of operations or our reputation, which in turn could have an impact on such matters as business generation and retention, our ability to attract and retain management, liquidity and funding;
the impact on us of changes in the nature and extent of our competition;
the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of our business initiatives and strategies;
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information (continued) customer acceptance of our products and services, and our customers' borrowing, repayment, investment and deposit practices;
the impact on us of changes in the extent of customer or counterparty delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults, which could affect, among other things, credit and asset quality risk and our provision for credit losses;
the ability to identify and effectively manage risks inherent in our businesses;
how we choose to redeploy available capital, including the extent and timing of any share repurchases and acquisitions or other investments in our businesses;
the impact, extent and timing of technological changes, the adequacy of intellectual property protection, and costs associated with obtaining rights in intellectual property claimed by others;
the timing and pricing of any sales of loans or other financial assets held for sale; our ability to obtain desirable levels of insurance and to successfully submit claims under applicable insurance policies; the relative and absolute investment performance of assets under management; and
the extent of terrorist activities and international hostilities, increases or continuations of which may adversely affect the economy and financial and capital markets generally or us specifically.
Our future results are likely to be affected significantly by the results of the implementation of our One PNC initiative, as discussed in this presentation. Generally, the amounts of our anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements are based to some extent on estimates and assumptions regarding future business performance and expenses, and these estimates and assumptions may prove to be inaccurate in some respects. Some or all of the above factors may cause the anticipated expense savings and revenue enhancements from that initiative not to be achieved in their entirety, not to be accomplished within the expected time frame, or to result in implementation charges beyond those currently contemplated or some other unanticipated adverse impact.
Furthermore, the implementation of cost savings ideas may have unintended impacts on our ability to attract and retain business and customers, while revenue enhancement ideas may not be successful in the marketplace or may result in unintended costs. Assumed attrition required to achieve workforce reductions may not come in the right places or at the right times to meet planned goals.
In addition, we grow our business from time to time by acquiring other financial services companies. Acquisitions in general present us with a number of risks and uncertainties related both to the acquisition transactions themselves and to the integration of the acquired businesses into PNC after closing. In particular, acquisitions may be substantially more expensive to complete (including the integration of the acquired company) and the anticipated benefits, including anticipated cost savings and strategic gains, may be significantly harder or take longer to achieve than expected. As a regulated financial institution, our
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information (continued) pursuit of attractive acquisition opportunities could be negatively impacted due to regulatory delays or other regulatory issues. Regulatory and/or legal issues of an acquired business may cause reputational harm to PNC following the acquisition and integration of the acquired business into ours and may result in additional future costs and expenses arising as a result of those issues. Recent acquisitions, including our acquisition of Riggs National Corporation, continue to present the integration and other post-closing risks and uncertainties described above.
You can find additional information on the foregoing risks and uncertainties and additional factors that could affect the results anticipated in our forward-looking statements or from our historical performance in the reports that we file with the SEC. You can access our SEC reports on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on or through our corporate website at www.pnc.com.
Also, risks and uncertainties that could affect the results anticipated in forward-looking statements or from historical performance relating to our majority-owned subsidiary BlackRock, Inc. are discussed in more detail in BlackRock's filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website and on or through BlackRock's website at www.blackrock.com.
Any annualized, proforma, estimated, third party or consensus numbers in this presentation are used for illustrative or comparative purposes only and may not reflect actual results. Any consensus earnings estimates are calculated based on the earnings projections made by analysts who cover that company. The analysts' opinions, estimates or forecasts (and therefore the consensus earnings estimates) are theirs alone, are not those of PNC or its management, and may not reflect PNC's actual or anticipated results.
9
 
PNC


