FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20050719162128.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 19, 2005, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ("the Corporation") issued a press release regarding the Corporation's earnings and business results for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. The Corporation also provided supplementary financial information on its web site, including financial information disclosed in connection with its earnings press release, and provided electronic slides on its web site used in connection with a related investor conference call scheduled for July 19, 2005. Copies of the press release, supplementary financial information and electronic slides are included in this Report as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3, respectively, and are furnished herewith.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
CONTACTS:
 
MEDIA:
Brian E. Goerke
(412) 762-4550
corporate.communications@pnc.com
 
INVESTORS:
William H. Callihan
(412) 762-8257
investor.relations@pnc.com
 
 
PITTSBURGH, July 19, 2005  The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (NYSE: PNC) today reported second quarter 2005 earnings of $282 million, or $0.98 per diluted share. Earnings a year ago were $304 million, or $1.07 per diluted share, and earnings for the first quarter of 2005 were $354 million, or $1.24 per diluted share. Earnings for the second quarter of 2005 included integration costs and dilution from operations of $18 million after tax, or $.08 per diluted share, related to the acquisition of Riggs National Corporation. For the first six months of 2005, the company earned $636 million, or $2.22 per diluted share, compared with $632 million, or $2.22 per diluted share, for the first six months of 2004.
 
"We produced a strong quarter despite challenging capital markets conditions," said James E. Rohr, chairman and chief executive officer. "Loans, deposits and our customer base continued to grow, and asset quality remained excellent. These strong trends, along with the many early successes of our entry into the Greater Washington, D.C. marketplace, speak to the strength of the PNC franchise."
 
Separately, the company announced the plans of its "One PNC" initiative. As a result of this comprehensive effort, PNC intends to save approximately $300 million in costs and achieve at least $100 million in revenue growth on an annual run-rate basis compared with the fourth quarter of 2004.
 
SECOND QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Return on average common equity was 14.34 percent for the quarter compared with 17.41 percent a year ago and 19.17 percent in the first quarter of 2005.
 
In addition to the Riggs integration, the second quarter of 2005 was impacted by several unusual factors. The company recorded a benefit of $53 million, or $.12 per diluted share, from a loan recovery that resulted from a litigation settlement. This recovery resulted in a credit to the provision for credit losses. Apart from this impact, the provision for credit losses would have been $26 million, an increase of $18 million over the prior quarter primarily resulting from loan growth, including Riggs. The company also recorded a previously announced charge of $.07 per diluted share related to a balance sheet repositioning that resulted in the realization of net securities and other losses of $31 million pre-tax. The quarter's results were also impacted by a decrease in trading revenue of $37 million pre-tax, or $.08 per diluted share, and a decrease in equity management gains of $20 million pre-tax, or $.05 per diluted share, relative to the first quarter of 2005. For further information regarding the financial impact of the Riggs acquisition, please see page 13 of this news release.
 
The Consolidated Financial Highlights accompanying this news release include a reconciliation of total earnings for all business segments to consolidated earnings and a reconciliation of net interest income as reported under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) to taxable-equivalent net interest income.
 
THE ONE PNC INITIATIVE
 
The One PNC initiative, which began in January, is an ongoing, company-wide review of business practices with goals of enhancing the customer experience and improving the company's overall efficiency. As a result of this intensive process, the company plans to reorganize its businesses to reduce bureaucracy and to better serve its customer base.
 
"I am confident that PNC will emerge from this process a much stronger, much more efficient and unified organization," Mr. Rohr said. "While the One PNC initiative required many difficult decisions, it was necessary that we take dramatic steps to reduce expenses and enhance our revenue growth opportunities. We believe these steps will create powerful operating leverage for PNC and help us provide better customer service."
 
The company plans to achieve the $300 million in cost savings through a combination of workforce reduction and other efficiency initiatives. Approximately 3,000 positions will be eliminated, with approximately half of those to be achieved through attrition and elimination of open positions. These changes will result in total implementation costs of approximately $85 million, which will be recorded beginning in the third quarter of 2005 and continuing through 2006.
 
Plans for enhancing revenue identified through the One PNC initiative include a new correspondent banking initiative through which PNC will offer balance sheet management, treasury management and capital markets services for smaller banks in PNC's primary geographic footprint, in addition to many others.
 
Implementation of ideas generated through the One PNC initiative has begun and will continue through the next 24 months, with a majority of the plans to be executed in 2005. The financial benefit of the program is expected to be realized beginning in 2006.
 
New Corporate Structure
 
The company's banking businesses will be reorganized into units comprising consumer and institutional activities in order to increase the span of control and to eliminate layers of management. The consumer business, which will include the consumer and small business banking, wealth management and brokerage businesses, will be led by PNC President Joseph C. Guyaux. The institutional business, which will include middle market and corporate finance, business credit, real estate finance, capital markets and leasing, will be led by Vice Chairman William S. Demchak. Mr. Demchak will continue to oversee the company's asset and liability management and equity management activities. Richard J. Johnson, who is currently the director of finance, will succeed Mr. Demchak as chief financial officer. Messrs. Demchak, Guyaux and Johnson will report to Mr. Rohr. These changes will take effect following the filing of the company's second quarter 2005 Form 10-Q. To read biographies of these PNC leaders, please visit PNC's corporate website at www.pnc.com.
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS
 
Banking Businesses
 
Regional Community Banking
 
Regional Community Banking earned $137 million for the quarter compared with $125 million a year ago and $121 million for the first quarter of 2005. The 10 percent increase over the second quarter of 2004 and 13 percent increase over the first quarter of 2005 were driven by continued customer and balance sheet growth and a sustained focus on expense management.
 
Regional Community Banking results in the second quarter were highlighted by:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wholesale Banking
 
Wholesale Banking earned $144 million in the second quarter, compared with $113 million for the same period a year ago and $110 million for the first quarter of 2005. The higher earnings compared with both prior periods reflected a negative provision for credit losses of $48 million as a result of a $53 million loan recovery, compared with an $8 million provision in the second quarter of 2004 and a negative provision of $4 million in the first quarter of 2005. In addition to the provision benefit, the higher earnings compared with the sequential quarter were driven by increases in taxable-equivalent net interest income and net gains on sales of commercial mortgages, partially offset by lower income from capital markets activity. In the comparison with a year ago, the provision benefit and an increase in taxable-equivalent net interest income were partially offset by lower net gains on institutional loans held for sale.
 
Wholesale Banking results in the second quarter were highlighted by:
 
 
 
 
 
PNC Advisors
 
PNC Advisors earned $25 million for the second quarter of 2005 compared with $27 million a year ago and $28 million for the first quarter of 2005. The lower earnings compared with a year ago reflected higher expenses associated with various one-time items partially offset by higher investment management revenue and net interest income. The lower earnings compared with the sequential quarter resulted from higher expenses associated with various one-time items Average consumer loans outstanding at PNC Advisors increased 18 percent and average deposits increased 6 percent compared with the second quarter of 2004. These increases reflected the success of our local, relationship-based sales initiatives.
.
 
Assets under management at PNC Advisors totaled $50 billion at June 30, 2005 compared with $49 billion at June 30, 2004 and March 31, 2005.
 
Asset Management and Processing Businesses
 
BlackRock
 
BlackRock earned $53 million for the quarter compared with $48 million a year ago and $47 million for the first quarter of 2005. The higher earnings compared with both prior periods were primarily due to higher advisory fees driven by a growing base of assets under management. Total revenue reached a record $271 million.
 
Assets under management at BlackRock increased to a record $414 billion at June 30, 2005 compared with $391 billion at March 31, 2005 primarily driven by new business and market appreciation.
 
BlackRock is approximately 70 percent owned by PNC and is consolidated into PNC's financial statements. Accordingly, approximately 30 percent of BlackRock's earnings are recognized as minority interest expense in the Corporation's consolidated income statement and are reflected on a separate line in the Business Earnings table in the Consolidated Financial Highlights.
 
PFPC
 
PFPC earned $24 million for the quarter compared with $17 million a year ago and $23 million for the first quarter of 2005. The higher earnings compared with the year earlier period were attributable to improved operating leverage and strong performances from custody services, securities lending, managed account services and offshore operations, as well as reduced intercompany debt financing costs. Fund servicing revenue increased 11 percent compared with a year ago. Earnings for the second quarter of 2004 included a $3 million after-tax benefit from the accretion of a discounted client contract liability, which ended in May 2004. Earnings for the first quarter of 2005 reflected a $6 million after-tax gain related to the resolution of a client contract dispute offset by a $5 million after-tax charge related to PFPC's prepayment of intercompany debt.
 
PFPC provided accounting/administration services for $766 billion of net fund assets and provided custody services for $462 billion of fund assets at June 30, 2005. Increases in these statistics over a year ago reflected new business and asset inflows from existing customers. Total fund assets serviced by PFPC were $1.9 trillion at June 30, 2005 compared with $1.6 trillion a year earlier.
 
"Other"
 
The "Other" category includes asset and liability management activities, related net securities gains or losses, equity management activities, differences between business segment performance reporting and financial statement (GAAP) reporting, corporate overhead and intercompany eliminations. A net loss of $85 million was reported in "Other" for the quarter compared with a net loss of $12 million a year ago and earnings of $39 million last quarter. Second quarter 2005 results included the impact of the Riggs integration costs of $19 million after-tax. The higher loss compared with the second quarter of 2004 also reflected $26 million in net securities losses compared with $14 million in net securities gains a year ago, lower equity management gains and lower trading revenue. First quarter 2005 results included a benefit of $45 million arising from the reversal of a deferred tax liability related to the transfer of PNC's ownership in BlackRock from PNC Bank, N.A. to our intermediate bank holding company.
 
CONSOLIDATED REVENUE REVIEW
 
Taxable-equivalent net interest income totaled $541 million for the quarter compared with $485 million a year ago and $512 million in the first quarter of 2005. The increases over both prior periods resulted from higher income associated with increased interest-earning assets partially offset by higher costs of deposits. The net interest margin in the second quarter was 3.00 percent compared with 3.18 percent a year ago and 3.02 percent last quarter. The decrease in net interest margin compared with the second quarter of 2004 resulted from narrower interest rate spreads caused by lower margins earned on loans, higher costs of deposits and higher average trading account balances. These factors were partially offset by a higher contribution from noninterest-bearing funding sources.
 
Noninterest income totaled $925 million for the second quarter compared with $910 million a year ago and $973 million last quarter. The decrease compared with the sequential quarter resulted primarily from lower trading revenues, lower equity management gains and higher net securities losses. These factors were partially offset by higher asset management fees, higher consumer-related fees and higher gains on sales of commercial mortgages. The increase compared with a year ago resulted from higher asset management, fund servicing and consumer-related fees, which were mostly offset by net securities losses compared with net securities gains, lower equity management gains, lower trading revenue and lower net gains on institutional loans held for sale.
 
CONSOLIDATED EXPENSE REVIEW
 
Noninterest expense totaled $1.04 billion for the quarter compared with $.91 billion a year ago and $1.00 billion for the sequential quarter. The increases over both prior periods were driven by the addition of Riggs and SSRM. Apart from the impact of the acquisitions, noninterest expenses were essentially unchanged compared with the sequential quarter due to disciplined expense control.
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET REVIEW
 
Total assets were $90.7 billion at June 30, 2005 compared with $73.1 billion a year ago and $83.4 billion at March 31, 2005. The increases in assets compared with both prior periods reflected increases in loan and securities balances, in part due to the Riggs acquisition.
 
Average total loans of $47.1 billion for the quarter increased $7.1 billion over a year ago and $3.2 billion over the sequential quarter. The increases were driven by continued improvements in market loan demand and targeted sales efforts across our banking businesses, as well as the Riggs acquisition.
 
Average total securities balances for the quarter increased $2.0 billion compared with the previous quarter primarily due to the Riggs acquisition.
 
Average deposits of $56.6 billion for the quarter increased $7.6 billion over a year ago and $3.3 billion over the sequential quarter. The increase compared with the prior quarter was driven by the Riggs acquisition and continued customer growth. The increase compared with a year ago was driven by higher certificates of deposit, money market and demand deposit balances, as well as higher Eurodollar borrowings and the Riggs acquisition.
 
During the second quarter of 2005, the company issued 6.6 million shares for the acquisition of Riggs and repurchased .3 million common shares at an average cost of $53.84 per share. The impact on PNC's capital of the Riggs and SSRM acquisitions has restricted share repurchases and will continue to do so over the next several quarters.
 
ASSET QUALITY REVIEW
 
Overall asset quality remained strong due to our continued focus on lending that meets our risk-reward parameters. The provision for credit losses for the quarter was a credit of $27 million compared with a charge of $8 million a year ago and for the sequential quarter. The decrease in the provision despite growth in loan balances compared with both prior periods was attributable to the $53 million loan recovery. Apart from this impact, the provision increased compared with both prior periods due to increases in loans.
 
Net recoveries were $38 million for the quarter compared with net charge-offs of $26 million a year ago and $12 million last quarter. Excluding the large loan recovery, second quarter 2005 net charge-offs were $15 million.
 
CONFERENCE CALL AND SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
PNC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer James E. Rohr and Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer William S. Demchak will hold a conference call for investors today at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time regarding the topics addressed in this release and the related financial supplement. Investors should call five to 10 minutes before the start of the conference call at 800-990-2718 (domestic) or 706-643-0187 (international). A taped replay of the call will be available for one week at 800-642-1687 (domestic) and 706-645-9291 (international); enter conference ID 7411123. A slide presentation to accompany the conference call remarks may be found on PNC's website at www.pnc.com under "For Investors."
 
In addition, internet access to the call (listen-only) and to PNC's second quarter 2005 earnings release and supplementary financial information will be available on PNC's website at www.pnc.com under "For Investors." A replay of the webcast will be available on PNC's website for 30 days.
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
 
We make statements in this news release and in the conference call regarding this news release, and we may from time to time make other statements, regarding our outlook or expectations for earnings, revenues, expenses and/or other matters regarding or affecting PNC that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "outlook," "estimate," "forecast," "project" and other similar words and expressions.
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We do not assume any duty and do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements. Actual results or future events could differ, possibly materially, from those that we anticipated in our forward-looking statements, and future results could differ materially from our historical performance.
 
In addition to factors that we have disclosed in our 2004 annual report on Form 10-K, our first quarter 2005 report on Form 10-Q, and in other reports that we file with the SEC (accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on or through PNC's corporate website at www.pnc.com) and those that we may discuss elsewhere in this news release, PNC's forward-looking statements are subject to, among others, the following risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results or future events to differ materially from those that we anticipated in our forward-looking statements or from our historical performance:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our future results are likely to be affected significantly by the results of the implementation of our One PNC initiative, as discussed in this news release
.
Generally, the amounts of our anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements are based to some extent on estimates and assumptions regarding future business performance and expenses, and these estimates and assumptions may prove to be inaccurate in some respects. Some or all of the above factors may cause the anticipated expense savings and revenue enhancements from that initiative not to be achieved in their entirety, not to be accomplished within the expected time frame, or to result in implementation charges beyond those currently contemplated or some other unanticipated adverse impact. Furthermore, the implementation of cost savings ideas may have unintended impacts on our ability to attract and retain business and customers, while revenue enhancement ideas may not be successful in the marketplace or may result in unintended costs. Assumed attrition required to achieve workforce reductions may not come in the right places or at the right times to meet planned goals.
 
In addition, we grow our business from time to time by acquiring other financial services companies. Acquisitions in general present us with a number of risks and uncertainties related both to the acquisition transactions themselves and to the integration of the acquired businesses into PNC after closing. In particular, acquisitions may be substantially more expensive to complete (including the integration of the acquired company) and the anticipated benefits, including anticipated cost savings and strategic gains, may be significantly harder or take longer to achieve than expected. As a regulated financial institution, our pursuit of attractive acquisition opportunities could be negatively impacted due to regulatory delays or other regulatory issues. Regulatory and/or legal issues of an acquired business may cause reputational harm to PNC following the acquisition and integration of the acquired business into ours and may result in additional future costs and expenses arising as a result of those issues. Recent acquisitions, including our acquisition of Riggs National Corporation, continue to present the integration and other post-closing risks and uncertainties described above.
 
You can find additional information on the foregoing risks and uncertainties and additional factors that could affect the results anticipated in our forward-looking statements or from our historical performance in the reports that we file with the SEC. You can access our SEC reports on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on or through our corporate website at www.pnc.com.
 
Also, risks and uncertainties that could affect the results anticipated in forward-looking statements or from historical performance relating to our majority-owned subsidiary BlackRock, Inc. are discussed in more detail in BlackRock's filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website and on or through BlackRock's website at www.blackrock.com.
 
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. is one of the nation's largest diversified financial services organizations, providing consumer and business banking; specialized services for corporations and government entities, including corporate banking, real estate finance and asset-based lending; wealth management; asset management and global fund services.
 
 
Consolidated Financial Highlights
 
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.
 
 
Certain prior period amounts included in these Consolidated Financial Highlights have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
 
 
The following is a reconciliation of net interest income as reported in the Consolidated Income Statement to net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis (in millions):
 
 
Consolidated Financial Highlights
 
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.
 
 
 
Consolidated Financial Highlights
 
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.
 
Impact of Riggs National Corporation (Riggs) Acquisition on Consolidated Results
 
In millions
Unaudited
 
Income Statement Data
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained in this Financial Supplement is preliminary, unaudited and based on data available at July 19, 2005. We have reclassified certain prior period amounts included in this Financial Supplement to be consistent with the current period presentation. This information speaks only as of the particular date or dates included in the schedules. We do not undertake any obligation to, and disclaim any duty to, correct or update any of the information provided in this Financial Supplement. Our future financial performance is subject to risks and uncertainties as described in our SEC filings.
 
The average full-time equivalent employee (FTE) statistics disclosed in this Financial Supplement for each business segment reflect staff directly employed by the respective business segment and exclude corporate and shared services employees.
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited)
Consolidated Income Statement
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited)
Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited) (a)
Results of Businesses - Summary and Reconciliation to Total Consolidated Results
Three months ended  dollars in millions
 
Earnings
 
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited) (a)
Regional Community Banking
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited) (a)
Wholesale Banking
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited) (a)
PNC Advisors
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited) (a)
BlackRock
 
 
 
We believe that operating margin, as adjusted, is a more relevant indicator of management's ability to effectively employ BlackRock's resources. The portion of the LTIP charges associated with awards to be met with the contribution of shares of BlackRock stock currently held by PNC has been excluded from operating income because, exclusive of impact related to LTIP participants' option to put awarded shares to BlackRock, this non-cash charge will not impact BlackRock's book value. Appreciation on Rabbi trust assets related to BlackRock's deferred compensation plans has been excluded because investment performance of these assets has a nominal impact on net income. Reimbursable property management compensation represents compensation and benefits paid to certain BlackRock Realty Advisors, Inc. ("Realty") personnel. These employees are retained on Realty's payroll when properties are acquired by Realty's clients. The related compensation and benefits are fully reimbursed by Realty's clients and have been excluded from operating margin, as adjusted, because they bear no economic cost to BlackRock. We have excluded fund administration and servicing costs from the operating margin calculation because these costs are a fixed, asset-based expense which can fluctuate based on the discretion of a third party. We have excluded the impact on operating margin of the incentive compensation recognized during the second quarter of 2004 related to the gain on the sale of BlackRock's interest in Trepp LLC as such expense is not indicative of the ongoing level of incentive compensation for BlackRock.
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited) (a)
PFPC
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited)
Details of Net Interest Income, Net Interest Margin, and Trading Revenue
Taxable-equivalent basis
 
Net Interest Income
 
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited)
Details of Noninterest Income, Noninterest Expense, and Effective Tax Rate
In millions
 
Noninterest Income
 
 
The first quarter 2005 effective tax rate reflects the $45 million impact of the reversal of certain deferred tax liabilities in connection with the transfer of our ownership interest in BlackRock from PNC Bank, National Association to our intermediate bank holding company, PNC Bancorp, Inc. See our first quarter 2005 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information.
 
The fourth quarter 2004 effective tax rate reflects a $10 million income tax benefit resulting from the release of reserves allocated to BlackRock's New York City tax liability due to the receipt of a favorable preliminary audit finding for the tax years 1998 through 2000.
 
The third quarter 2004 effective tax rate reflects a $14 million reduction in income tax expense following our determination that we no longer require an income tax reserve related to bank-owned life insurance. See our third quarter 2004 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information.
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited)
Efficiency Ratios
 
GAAP and Bank Efficiency Ratios
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP amounts with amounts used in the calculation of the bank efficiency ratio:
 
 
PNC Advisors Efficiency Ratios
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP amounts with amounts used in the calculation of the adjusted PNC Advisors efficiency ratio:
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited)
Average Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited) (Continued)
Average Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited)
Details of Loans and Lending Statistics
 
Loans
 
 
 
Consumer Loan Statistic (c)
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
Allowances for Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit and
(Unaudited)
Net Unfunded Commitments
 
Change in Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited)
Details of Nonperforming Assets
 
Nonperforming Assets by Type
 
 
Change in Nonperforming Assets
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
(Unaudited) (Continued)
Details of Nonperforming Assets
 
Nonperforming Assets by Business
 
 
Largest Nonperforming Assets at June 30, 2005 - in millions (b)
 
 
Glossary of Terms
 
- Net domestic and foreign fund investment assets for which we provide accounting and administration services. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Accounting/administration net fund assets
 
- Primarily comprised of total average quarterly (or annual) assets plus (less) unrealized losses (gains) on available-for-sale debt securities, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets.
Adjusted average total assets
 
- Adjusted to reflect a full year of activity.
Annualized
 
- Assets over which we have sole or shared investment authority for our customers/clients. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Assets under management
 
- Represents the amount of resources that a business segment should hold to guard against potentially large losses that could cause insolvency. It is based on a measurement of economic risk, as opposed to risk as defined by regulatory bodies or generally accepted accounting principles. The economic capital measurement process involves converting a risk distribution to the capital that is required to support the risk, consistent with an institution's target credit rating. As such, economic risk serves as a "common currency" of risk that allows an institution to compare different risks on a similar basis.
Capital
 
- Process of removing a loan or portion of a loan from a bank's balance sheet because the loan is considered uncollectible. A charge-off also is recorded when a loan is transferred to held for sale and the loan's market value is less than its carrying amount.
Charge-off
 
- Common shareholders' equity divided by total assets. Common shareholders' equity equals total shareholders' equity less preferred stock and the portion of capital surplus and retained interest related to the preferred stock.
Common shareholders' equity to total assets
 
- All investment assets held on behalf of clients under safekeeping arrangements. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Investment assets held in custody at other institutions on our behalf are included in the appropriate asset categories on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as if physically held by us.
Custody assets
 
- Financial contracts whose value is derived from publicly traded securities, interest rates, currency exchange rates or market indices. Derivatives cover a wide assortment of financial contracts, including forward contracts, futures, options and swaps.
Derivatives
 
- Assets that generate income, which include: federal funds sold; resale agreements; other short-term investments, including trading securities; loans held for sale; loans, net of unearned income; securities; and certain other assets.
Earning assets
 
- The present value of the expected cash flows of our existing assets less the present value of the expected cash flows of our existing liabilities, plus the present value of the net cash flows of our existing off-balance sheet positions.
Economic value of equity ("EVE")
 
- A measurement, expressed in years, that, when multiplied by a change in interest rates, would approximate the percentage change in value of on- and off-balance sheet positions.
Effective duration
 
- Noninterest expense divided by total revenue.
Efficiency
 
- A management accounting methodology designed to recognize the net interest income effects of sources and uses of funds provided by the assets and liabilities of business segments. These balances are assigned funding rates that represent the interest cost for us to raise/invest funds with similar maturity and repricing structures, using the least-cost funding sources available.
Funds transfer pricing
 
- Tier 1 risk-based capital divided by adjusted average total assets.
Leverage ratio
 
- Annualized taxable-equivalent net interest income divided by average earning assets.
Net interest margin
 
- Assets we hold for our customers/clients in a non-discretionary, custodial capacity. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Nondiscretionary assets under administration
 
 Noninterest income divided by total revenue.
Noninterest income to total revenue
 
- Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans, troubled debt restructured loans, nonaccrual loans held for sale, foreclosed assets and other assets. Interest income does not accrue on assets classified as nonperforming.
Nonperforming assets
 
- Nonperforming loans include loans to commercial, lease financing, consumer, commercial real estate and residential mortgage customers as well as troubled debt restructured loans. Nonperforming loans do not include nonaccrual loans held for sale or foreclosed and other assets. Interest income does not accrue on loans classified as nonperforming.
Nonperforming loans
 
- Cash proceeds received on a loan that had previously been charged off. The amount received is credited to the allowance for loan and lease losses.
Recovery
 
- Annualized net income divided by average capital.
Return on capital
 
- Annualized net income divided by average assets.
Return on average assets
 
- Annualized net income divided by average common shareholders' equity.
Return on average common equity
 
- Primarily computed by the assignment of specific risk-weights (as defined by The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) to assets and off-balance sheet instruments.
Risk-weighted assets
 
- The process of legally transforming financial assets into securities.
Securitization
 
- Common shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets (excluding mortgage servicing rights) divided by assets less goodwill and other intangible assets (excluding mortgage servicing rights).
Tangible common capital ratio
 
- The interest income earned on certain earning assets is completely or partially exempt from federal income tax. As such, these tax-exempt instruments typically yield lower returns than a taxable investment. To provide more meaningful comparisons of yields and margins for all earning assets, the interest income earned on tax-exempt assets is increased to make it fully equivalent to interest income on other taxable investments.
Taxable-equivalent interest
 
- Tier 1 capital equals: total shareholders' equity, plus trust preferred capital securities, plus certain minority interests that are held by others; less goodwill and certain intangible assets, less equity investments in nonfinancial companies and less net unrealized holding losses on available-for-sale equity securities. Net unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale equity securities, net unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities and net unrealized holding gains (losses) on cash flow hedge derivatives are excluded from total shareholders' equity for tier 1 capital purposes.
Tier 1 risk-based capital
 
- Tier 1 risk-based capital divided by period-end risk-weighted assets.
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
 
- Total domestic and foreign fund investment assets for which we provide related processing services. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Total fund assets serviced
 
- The sum of total transaction deposits, savings accounts, retail certificates of deposit, other time deposits and time deposits in foreign offices.
Total deposits
 
 The sum of total noninterest income and net interest income.
Total revenue
 
- Tier 1 risk-based capital plus qualifying senior and subordinated debt, other minority interest not qualified as tier 1, and the allowance for loan and lease losses, subject to certain limitations.
Total risk-based capital
 
- Total risk-based capital divided by period-end risk-weighted assets.
Total risk-based capital ratio
 
- The sum of personal and other money market and interest-bearing demand deposits and demand and other noninterest-bearing deposits.
Transaction deposits
 
- A graph showing the relationship between the yields on financial instruments or market indices of the same credit quality with different maturities. For example, a "normal" or "positive" yield curve exists when long-term bonds have higher yields than short-term bonds. A "flat" yield curve exists when yields are the same for short-term and long-term bonds. A "steep" yield curve exists when yields on long-term bonds are significantly higher than on short-term bonds.
Yield curve (shape of the yield curve, flat yield curve)
 
Business Segment Products and Services
 
provides deposit, lending, and cash management services, and investment services through PNC Investments, LLC, to approximately 2.3 million consumer and small business customers within PNC's primary geographic footprint.
Regional Community Banking
 
provides lending, treasury management, and capital markets-related products and services and commercial loan servicing to mid-sized corporations, government entities and selectively to large corporations. Lending products include secured and unsecured loans, letters of credit and equipment leases. Treasury management services include cash and investment management, receivables management, disbursement services, funds transfer services, information reporting, and global trade services. Capital markets-related products include foreign exchange, derivatives, loan syndications and securities underwriting and distribution. Wholesale Banking provides products and services generally within PNC's primary geographic markets and provides certain products and services nationally.
Wholesale Banking
 
provides a broad range of tailored investment, trust and private banking products and services to affluent individuals and families, including services to the ultra-affluent through its Hawthorn unit and full-service brokerage through J.J.B. Hilliard, W.L. Lyons, Inc. PNC Advisors also serves as investment manager and trustee for employee benefit plans and charitable and endowment assets and provides nondiscretionary defined contribution plan services and investment options through its Vested Interest product. PNC Advisors provides services to individuals and corporations primarily within PNC's primary geographic markets.
PNC Advisors
 
is one of the largest publicly traded investment management firms in the United States. BlackRock manages assets on behalf of institutional and individual investors worldwide through a variety of equity, fixed income, cash management and alternative investment products. Mutual funds include the flagship fund families, and (formerly BlackRock Provident Institutional Funds). In addition, BlackRock provides risk management, investment system outsourcing and financial advisory services to a growing number of institutional investors.
BlackRock
BlackRock Funds
BlackRock Liquidity Funds
 
is among the largest providers of mutual fund transfer agency and accounting and administration services in the United States, offering a wide range of fund processing services to the investment management industry and providing processing solutions to the international marketplace through its Ireland and Luxembourg operations.
PFPC
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.
Second Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call
July 19, 2005
 
Second Quarter 2005 Highlights
Earned $282 million or $0.98 per diluted share
Strong client activity  business segment earnings grew 16% compared with 2Q04
Market sensitive results adversely impacted by environment
Asset quality remained very strong
Riggs successfully converted in 48 hoursexpense savings, loan, deposit and client growth met or exceeded ambitious expectations
One PNC evaluation completed and execution phase has commenced
2
 
Income Statement Highlights -Second Quarter 2005
% Change vs.
Second Quarter First Quarter Second Quarter
$millions, except EPS 2005 2005 2004
Net interest income $534 6 % 11 %
Noninterest income 925 (5) 2
Provision (27) N/M N/M
Noninterest expense 1,036 4 14
Net income 282 (20) (7)
EPS (diluted) 0.98 (21) (8)
N/M  not meaningful
3
 
Balance Sheet Highlights -Second Quarter 2005
% Change vs.
Second Quarter First Quarter Second Quarter
Average balances, $billions 2005 2005 2004
Commercial loans $19.3 7% 17%
Consumer loans 16.2 4 16
Total loans 47.1 7 18
Securities 18.9 12 20
Total earning assets 71.9 6 18
Total assets 87.6 5 19
Demand deposits $21.2 4% 8%
Money market deposits 17.5 6 9
Savings and retail CDs 14.0 7 25
Total deposits 56.6 6 16
Borrowed funds 16.3 9 30
At quarter-end
Tangible common capital ratio 5.1%
Loans to deposits 84%
Deposits to total funds 65%
4
 
Business Results are Gaining Momentum
Three Months Ended June 30
Earnings (Loss) Return on
$millions
Capital/Equity
2005 2004 Growth 2005
PNC banking businesses $306 $265 15% 28%
BlackRock 53 48 10% 25%
PFPC 24 17 41% 33%
Total business segment
earnings 383 330 16% 27%
Minority interest in income
of BlackRock (16) (14)
Other (85) (12)
Total consolidated $282 $304 (7)% 14%
5
 
The One PNC Initiative
Goals
Move closer to customer Become more efficient Target resources to more value-added activities
Expected Results
Simplified business structure Eliminate 3,000 positions or 13% of total positions Achieve cost savings of approximately $300 million Generate approximately $100 million in revenues through pricing enhancements and growth initiatives Severance and related charges of $85 million
6
 
One PNC  Financial Impact
$millions
Total 2005 2006 2007
Value of cost reduction ideas
Banking businesses
PFPC $155
20 $30 $225 $300
Shared services and other 125
Total cost reductions 300 30 225 300
Revenue initiatives 100 5 40 100
Total $400 $35 $265 $400
One-time charges $85 $65 $20
53% personnel related
7
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information
We make statements in this presentation, and we may from time to time make other statements, regarding our outlook or expectations for earnings, revenues, expenses and/or other matters regarding or affecting PNC that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "outlook," "estimate," "forecast," "project" and other similar words and expressions.
Forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We do not assume any duty and do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements. Actual results or future events could differ, possibly materially, from those that we anticipated in our forward-looking statements, and future results could differ materially from our historical performance.
In addition to factors that we have disclosed in our 2004 annual report on Form 10-K, our first quarter 2005 report on Form 10-Q, and in other reports that we file with the SEC (accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on or through PNC's corporate website at www.pnc.com), PNC's forward-looking statements are subject to, among others, the following risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results or future events to differ materially from those that we anticipated in our forward-looking statements or from our historical performance: changes in political, economic or industry conditions, the interest rate environment, or the financial and capital markets (including as a result of actions of the Federal Reserve Board affecting interest rates, the money supply, or otherwise reflecting changes in monetary policy), which could affect: (a) credit quality and the extent of our credit losses; (b) the extent of funding of our unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit; (c) our allowances for loan and lease losses and unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit; (d) demand for our credit or fee-based products and services; (e) our net interest income; (f) the value of assets under management and assets serviced, of private equity investments, of other debt and equity investments, of loans held for sale, or of other on-balance sheet or off-balance sheet assets; or (g) the availability and terms of funding necessary to meet our liquidity needs;
the impact on us of legal and regulatory developments, including the following: (a) the resolution of legal proceedings or regulatory and other governmental inquiries; (b) increased litigation risk from recent regulatory and other governmental developments; (c) the results of the regulatory examination process, our failure to satisfy the requirements of agreements with governmental agencies, and regulators' future use of supervisory and enforcement tools; (d) legislative and regulatory reforms, including changes to tax laws; and (e) changes in accounting policies and principles, with the impact of any such developments possibly affecting our ability to operate our businesses or our financial condition or results of operations or our reputation, which in turn could have an impact on such matters as business generation and retention, our ability to attract and retain management, liquidity and funding;
the impact on us of changes in the nature and extent of our competition;
the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of our business initiatives and strategies;
8
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information (continued) customer acceptance of our products and services, and our customers' borrowing, repayment, investment and deposit practices;
the impact on us of changes in the extent of customer or counterparty delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults, which could affect, among other things, credit and asset quality risk and our provision for credit losses;
the ability to identify and effectively manage risks inherent in our businesses;
how we choose to redeploy available capital, including the extent and timing of any share repurchases and acquisitions or other investments in our businesses;
the impact, extent and timing of technological changes, the adequacy of intellectual property protection, and costs associated with obtaining rights in intellectual property claimed by others;
the timing and pricing of any sales of loans or other financial assets held for sale; our ability to obtain desirable levels of insurance and to successfully submit claims under applicable insurance policies; the relative and absolute investment performance of assets under management; and
the extent of terrorist activities and international hostilities, increases or continuations of which may adversely affect the economy and financial and capital markets generally or us specifically.
Our future results are likely to be affected significantly by the results of the implementation of our One PNC initiative, as discussed in this presentation. Generally, the amounts of our anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements are based to some extent on estimates and assumptions regarding future business performance and expenses, and these estimates and assumptions may prove to be inaccurate in some respects. Some or all of the above factors may cause the anticipated expense savings and revenue enhancements from that initiative not to be achieved in their entirety, not to be accomplished within the expected time frame, or to result in implementation charges beyond those currently contemplated or some other unanticipated adverse impact.
Furthermore, the implementation of cost savings ideas may have unintended impacts on our ability to attract and retain business and customers, while revenue enhancement ideas may not be successful in the marketplace or may result in unintended costs. Assumed attrition required to achieve workforce reductions may not come in the right places or at the right times to meet planned goals.
In addition, we grow our business from time to time by acquiring other financial services companies. Acquisitions in general present us with a number of risks and uncertainties related both to the acquisition transactions themselves and to the integration of the acquired businesses into PNC after closing. In particular, acquisitions may be substantially more expensive to complete (including the integration of the acquired company) and the anticipated benefits, including anticipated cost savings and strategic gains, may be significantly harder or take longer to achieve than expected. As a regulated financial institution, our
9
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information (continued) pursuit of attractive acquisition opportunities could be negatively impacted due to regulatory delays or other regulatory issues. Regulatory and/or legal issues of an acquired business may cause reputational harm to PNC following the acquisition and integration of the acquired business into ours and may result in additional future costs and expenses arising as a result of those issues. Recent acquisitions, including our acquisition of Riggs National Corporation, continue to present the integration and other post-closing risks and uncertainties described above.
You can find additional information on the foregoing risks and uncertainties and additional factors that could affect the results anticipated in our forward-looking statements or from our historical performance in the reports that we file with the SEC. You can access our SEC reports on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on or through our corporate website at www.pnc.com.
Also, risks and uncertainties that could affect the results anticipated in forward-looking statements or from historical performance relating to our majority-owned subsidiary BlackRock, Inc. are discussed in more detail in BlackRock's filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website and on or through BlackRock's website at www.blackrock.com.
Any annualized, proforma, estimated, third party or consensus numbers in this presentation are used for illustrative or comparative purposes only and may not reflect actual results. Any consensus earnings estimates are calculated based on the earnings projections made by analysts who cover that company. The analysts' opinions, estimates or forecasts (and therefore the consensus earnings estimates) are theirs alone, are not those of PNC or its management, and may not reflect PNC's actual or anticipated results.
10


