FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20060303083255.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Senior executives of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. are scheduled to meet with securities analysts on March 3, 2006. At this meeting, they anticipate discussing our goal to drive positive operating leverage in 2006. In connection with that discussion, our executives expect to confirm prior public statements to the effect that
 
 
 
The expectations reflected in these statements do not give any effect to the impact to PNC from BlackRock's pending acquisition of Merrill Lynch's Investment Management businesses.
C S R F-L I
AUTIONARY
TATEMENT
EGARDING
ORWARD
OOKING
NFORMATION
We make statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K ("Report"), and we may from time to time make other statements, regarding our outlook or expectations for earnings, revenues, expenses and/or other matters regarding or affecting PNC that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "outlook," "estimate," "forecast," "project" and other similar words and expressions.
Forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We do not assume any duty and do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements. Actual results or future events could differ, possibly materially, from those that we anticipated in our forward-looking statements, and future results could differ materially from our historical performance.
In addition to factors that we have disclosed in our SEC reports and those that we discuss elsewhere in this Report, our forward-looking statements are subject to, among others, the following risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results or future events to differ materially from those that we anticipated in our forward-looking statements or from our historical performance:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our future results are likely to be affected significantly by the results of the implementation of our One PNC initiative. Generally, the amounts of our anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements are based to some extent on estimates and assumptions regarding future business performance and expenses, and these estimates and assumptions may prove to be inaccurate in some respects. Some or all of the above factors may cause the anticipated expense savings and revenue enhancements from that initiative not to be achieved in their entirety, not to be accomplished within the expected time frame, or to result in implementation charges beyond those currently contemplated or some other unanticipated adverse impact. Furthermore, the implementation of cost savings ideas may have unintended impacts on our ability to attract and retain business and customers, while revenue enhancement ideas may not be successful in the marketplace or may result in unintended costs. Assumed attrition required to achieve workforce reductions may not come in the right places or at the right times to meet planned goals.
In addition, we grow our business from time to time by acquiring other financial services companies. Acquisitions in general present us with a number of risks and uncertainties related both to the acquisition transactions themselves and to the integration of the acquired businesses into PNC after closing. In particular, acquisitions may be substantially more expensive to complete (including the integration of the acquired company) and the anticipated benefits, including anticipated cost savings and strategic gains, may be significantly harder or take longer to achieve than expected. As a regulated financial institution, our pursuit of attractive acquisition opportunities could be negatively impacted due to regulatory delays or other regulatory issues. Regulatory and/or legal issues of an acquired business may cause reputational harm to PNC following the acquisition and integration of the acquired business into ours and may result in additional future costs and expenses arising as a result of those issues. Recent acquisitions, including our acquisition of Riggs National Corporation, continue to present the post-closing risks and uncertainties described above.
Also, risks and uncertainties that could affect the results anticipated in forward-looking statements or from historical performance relating to our majority-owned subsidiary BlackRock, Inc. are discussed in more detail in BlackRock's filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website and on or through BlackRock's website at .
www.blackrock.com
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


