FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20061205134007.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
As previously reported, on October 8, 2006 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ("PNC" or the "Corporation") entered into a definitive agreement with Mercantile Bankshares Corporation ("Mercantile") for the Corporation to acquire Mercantile for 52.5 million shares of PNC common stock and $2.13 billion in cash. Based on PNC's common stock price on October 6, 2006, the consideration represents $6.0 billion in stock and cash or $47.24 per Mercantile share. The transaction is expected to close during the first quarter of 2007 and is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval and the approval of Mercantile's shareholders.
Unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements for the Corporation and Mercantile are attached herewith as Exhibit 99.1. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements combine the historical consolidated financial statements of PNC and its subsidiaries and of Mercantile and its subsidiaries as an acquisition by PNC of Mercantile assuming that the merger is accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and giving effect to the related pro forma adjustments described in the accompanying notes. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet gives effect to the merger as if it had occurred on September 30, 2006. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and the year ended December 31, 2005 give effect to the merger as if the merger had become effective at the beginning of each period presented.
The pro forma data in the Exhibit represents a current estimate based on available information of the combined company's results of operations. The pro forma financial adjustments record the assets and liabilities of Mercantile at their estimated fair values and are subject to adjustment as additional information becomes available and as additional analyses are performed. The information in the Exhibit is based on, and should be read together with, the historical financial information that PNC and Mercantile have presented in their prior filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We anticipate that the merger will provide the combined company with financial benefits that include reduced operating expenses and revenue enhancement opportunities. The pro forma information, while helpful in illustrating the financial characteristics of the combined company under one set of assumptions, does not reflect the impact of possible revenue enhancements, expense efficiencies, asset dispositions and share repurchases, among other factors, that may result as a consequence of the merger and, accordingly, does not attempt to predict or suggest future results. It also does not necessarily reflect what the historical results of the combined company would have been had PNC and Mercantile been combined during these periods.
We previously furnished this information, and the data on the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, on a Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 27, 2006 under Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements combine the historical consolidated financial statements of PNC and its subsidiaries and of Mercantile and its subsidiaries, as an acquisition by PNC of Mercantile using the purchase method of accounting and giving effect to the related pro forma adjustments described in the accompanying notes. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet gives effect to the merger as if it had occurred on September 30, 2006. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and the year ended December 31, 2005, give effect to the merger as if the merger had become effective at the beginning of each period presented.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements included herein are presented for informational purposes only. This information does not reflect the benefits of the expected cost savings or opportunities to earn additional revenue and includes various estimates and may not necessarily be indicative of the financial position or results of operations that would have occurred if the merger had been consummated on the date or at the beginning of the period indicated or which may be attained in the future. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements and accompanying notes should be read in conjunction with and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the historical consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto of PNC and its subsidiaries and of Mercantile and its subsidiaries, such information and notes thereto are incorporated by reference herein.
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
Pro Forma Condensed Combined Income Statement
Year ended December 31, 2005
 
 
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
Pro Forma Condensed Combined Income Statement
Nine months ended September 30, 2006
 
 
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet
At September 30, 2006
 
 
 
Note 1  Pro Forma Financial Information:
The merger will be accounted for as an acquisition by PNC of Mercantile using the purchase method of accounting. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities of Mercantile will be recorded at their respective fair values on the date the merger is completed. The share value of PNC common stock issued to effect the merger has been estimated at $71.72 per share. This amount was determined by averaging the price of shares of PNC common stock for a period beginning two trading days before the announcement of the merger and ending two trading days after the merger agreement (which includes the day of announcement).
The pro forma financial information includes estimated adjustments to record certain assets and liabilities of Mercantile at their respective fair values. The pro forma adjustments included herein are subject to change depending on changes in interest rates and the components of assets and liabilities and as additional information becomes available and additional analyses are performed. Certain other assets and liabilities of Mercantile, including fixed assets and debt, will also be subject to adjustment at their respective fair values. Pending more detailed analyses, no pro forma adjustments are included herein for these assets and liabilities.
The final allocation of the purchase price will be determined after the merger is completed and additional analyses are performed to determine the fair values of Mercantile's tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities as of the date the merger is completed. Changes in the fair value of the net assets of Mercantile as of the date of the merger, further refinement of transaction costs, and changes in Mercantile's stockholders' equity, including net income and dividends, between September 30, 2006 and the date of the merger will change the amount of goodwill recorded. The final adjustments may be materially different from the unaudited pro forma adjustments presented herein.
The pro forma financial information for the merger is included only as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and for the year ended December 31, 2005. The unaudited pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations of the combined financial position that would have resulted had the merger been completed at the beginning of the applicable periods presented, nor is it necessarily indicative of the results of operations in future periods or the future financial position of the combined company.
Note 2  Purchase Price:
The pro forma financial information reflects the right of each Mercantile shareholder to receive (A) a number of shares of PNC common stock equal to the product of .4184 times the number of shares of Mercantile stock held on the record date, and (B) an amount of cash equal to the product of $16.45 times the number of Mercantile shares held on the record date. Each option outstanding will be exchanged for cash based on the total consideration ($16.45 in cash plus .4184 multiplied by PNC stock price) less the exercise price per share of option. The cash payment for the options is considered part of the purchase price. Based on these assumptions at September 30, 2006, the stock component will include the issuance of 52.5 million PNC shares and the cash component of the merger consideration is approximately $2.1 billion in the aggregate for stock and options.
The table below provides the calculation of the number of shares issued:
 
The pro forma financial information includes adjustments to stockholders' equity to reflect the addition of 52.5 million shares of PNC stock with an aggregate value of $3.8 billion. The pro forma balance sheet adjustments include an increase to borrowings of $2.1 billion related to funding the cash component to be paid to each Mercantile shareholder and option holder.
The following table provides a summary of pro forma adjustments to stockholders' equity:
 
The adjustments reflected in the pro forma condensed combined income statements are presented in the table below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 4  Preliminary Plans of Consolidation:
In connection with the merger, PNC and Mercantile have begun to develop the preliminary plans to consolidate the operations of PNC and Mercantile. Over the next several months, the specific details of these plans will be refined. PNC and Mercantile are currently in the process of assessing the two companies' personnel, benefit plans, premises, equipment, computer systems and service contracts to determine where they may take advantage of redundancies or where it will be beneficial or necessary to convert to one system. Certain decisions arising from these assessments may involve involuntary termination of Mercantile's employees, vacating Mercantile's leased premises, canceling contracts between Mercantile and certain service providers and selling or otherwise disposing of certain premises, furniture and equipment owned by Mercantile. The pretax costs associated with such decisions, which are currently estimated at $156 million, will be recorded as purchase accounting adjustments, which have the effect of increasing the amount of the purchase price allocable to goodwill. It is expected that all such costs will be identified and recorded within one year of completion of the merger and all such actions required to effect these decisions would be taken within one year after finalization of these plans. The pro forma condensed combined balance sheet does not include a preliminary estimate of such costs since these costs are not indicative of what the historical results of PNC would have been had PNC and Mercantile actually been combined during the periods presented.
PNC also expects to incur merger-related expenses including system conversion costs, employee retention arrangements and costs of incremental communications to customers and others. It is expected that the exit and disposal costs along with the merger-related costs will be incurred over a one-year period after completion of the merger. Preliminarily, we estimate these restructuring and merger-related pretax expenses will approximate $86 million. The estimate is not included in the pro forma income statements since these costs will be recorded in the combined results of operations as they are incurred after completion of the merger and are not indicative of what the historical results of PNC would have been had PNC and Mercantile actually been combined during the periods presented.
Additionally, PNC expects to realize approximately $108 million in pretax cost savings following the merger, which PNC expects to be phased in over a two-year period. These cost savings are not reflected in the pro forma financial information. PNC also expects to realize $27 million in pretax synergies and cost savings at PNC as a result of balance sheet repositioning and branch cost avoidance in the future.


