FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20061031103245.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 31, 2006, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ("the Corporation") issued a press release and held a conference call for investors regarding the Corporation's earnings and business results for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2006. The Corporation also provided supplementary financial information on its web site, including financial information disclosed in connection with its press release, and provided electronic presentation slides on its web site used in connection with the related investor conference call. Copies of the supplementary financial information and electronic presentation slides are included in this Report as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are furnished herewith.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits. The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index accompanying this Form 8-K are furnished herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
The information contained in this Financial Supplement is preliminary, unaudited and based on data available at October 31, 2006. We have reclassified certain prior period amounts included in this Financial Supplement to be consistent with the current period presentation. This information speaks only as of the particular date or dates included in the schedules. We do not undertake any obligation to, and disclaim any duty to, correct or update any of the information provided in this Financial Supplement. Our future financial performance is subject to risks and uncertainties as described in our SEC filings.
BlackRock/MLIM Transaction
As further described in our Current Reports on Form 8-K dated February 15, 2006 and September 29, 2006, BlackRock, Inc. ("BlackRock"), formerly a majority-owned subsidiary of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc., and Merrill Lynch entered into a definitive agreement pursuant to which Merrill Lynch agreed to contribute its investment management business ("MLIM") to BlackRock in exchange for 65 million shares of newly issued BlackRock common and preferred stock.
This transaction closed on September 29, 2006. For all quarterly periods presented in this Financial Supplement, our Consolidated Income Statement reflects our former majority ownership interest in BlackRock. However, our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2006 reflects the deconsolidation of BlackRock's balance sheet amounts and recognizes our 34% ownership interest in BlackRock as of that date as an investment to be accounted for under the equity method on a prospective basis.
 
As disclosed in our 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K, in October 2005 Market Street Funding ("Market Street"), a multi-seller asset-backed commercial paper conduit owned by an independent third party and administered by PNC Bank, N.A., was restructured. As a result, Market Street was deconsolidated from our Consolidated Balance Sheet effective October 17, 2005. This deconsolidation is reflected in the information contained in this Financial Supplement. We had previously consolidated Market Street under the provisions of FIN 46R effective July 1, 2003.
(Unaudited)
Consolidated Income Statement
 
(Unaudited)
Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
(Unaudited)
Summary of Business Results and Period-end Employees
 
 
 
 
The period-end employee statistics disclosed for each business segment reflect staff directly employed by the respective business segment and exclude operations, technology and staff services employees. No employees are shown for BlackRock at September 30, 2006 as we deconsolidated BlackRock effective September 29, 2006.
(Unaudited)
Retail Banking
 
(Unaudited) (Continued)
Retail Banking
 
(Unaudited)
Corporate & Institutional Banking
 
(Unaudited) (a) (b)
BlackRock
 
The following is a reconciliation of BlackRock's earnings as reported in this PNC business segment reporting presentation to BlackRock's reported GAAP earnings (in millions):
 
 
(Unaudited) (a)
PFPC
 
 
 
Taxable-equivalent basis
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP amounts with amounts used in the calculation of the bank efficiency ratio:
 
 
 
 
(Unaudited)
Retail Banking Efficiency Ratios
 
Reconciliation of GAAP amounts with amounts used in the calculation of the adjusted Retail Banking efficiency ratio:
 
 
 
 
 
(Unaudited)
Details of Loans and Lending Statistics
Loans
 
 
Allowances for Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit and
(Unaudited)
Net Unfunded Commitments
Change in Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses
 
Change in Allowance for Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit
 
(Unaudited)
Details of Nonperforming Assets
Nonperforming Assets by Type
 
Change in Nonperforming Assets
 
(Unaudited) (Continued)
Details of Nonperforming Assets
Nonperforming Assets by Business
 
Largest Nonperforming Assets at September 30, 2006 - in millions (b)
 
Glossary of Terms
- Net domestic and foreign fund investment assets for which we provide accounting and administration services. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Accounting/administration net fund assets
- Primarily comprised of total average quarterly (or annual) assets plus (less) unrealized losses (gains) on available-for-sale debt securities, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets.
Adjusted average total assets
- Adjusted to reflect a full year of activity.
Annualized
- Assets over which we have sole or shared investment authority for our customers/clients. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Assets under management
- One hundredth of a percentage point.
Basis point
- Process of removing a loan or portion of a loan from our balance sheet because it is considered uncollectible. We also record a charge-off when a loan is transferred to held for sale and the loan's market value is less than its carrying amount.
Charge-off
- Common shareholders' equity divided by total assets. Common shareholders' equity equals total shareholders' equity less the liquidation value of preferred stock.
Common shareholders' equity to total assets
- Investment assets held on behalf of clients under safekeeping arrangements. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Investment assets held in custody at other institutions on our behalf are included in the appropriate asset categories on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as if physically held by us.
Custody assets
- Financial contracts whose value is derived from publicly traded securities, interest rates, currency exchange rates or market indices. Derivatives cover a wide assortment of financial contracts, including forward contracts, futures, options and swaps.
Derivatives
- An estimate of the rate sensitivity of our economic value of equity. A negative duration of equity is associated with asset sensitivity ( positioned for rising interest rates), while a positive value implies liability sensitivity ( vulnerable to rising rates). For example, if the duration of equity is +1.5 years, the economic value of equity declines by 1.5% for each 100 basis point increase in interest rates.
Duration of equity
i.e.,
i.e.,
- Assets that generate income, which include: federal funds sold; resale agreements; other short-term investments, including trading securities; loans held for sale; loans, net of unearned income; securities; and certain other assets.
Earning assets
- Represents the amount of resources that our business segments should hold to guard against potentially large losses that could cause insolvency. It is based on a measurement of economic risk, as opposed to risk as defined by regulatory bodies. The economic capital measurement process involves converting a risk distribution to the capital that is required to support the risk, consistent with our target credit rating. As such, economic risk serves as a "common currency" of risk that allows us to compare different risks on a similar basis.
Economic capital
- The present value of the expected cash flows of our existing assets less the present value of the expected cash flows of our existing liabilities, plus the present value of the net cash flows of our existing off-balance sheet positions.
Economic value of equity ("EVE")
- A measurement, expressed in years, that, when multiplied by a change in interest rates, would approximate the percentage change in value of on- and off- balance sheet positions.
Effective duration
- Noninterest expense divided by the sum of net interest income and noninterest income.
Efficiency
- A management accounting methodology designed to recognize the net interest income effects of sources and uses of funds provided by the assets and liabilities of our business segments. We assign these balances LIBOR-based funding rates at origination that represent the interest cost for us to raise/invest funds with similar maturity and repricing structures.
Funds transfer pricing
- Contracts in which the buyer agrees to purchase and the seller agrees to deliver a specific financial instrument at a predetermined price or yield. May be settled either in cash or by delivery of the underlying financial instrument.
Futures and forward contracts
- Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
GAAP
- Tier 1 risk-based capital divided by adjusted average total assets.
Leverage ratio
- Annualized taxable-equivalent net interest income divided by average earning assets.
Net interest margin
- Assets we hold for our customers/clients in a non-discretionary, custodial capacity. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Nondiscretionary assets under administration
- Noninterest income divided by the sum of net interest income and noninterest income.
Noninterest income to total revenue
- Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans, troubled debt restructured loans, nonaccrual loans held for sale, foreclosed assets and other assets. We do not accrue interest income on assets classified as nonperforming.
Nonperforming assets
- Nonperforming loans include loans to commercial, commercial real estate, equipment lease financing, consumer, and residential mortgage customers as well as troubled debt restructured loans. Nonperforming loans do not include nonaccrual loans held for sale or foreclosed and other assets. We do not accrue interest income on loans classified as nonperforming.
Nonperforming loans
- The period to period percentage change in total revenue less the percentage change in noninterest expense. A positive percentage indicates that revenue growth exceeded expense growth ( positive operating leverage) while a negative percentage implies expense growth exceeded revenue growth ( negative operating leverage).
Operating leverage
i.e.,
i.e.,
- Cash proceeds received on a loan that we had previously charged off. We credit the amount received to the allowance for loan and lease losses.
Recovery
- Annualized net income divided by average capital.
Return on average capital
- Annualized net income divided by average assets.
Return on average assets
- Annualized net income divided by average common shareholders' equity.
Return on average common equity
- Primarily computed by the assignment of specific risk-weights (as defined by The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) to assets and off-balance sheet instruments.
Risk-weighted assets
- The process of legally transforming financial assets into securities.
Securitization
- Period-end common shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets (excluding mortgage servicing rights) divided by period-end assets less goodwill and other intangible assets (excluding mortgage servicing rights).
Tangible common equity ratio
- The interest income earned on certain assets is completely or partially exempt from federal income tax. As such, these tax-exempt instruments typically yield lower returns than a taxable investment. To provide more meaningful comparisons of yields and margins for all interest-earning assets,
Taxable-equivalent interest
we also provide revenue on a taxable-equivalent basis by increasing the interest income earned on tax-exempt assets to make it fully equivalent to interest income on other taxable investments. This adjustment is not permitted under GAAP on the Consolidated Income Statement.
- Tier 1 risk-based capital equals: total shareholders' equity, plus trust preferred capital securities, plus certain minority interests that are held by others; less goodwill and certain other intangible assets, less equity investments in nonfinancial companies and less net unrealized holding losses on available-for-sale equity securities. Net unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale equity securities, net unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities and net unrealized holding gains (losses) on cash flow hedge derivatives are excluded from total shareholders' equity for tier 1 risk-based capital purposes.
Tier 1 risk-based capital
- Tier 1 risk-based capital divided by period-end risk-weighted assets.
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
- Total domestic and offshore fund investment assets for which we provide related processing services. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Total fund assets serviced
- A non-traditional swap where one party agrees to pay the other the "total return" of a defined underlying asset (., a loan), usually in return for receiving a stream of LIBOR-based cash flows. The total returns of the asset, including interest and any default shortfall, are passed through to the counterparty. The counterparty is therefore assuming the credit and economic risk of the underlying asset.
Total return swap
e.g
- Tier 1 risk-based capital plus qualifying senior and subordinated debt, other minority interest not qualified as tier 1, and the allowance for loan and lease losses, subject to certain limitations.
Total risk-based capital
- Total risk-based capital divided by period-end risk-weighted assets.
Total risk-based capital ratio
- The sum of money market and interest-bearing demand deposits and demand and other noninterest-bearing deposits.
Transaction deposits
- A graph showing the relationship between the yields on financial instruments or market indices of the same credit quality with different maturities. For example, a "normal" or "positive" yield curve exists when long-term bonds have higher yields than short-term bonds. A "flat" yield curve exists when yields are the same for short-term and long-term bonds. A "steep" yield curve exists when yields on long-term bonds are significantly higher than on short-term bonds. An "inverted" or "negative" yield curve exists when short-term bonds have higher yields than long-term bonds.
Yield curve
Business Segment Descriptions
provides deposit, lending, brokerage, trust, investment management, and cash management services to approximately 2.5 million consumer and small business customers within our primary geographic area. Our customers are serviced through approximately 850 offices in our branch network, the call center located in Pittsburgh and the Internet  . The branch network is located primarily in Pennsylvania; New Jersey; the greater Washington, D.C. area, including Virginia and Maryland; Ohio; Kentucky and Delaware. Brokerage services are provided through PNC Investments, LLC, and J.J.B. Hilliard, W.L. Lyons, Inc. Retail Banking also serves as investment manager and trustee for employee benefit plans and charitable and endowment assets and provides nondiscretionary defined contribution plan services and investment options through its product. These services are provided to individuals and corporations primarily within our primary geographic markets.
Retail Banking
www.pncbank.com
Vested Interest
provides lending, treasury management, and capital markets products and services to mid-sized corporations, government entities, and selectively to large corporations. Lending products include secured and unsecured loans, letters of credit and equipment leases. Treasury management services include cash and investment management, receivables management, disbursement services, funds transfer services, information reporting, and global trade services. Capital markets products and services include foreign exchange, derivatives, loan syndications, mergers and acquisitions advisory and related services to middle-market companies, securities underwriting, and securities sales and trading. Corporate & Institutional Banking also provides commercial loan servicing, real estate advisory and technology solutions for the commercial real estate finance industry. Corporate & Institutional Banking provides products and services generally within our primary geographic markets, with certain products and services provided nationally.
Corporate & Institutional Banking
is one of the world's largest publicly traded investment management firms. As of September 30, 2006, BlackRock's assets under management, including assets under management acquired as a result of the BlackRock/MLIM transaction, were $1.1 trillion. The firm manages assets on behalf of institutions and individuals worldwide through a variety of equity, fixed income, cash management and alternative investment products. In addition, BlackRock provides BlackRock Solutions Investment System, risk management, and financial advisory services to a growing number of institutional investors. The firm has a major presence in key global markets, including the United States, Europe, Asia, Australia and the Middle East. For additional information, please visit the firm's website at www.blackrock.com. At September 30, 2006, PNC owned approximately 34% of BlackRock and will prospectively account for its investment in BlackRock under the equity method.
BlackRock
is a leading full service provider of processing, technology and business solutions for the global investment industry. Securities services include custody, securities lending, and accounting and administration for funds registered under the 1940 Act and alternative investments. Investor services include transfer agency, managed accounts, subaccounting, and distribution. PFPC serviced $2.0 trillion in total assets and 66 million shareholder accounts as of September 30, 2006 both domestically and internationally through its Ireland and Luxembourg operations.
PFPC
Additional Information About The PNC/Mercantile Transaction
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and Mercantile Bankshares Corporation ("Mercantile Bankshares") will be filing a proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant documents concerning the PNC/Mercantile merger transaction with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). SHAREHOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER DOCUMENTS TO BE FILED WITH THE SEC IN CONNECTION WITH THE MERGER TRANSACTION OR INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN THE PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Shareholders will be able to obtain free copies of the proxy statement/prospectus, as well as other filings containing information about Mercantile Bankshares and PNC, without charge, at the SEC's Internet site (http://www.sec.gov). In addition, documents filed with the SEC by The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. will be available free of charge from Shareholder Relations at (800) 843-2206. Documents filed with the SEC by Mercantile Bankshares will be available free of charge from Mercantile Bankshares Corporation, 2 Hopkins Plaza, P.O. Box 1477, Baltimore, Maryland 21203, Attention: Investor Relations.
Mercantile Bankshares and its directors and executive officers and certain other members of management and employees are expected to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from Mercantile Bankshares' shareholders in respect of the proposed merger transaction. Information regarding the directors and executive officers of Mercantile Bankshares is available in the proxy statement for its May 9, 2006 annual meeting of shareholders, which was filed with the SEC on March 29, 2006. Additional information regarding the interests of such potential participants will be included in the proxy statement/prospectus relating to the merger transaction and the other relevant documents filed with the SEC when they become available.



