FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20060719121209.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 19, 2006, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ("the Corporation") issued a press release and held a conference call for investors regarding the Corporation's earnings and business results for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2006. The Corporation also provided supplementary financial information on its web site, including financial information disclosed in connection with its press release, and provided electronic presentation slides on its web site used in connection with the related investor conference call. Copies of the supplementary financial information and electronic presentation slides are included in this Report as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are furnished herewith.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits. The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index accompanying this Form 8-K are furnished herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
The information contained in this Financial Supplement is preliminary, unaudited and based on data available at July 19, 2006. We have reclassified certain prior period amounts included in this Financial Supplement to be consistent with the current period presentation.
As disclosed in our 2005 Form 10-K, in October 2005 Market Street Funding ("Market Street"), a multi-seller asset-backed commercial paper conduit owned by an independent third party and administered by PNC Bank, N.A., was restructured. As a result, Market Street was deconsolidated from our Consolidated Balance Sheet effective October 17, 2005. This deconsolidation is reflected in the information contained in this Financial Supplement. We had previously consolidated Market Street under the provisions of FIN 46R effective July 1, 2003.
This information speaks only as of the particular date or dates included in the schedules. We do not undertake any obligation to, and disclaim any duty to, correct or update any of the information provided in this Financial Supplement. Our future financial performance is subject to risks and uncertainties as described in our SEC filings.
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
(Unaudited)
Consolidated Income Statement
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
(Unaudited)
Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
 
 
 
 
The period-end employee statistics disclosed for each business segment reflect staff directly employed by the respective business segment and exclude operations, technology and staff services employees.
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
(Unaudited)
Retail Banking
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
(Unaudited) (Continued)
Retail Banking
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
(Unaudited)
Corporate & Institutional Banking
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
(Unaudited) (a)
BlackRock
 
We believe that operating margin, as adjusted, is an effective indicator of management's ability to, and useful to management in deciding how to, effectively employ BlackRock's resources. As such, we believe operating margin, as adjusted, provides useful disclosure to investors. The 2006 SSRM fee-sharing payment was excluded because it represents a non-recurring payment (based on a performance fee) pursuant to the SSRM acquisition agreement. The portion of the LTIP expense associated with awards to be met by the distribution to the LTIP participants of shares of BlackRock stock currently held by PNC has been excluded from operating income because, exclusive of the potential impact related to LTIP participants' put options, these charges will not impact BlackRock's book value. Compensation expense associated with appreciation on assets related to BlackRock's deferred compensation plans has been excluded because investment returns on these assets reported in nonoperating income, net of the related impact on compensation expense, results in a nominal impact on net income. MLIM transaction costs consist of compensation costs and certain professional fees incurred in 2006 related to the pending MLIM transaction. We have excluded fund administration and servicing costs from the operating margin, as adjusted, calculation because BlackRock receives offsetting revenue and expense for these services. Reimbursable property management compensation represents compensation and benefits paid to certain BlackRock Realty Advisors, Inc. ("Realty") personnel. These employees are retained on Realty's payroll when properties are acquired by Realty's clients. The related compensation and benefits are fully reimbursed by Realty's clients and have been excluded from revenue used for operating margin measurement, as adjusted, because they bear no economic cost to BlackRock.
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
(Unaudited) (a)
PFPC
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
(Unaudited)
Details of Net Interest Income, Net Interest Margin, and Trading Revenue
Taxable-equivalent basis
Net Interest Income
 
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
 
GAAP and Bank Efficiency Ratios
 
Reconciliation of GAAP amounts with amounts used in the calculation of the bank efficiency ratio:
 
Retail Banking Efficiency Ratios
 
Activities excluded are the principal activities of Hilliard Lyons on a management reporting basis, including client-related brokerage and trading, investment banking and investment management. Industry-wide efficiency measures for brokerage firms and asset management firms differ significantly due primarily to the highly variable compensation structure of brokerage firms. We believe the disclosure of an efficiency ratio for Retail Banking excluding the impact of these Hilliard Lyons activities is meaningful for investors as it provides a more relevant basis of comparison with other retail banking franchises.
Reconciliation of GAAP amounts with amounts used in the calculation of the adjusted Retail Banking efficiency ratio:
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
(Unaudited)
Average Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
(Unaudited) (Continued)
Average Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
(Unaudited)
Details of Loans and Lending Statistics
Loans
 
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
(Unaudited)
Allowances for Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit and Net Unfunded Commitments
Change in Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses
 
Change in Allowance for Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
(Unaudited)
Details of Nonperforming Assets
Nonperforming Assets by Type
 
Change in Nonperforming Assets
 
 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
(Unaudited) (Continued)
Details of Nonperforming Assets
Nonperforming Assets by Business
 
Largest Nonperforming Assets at June 30, 2006 - in millions (b)
 
 
Glossary of Terms
- Net domestic and foreign fund investment assets for which we provide accounting and administration services. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Accounting/administration net fund assets
- Primarily comprised of total average quarterly (or annual) assets plus (less) unrealized losses (gains) on available-for-sale debt securities, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets.
Adjusted average total assets
- Adjusted to reflect a full year of activity.
Annualized
- Assets over which we have sole or shared investment authority for our customers/clients. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Assets under management
 One hundredth of a percentage point.
Basis point
- Process of removing a loan or portion of a loan from our balance sheet because it is considered uncollectible. We also record a charge-off when a loan is transferred to held for sale and its market value is less than its carrying amount.
Charge-off
- Common shareholders' equity divided by total assets. Common shareholders' equity equals total shareholders' equity less the liquidation value of preferred stock.
Common shareholders' equity to total assets
- Investment assets held on behalf of clients under safekeeping arrangements. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Investment assets held in custody at other institutions on our behalf are included in the appropriate asset categories on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as if physically held by us.
Custody assets
- Financial contracts whose value is derived from publicly traded securities, interest rates, currency exchange rates or market indices. Derivatives cover a wide assortment of financial contracts, including forward contracts, futures, options and swaps.
Derivatives
- An estimate of the rate sensitivity of our economic value of equity. A negative duration of equity is associated with asset sensitivity (i.e., positioned for rising interest rates), while a positive value implies liability sensitivity (i.e., vulnerable to rising rates). For example, if the duration of equity is +1.5 years, the economic value of equity declines by 1.5% for each 100 basis point increase in interest rates.
Duration of equity
- Assets that generate income, which include: federal funds sold; resale agreements; other short-term investments, including trading securities; loans held for sale; loans, net of unearned income; securities; and certain other assets.
Earning assets
- Represents the amount of resources that our business segments should hold to guard against potentially large losses that could cause insolvency. It is based on a measurement of economic risk, as opposed to risk as defined by regulatory bodies. The economic capital measurement process involves converting a risk distribution to the capital that is required to support the risk, consistent with our target credit rating. As such, economic risk serves as a "common currency" of risk that allows us to compare different risks on a similar basis.
Economic capital
- The present value of the expected cash flows of our existing assets less the present value of the expected cash flows of our existing liabilities, plus the present value of the net cash flows of our existing off-balance sheet positions.
Economic value of equity ("EVE")
- A measurement, expressed in years, that, when multiplied by a change in interest rates, would approximate the percentage change in value of our on- and off-balance sheet positions.
Effective duration
 
- Noninterest expense divided by the sum of net interest income and noninterest income.
Efficiency
- A management accounting methodology designed to recognize the net interest income effects of sources and uses of funds provided by the assets and liabilities of our business segments. We assign these balances LIBOR-based funding rates at origination that represent the interest cost for us to raise/invest funds with similar maturity and repricing structures.
Funds transfer pricing
- Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
GAAP
- Tier 1 risk-based capital divided by adjusted average total assets.
Leverage ratio
- Annualized taxable-equivalent net interest income divided by average earning assets.
Net interest margin
- Assets we hold for our customers/clients in a non-discretionary, custodial capacity. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Nondiscretionary assets under administration
- Noninterest income divided by the sum of net interest income and noninterest income.
Noninterest income to total revenue
- Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans, troubled debt restructured loans, nonaccrual loans held for sale, foreclosed assets and other assets. We do not accrue interest income on assets classified as nonperforming.
Nonperforming assets
- Nonperforming loans include loans to commercial, equipment lease financing, consumer, commercial real estate and residential mortgage customers as well as troubled debt restructured loans. Nonperforming loans do not include nonaccrual loans held for sale, foreclosed assets or other assets. We do not accrue interest income on loans classified as nonperforming.
Nonperforming loans
- The period to period percentage change in total revenue less the percentage change in noninterest expense. A positive percentage indicates that revenue growth exceeded expense growth (i.e., positive operating leverage) while a negative percentage implies expense growth exceeded revenue growth (i.e., negative operating leverage).
Operating leverage
- Cash proceeds received on a loan that we had previously charged off. We credit the amount received to the allowance for loan and lease losses.
Recovery
- Annualized net income divided by average capital.
Return on average capital
- Annualized net income divided by average assets.
Return on average assets
- - Annualized net income divided by average common shareholders' equity.
Return on average common equity
- Primarily computed by the assignment of specific risk-weights (as defined by The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) to assets and off-balance sheet instruments.
Risk-weighted assets
- The process of legally transforming financial assets into securities.
Securitization
- Common shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets (excluding mortgage servicing rights) divided by period-end assets less goodwill and other intangible assets (excluding mortgage servicing rights).
Tangible common equity ratio
 
- The interest income earned on certain assets is completely or partially exempt from federal income tax. As such, these tax-exempt instruments typically yield lower returns than a taxable investment. To provide more meaningful comparisons of yields and margins for all interest-earning assets, we also provide revenue on a taxable-equivalent basis by increasing the interest income earned on tax-exempt assets to make it fully equivalent to interest income on other taxable investments. This adjustment is not permitted under GAAP on the Consolidated Income Statement.
Taxable-equivalent interest
- Tier 1 risk-based capital equals: total shareholders' equity, plus trust preferred capital securities, plus certain minority interests that are held by others; less goodwill and certain other intangible assets, less equity investments in nonfinancial companies and less net unrealized holding losses on available-for-sale equity securities. Net unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale equity securities, net unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities and net unrealized holding gains (losses) on cash flow hedge derivatives are excluded from total shareholders' equity for tier 1 risk-based capital purposes.
Tier 1 risk-based capital
- Tier 1 risk-based capital divided by period-end risk-weighted assets.
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
- Total domestic and offshore fund investment assets for which we provide related processing services. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Total fund assets serviced
- Tier 1 risk-based capital plus qualifying senior and subordinated debt, other minority interest not qualified as tier 1, and the allowance for loan and lease losses, subject to certain limitations.
Total risk-based capital
- Total risk-based capital divided by period-end risk-weighted assets.
Total risk-based capital ratio
- The sum of money market and interest-bearing demand deposits and demand and other noninterest-bearing deposits.
Transaction deposits
- A graph showing the relationship between the yields on financial instruments or market indices of the same credit quality with different maturities. For example, a "normal" or "positive" yield curve exists when long-term bonds have higher yields than short-term bonds. A "flat" yield curve exists when yields are the same for short-term and long-term bonds. A "steep" yield curve exists when yields on long-term bonds are significantly higher than on short-term bonds. An "inverted" or "negative" yield curve exists when short-term bonds have higher yields than long-term bonds.
Yield curve (shape of the yield curve, flat yield curve)
 
Business Segment Products and Services
provides deposit, lending, brokerage, trust, investment management, and cash management services to approximately 2.5 million consumer and small business customers within our primary geographic area. Our customers are serviced through approximately 850 offices in our branch network, the call center located in Pittsburgh and the Internet  . The branch network is located primarily in Pennsylvania; New Jersey; the greater Washington, D.C. area, including Virginia and Maryland; Ohio; Kentucky and Delaware. Brokerage services are provided through PNC Investments, LLC, and J.J.B. Hilliard, W.L. Lyons, Inc. Retail Banking also serves as investment manager and trustee for employee benefit plans and charitable and endowment assets and provides nondiscretionary defined contribution plan services and investment options through its product. These services are provided to individuals and corporations primarily within our primary geographic markets.
Retail Banking
www.pncbank.com
Vested Interest
provides lending, treasury management, and capital markets products and services to mid-sized corporations, government entities, and selectively to large corporations. Lending products include secured and unsecured loans, letters of credit and equipment leases. Treasury management services include cash and investment management, receivables management, disbursement services, funds transfer services, information reporting, and global trade services. Capital markets products and services include foreign exchange, derivatives, loan syndications, mergers and acquisitions advisory and related services to middle-market companies, securities underwriting, and securities sales and trading. Corporate & Institutional Banking also provides commercial loan servicing, real estate advisory and technology solutions for the commercial real estate finance industry. Corporate & Institutional Banking provides products and services generally within our primary geographic markets, with certain products and services provided nationally.
Corporate & Institutional Banking
is one of the largest publicly traded investment management firms in the United States, with approximately $464 billion of assets under management at June 30, 2006. BlackRock provides diversified investment management services to institutional and individual investors worldwide through a variety of fixed income, cash management, equity, and alternative investment products. Mutual funds include the flagship fund families, and s. In addition, BlackRock provides risk management, investment system outsourcing and financial advisory services to institutional investors under the BlackRock Solutions brand name.
BlackRock
BlackRock Funds
BlackRock Liquidity Fund
is a leading full service provider of processing, technology and business solutions for the global investment industry. Securities services include custody, securities lending and accounting and administration for funds registered under the 1940 Act and alternative investments. Investor services include transfer agency, managed accounts, subaccounting, and distribution. PFPC services $1.9 trillion in total assets and 65 million shareholder accounts as of June 30, 2006 both domestically and internationally through its Ireland and Luxembourg operations.
PFPC
 



