FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20070430165652.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Shareholder Approval of 1996 Executive Incentive Award Plan, as Amended and Restated
On April 24, 2007, PNC's shareholders approved the adoption of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. 1996 Executive Incentive Award Plan, as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2007 (the "Plan"), at the annual meeting of shareholders held that day. The Plan was adopted by PNC's Board of Directors on February 14, 2007, subject to shareholder approval at the annual meeting. Now that shareholder approval has been obtained, the Plan is effective as of January 1, 2007.
The material terms of the Plan are summarized in the definitive proxy statement for PNC's 2007 annual meeting of shareholders. The following is a summary of the material amendments to the Plan. Unless otherwise specified, capitalized terms used in this discussion have the meanings assigned to them in the Plan.
 
 
 
 
We refer you to PNC's definitive proxy statement for its 2007 annual meeting of shareholders, which was filed with the SEC on March 23, 2007, for additional discussion of the Plan. A copy of the Plan
document was included as Exhibit A to the proxy statement, and is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report and to this Item 5.02. Our proxy statement can be accessed on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov or on PNC's corporate website at www.pnc.com (under About PNCFinancial InformationSEC FilingsProxy Statements).
Retirement of Director
On April 24, 2007, J. Gary Cooper retired as a director of PNC. In accordance with The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. Corporate Governance Guidelines, which provide that any person age 70 or older shall not be nominated for re-election as a director, Mr. Cooper was not nominated for election at the annual meeting of shareholders held on that date.
Director Compensation Review
On April 24, 2007, the Nominating and Governance Committee of PNC's Board of Directors conducted its annual review of compensation for the board's non-employee directors. The committee discussed a report prepared by its outside compensation consultant on director compensation practices among PNC's peer group members and Fortune 500 companies generally. Based in part on that report, the committee made no changes to the annual retainer and meeting fee schedules for non-employee directors. These schedules are shown below.
:
Annual Retainer Schedule
 
:
Meeting Fee Schedule
 
Non-employee directors continue to be eligible to participate in the Directors Deferred Compensation Plan and to receive equity-based grants under the 1992 Director Share Incentive Plan, under the 2006 Incentive Award Plan, and under the Outside Directors Deferred Stock Unit Plan, and to receive the other director benefits described in our proxy statement for the 2007 annual meeting of shareholders that was held on April 24, 2007.
After internal deliberation and consideration of the report prepared by its outside compensation consultant, the Nominating and Governance Committee granted 1,232 deferred stock units to each non-employee director on April 24, 2007 as part of the equity-based component of non-employee director compensation for 2007. All non-employee directors received this deferred stock unit grant, including the three new directors who were elected by shareholders at the annual meeting on April 24, 2007 (Messrs. Richard O. Berndt, Charles E. Bunch and Donald J. Shepard).
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


