FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20080909160337.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In response to the significant increase in the share price of BlackRock, Inc. ("BlackRock") common stock, the continued widening of credit spreads since June 30, 2008, and recent developments at the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ("FHLMC") and Federal National Mortgage Association ("FNMA"), The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ("the Corporation") is providing the following information.
1) As of August 31, 2008, the increase in the BlackRock share price has negatively impacted noninterest income of the Corporation by approximately $120 million due to an increase in the liability related to our BlackRock LTIP shares obligation. On a monthly basis, we mark to market our liability that represents a commitment to fund additional BlackRock LTIP programs. The market value of the Corporation's investment in BlackRock has increased approximately $1.7 billion since June 30, 2008 and the unrecognized value of our investment in BlackRock was $5.1 billion at August 31, 2008.
2) As of August 31, 2008, the continued widening of credit spreads on certain assets reported at fair value, primarily commercial mortgage loans held for sale, driven by lack of market liquidity has negatively impacted noninterest income by approximately $120 million. These valuation adjustments do not represent credit quality concerns with the underlying assets.
3) The Corporation owns perpetual preferred stock in FHLMC and FNMA with an aggregate cost of $80 million. Due to the recent restructuring at these entities and the resulting impact on market pricing of the shares, we expect to record a significant other-than-temporary impairment charge on these shares in the third quarter of 2008.
As a result of these anticipated adjustments to noninterest income, the Corporation now expects total revenue growth to exceed ten percent for the full year 2008 compared with the full year 2007. Total noninterest expense percentage growth expectations remain at low to mid single digits resulting in significant positive operating leverage for the same period comparison.
Also as of August 31, 2008, the Corporation's accumulated other comprehensive loss included in shareholders' equity has increased by $0.8 billion to $2.0 billion primarily driven by the impact of widening credit spreads on our available for sale securities portfolio. Excluding the preferred stock mentioned above, these valuation adjustments do not represent credit quality concerns with the underlying assets.
Final results for the third quarter of 2008 will depend on market conditions as of September 30, 2008, which may be different, possibly significantly so, from the conditions at the end of August 2008 reflected in the amounts provided above.
The Corporation's remaining business operations and credit quality migrations are performing as expected.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K ("Report") shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and shall be incorporated by reference into registration statements and other documents filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information
We make statements in this Report, and we may from time to time make other statements, regarding our outlook or expectations for earnings, revenues, expenses and/or other matters regarding or affecting the Corporation that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "outlook," "estimate," "forecast," "will," " project" and other similar words and expressions.
Forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We do not assume any duty and do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements. Actual results or future events could differ, possibly materially, from those that we anticipated in our forward-looking statements, and future results could differ materially from our historical performance.
Our forward-looking statements are subject to the following principal risks and uncertainties. We provide greater detail regarding some of these factors in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and in our second quarter 2008 Form 10-Q, including in the Risk Factors and Risk Management sections of these reports. Our forward-looking statements may also be subject to other risks and uncertainties, including those discussed elsewhere in this Report or in our other filings with the SEC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We grow our business from time to time by acquiring other financial services companies. Acquisitions in general present us with risks in addition to those presented by the nature of the business acquired. In particular, acquisitions may be substantially more expensive to complete (including as a result of costs incurred in connection with the integration of the acquired company) and the anticipated benefits (including anticipated cost savings and strategic gains) may be significantly harder or take longer to achieve than expected. In some cases, acquisitions involve our entry into new businesses or new geographic or other markets, and these situations also present risks resulting from our inexperience in these new areas. As a regulated financial institution, our pursuit of attractive acquisition opportunities could be negatively impacted due to regulatory delays or other regulatory issues. Regulatory and/or legal issues related to the pre-acquisition operations of an acquired business may cause reputational harm to PNC following the acquisition and integration of the acquired business into ours and may result in additional future costs arising as a result of those issues. Our recent acquisition of Sterling Financial Corporation ("Sterling") presents regulatory and litigation risk, as a result of financial irregularities at Sterling's commercial finance subsidiary, that may adversely impact our financial results.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


