FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20090303124518.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 3, 2009, James E. Rohr, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (the "Corporation"), gave a presentation to investors at the Sandler O'Neill 2009 West Coast Financial Services Conference in San Francisco, California. This presentation was accompanied by a series of electronic slides that included information pertaining to the financial results and business strategies of the Corporation. A copy of these slides and related material is included in this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is furnished herewith.
 
On March 2, 2009, the Corporation issued a press release and held a conference call for investors regarding the announcement that the Board of Directors will reduce the Corporation's quarterly common stock dividend from $0.66 to $0.10 per share and providing a business update. The Corporation also provided on its web site electronic presentation slides including additional information that it used in connection with the conference call. Copies of the Corporation's press release and slides for the related conference call are included in this report as Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3 and are filed herewith.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 


Exhibit 99.2
CONTACTS:
MEDIA:
Brian E. Goerke
(412) 762-4550
corporate.communications@pnc.com
INVESTORS:
William H. Callihan
(412) 762-8257
investor.relations@pnc.com
PITTSBURGH, March 2, 2009  The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (NYSE: PNC) today announced that its Board of Directors will reduce the company's quarterly common stock dividend from $.66 to $.10 per share. The next dividend is expected to be declared in early April.
"We are taking this proactive step to build capital, further strengthen our balance sheet and serve our customers in an unprecedented and uncertain economy," said James E. Rohr, chairman and chief executive officer. "Our Board recognizes the importance of the dividend to our shareholders. While our overall capital and liquidity positions are strong, extreme market deterioration and the changing regulatory environment drove this difficult but prudent decision. We continue to be optimistic about the long-term benefits of the National City acquisition. Our first quarter 2009 results to date, excluding acquisition costs, are in line with Wall Street analyst expectations."
HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
PNC to Reduce Quarterly Common Stock Dividend to $.10 Per Share,
Retaining $1 Billion Annually in Additional Capital Page 2
 
 
"PNC is recognized for using capital in a disciplined manner. We believe our dividend reduction is appropriate given the uncertainty we see in the environment. We plan to increase our dividend after conditions normalize," Rohr added.
CONFERENCE CALL AND SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
PNC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer James E. Rohr and Chief Financial Officer Richard J. Johnson will hold a conference call for investors today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time regarding the topics addressed in this news release. Investors should call five to 10 minutes before the start of the conference call at 800-990-2718 or 706-643-0187 (international). The related presentation slides to accompany the conference call remarks may be found at www.pnc.com/investorevents. A taped replay of the call will be available for one week at 800-642-1687 or 706-645-9291 (international), conference ID 88412775.
In addition, Internet access to the call (listen only) and to this release and presentation slides will be available at www.pnc.com/investorevents. A replay of the webcast will be available on PNC's Web site for 30 days.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (www.pnc.com) is one of the nation's largest diversified financial services organizations providing retail and business banking; specialized services for corporations and government entities, including corporate banking, real estate finance and asset-based lending; wealth management; asset management and global fund services.
PNC to Reduce Quarterly Common Stock Dividend to $.10 Per Share,
Retaining $1 Billion Annually in Additional Capital Page 3
C S R F-L I
AUTIONARY
TATEMENT
EGARDING
ORWARD
OOKING
NFORMATION
We make statements in this news release and in the conference call regarding this news release, and we may from time to time make other statements, regarding our outlook or expectations for earnings, revenues, expenses, capital levels, liquidity levels, asset quality and/or other matters regarding or affecting PNC that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "outlook," "estimate," "forecast," "will," " project" and other similar words and expressions. Forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We do not assume any duty and do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements. Actual results or future events could differ, possibly materially, from those that we anticipated in our forward-looking statements, and future results could differ materially from our historical performance.
Our forward-looking statements are subject to the following principal risks and uncertainties. We provide greater detail regarding some of these factors in our 2007 Form 10-K and our 2008 Form 10-Qs, and in our 2008 Form 10-K upon its filing, including in the Risk Factors and Risk Management sections of those reports, and in our other SEC filings. Our forward-looking statements may also be subject to other risks and uncertainties, including those that we may discuss elsewhere in this news release or in our filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on or through our corporate website at www.pnc.com/secfilings. We have included these web addresses as inactive textual references only. Information on these websites is not part of this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PNC to Reduce Quarterly Common Stock Dividend to $.10 Per Share,
Retaining $1 Billion Annually in Additional Capital Page 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, our recent acquisition of National City Corporation ("National City") presents us with a number of risks and uncertainties related both to the acquisition transaction itself and to the integration of the acquired businesses into PNC. These risks and uncertainties include the following:
 
 
 
 
In addition to the National City transaction, we grow our business from time to time by acquiring other financial services companies. Acquisitions in general present us with risks, in addition to those presented by the nature of the business acquired, similar to some or all of those described above relating to the National City acquisition.



