FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20090527155302.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 27, 2009, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it had completed the issuance and sale of 15 million shares of its common stock, par value $5.00 per share ("Common Stock") through its "at the market" offering launched on May 14, 2009, resulting in gross proceeds to the Company in excess of $600 million. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The 15 million shares of Common Stock were issued and sold pursuant to an Equity Distribution Agreement dated May 14, 2009 (the "Agreement") with Morgan Stanley & Co., Incorporated.
Further details regarding the terms of the Agreement are set forth in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K that was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on May 14, 2009 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Shares of Common Stock sold pursuant to the Agreement were issued pursuant to a prospectus supplement filed with the Commission on May 14, 2009 to the accompanying prospectus filed with the Commission on January 10, 2007, as part of the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (File No. 333-139912).
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
CONTACTS:
MEDIA:
Brian Goerke
(412) 762-4550
corporate.communications@pnc.com
INVESTORS:
William H. Callihan
(412) 762-8257
investor.relations@pnc.com
PITTSBURGH, May 27, 2009  The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (NYSE: PNC) today announced that it has raised in excess of $600 million in common equity through the issuance of 15 million shares of common stock through an "at the market" offering launched on May 14, 2009. The offering was related to PNC's plan for increasing its common equity following the results of the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
"Given the ongoing uncertainty in the market, capital strength and liquidity are key drivers of success," said James E. Rohr, chairman and chief executive officer. "I am pleased that we were able to raise the required $600 million of common equity at market prices and in a relatively short time frame."
PNC expects to continue to increase its common equity as a proportion of total capital through growth in retained earnings and will consider other capital opportunities as appropriate.
The company has no plans to convert preferred shares issued under the U.S. Treasury Department's Capital Purchase Program. Further, PNC plans to redeem Treasury's $7.6 billion investment in preferred shares as soon as appropriate, subject to approval by its primary banking regulators.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (www.pnc.com) is one of the nation's largest diversified financial services organizations providing retail and business banking; residential mortgage banking; specialized services for corporations and government entities, including corporate banking, real estate finance and asset-based lending; wealth management; asset management and global fund services.
PNC Raises More Than $600 Million In Common Equity
Through At-The-Market Issuance  Page 2
C S R F-L I
AUTIONARY
TATEMENT
EGARDING
ORWARD
OOKING
NFORMATION
We make statements in this news release, and we may from time to time make other statements, regarding our outlook or expectations for earnings, revenues, expenses, capital levels, liquidity levels, asset quality and/or other matters regarding or affecting PNC that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as "believe," "plan," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "outlook," "estimate," "forecast," "will," "project" and other similar words and expressions. Forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We do not assume any duty and do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements. Actual results or future events could differ, possibly materially, from those that we anticipated in our forward-looking statements, and future results could differ materially from our historical performance.
Our forward-looking statements are subject to the following principal risks and uncertainties. We provide greater detail regarding some of these factors in our first quarter 2009 Form 10-Q, including in the Risk Factors and Risk Management sections of that report, and in our other SEC filings, including our 2008 Form 10-K. Our forward-looking statements may also be subject to other risks and uncertainties, including those that we may discuss elsewhere in this news release or in our filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on or through our corporate website at www.pnc.com/secfilings. We have included these web addresses as inactive textual references only. Information on these websites is not part of this document.
 
 
 
 
PNC Raises More Than $600 Million In Common Equity
Through At-The-Market Issuance  Page 3
 
In addition, our recent acquisition of National City Corporation ("National City") presents us with a number of risks and uncertainties related both to the acquisition transaction itself and to the integration of the acquired businesses into PNC. These risks and uncertainties include the following:
 
In addition to the National City transaction, we grow our business from time to time by acquiring other financial services companies. Acquisitions in general present us with risks, in addition to those presented by the nature of the business acquired, similar to some or all of those described above relating to the National City acquisition.


