FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20090122085007.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 21, 2009, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ("the Corporation") issued a press release with preliminary information regarding the Corporation's 2008 earnings and impact of the National City acquisition. A copy of the Corporation's press release is included in this Report as Exhibit 99.1 and is furnished herewith.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
PITTSBURGH, Jan. 21, 2009  The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (NYSE: PNC) today announced that it expects to report a profit for full year 2008. PNC also announced it expects to report a loss for the fourth quarter due to integration costs, including an additional provision for credit losses related to National City Corporation substantially below the previously disclosed estimate. Excluding these integration costs, PNC expects to report a meaningful profit for the fourth quarter but below the company's expectations primarily due to legacy PNC provision for credit losses of approximately $450 million to $500 million and market-related impairments. PNC acquired National City on Dec. 31, 2008.
Credit quality migration accelerated in the fourth quarter of 2008 in the rapidly weakening economy. However, credit coverage ratios as of Dec. 31, 2008 are expected to improve significantly compared to the prior quarter as a result of fair value adjustments on the acquired loan portfolio and the provision for credit losses in excess of net charge-offs.
Additionally, PNC expects to report a significantly strengthened capital position. The estimated Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio is expected to be in the range of 9.5 to 10 percent at Dec. 31, 2008. Under the regulatory definition, the combination of National City with PNC was well-capitalized at year end without giving effect to the TARP Capital Purchase Program issuance as purchase accounting fair value adjustments are well within the company's previously disclosed expectations. PNC issued $7.6 billion of preferred stock and a warrant to the U.S. Department of the Treasury in accordance with the TARP Program on Dec. 31, 2008. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the impact of widening credit spreads on accumulated other comprehensive loss negatively impacted PNC's tangible common equity ratio, which is expected to be in the range of 2.5 to 3 percent. PNC continues to believe it has a well diversified, high-quality securities portfolio. The tangible common equity ratio at Dec. 31, 2008, excluding the accumulated other comprehensive loss, is expected to be approximately 4 percent.
As a result of its strengthened capital and liquidity, PNC does not expect at this time to request additional capital under the TARP Capital Purchase Program or issue additional common shares. On Jan. 8, 2009, the PNC board of directors declared a quarterly common stock cash dividend of 66 cents per share consistent with the previous quarter.
Furthermore, the two-year integration of National City continues as planned and the benefits of the acquisition are expected to exceed PNC's initial expectations.
 
PNC Reports Preliminary 2008 Earnings and Impact of National City Acquisition  Page 2
 
PNC expects to issue financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2008 on Tuesday, Feb. 3, 2009. PNC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer James E. Rohr and Chief Financial Officer Richard J. Johnson will hold a conference call for investors the same day at 9 a.m. (EST).
Live webcast and telephone conference options will be available.
 
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (www.pnc.com) is one of the nation's largest diversified financial services organizations providing retail and business banking; specialized services for corporations and government entities, including corporate banking, real estate finance and asset-based lending; wealth management; asset management and global fund services.
C S R F-L I
AUTIONARY
TATEMENT
EGARDING
ORWARD
OOKING
NFORMATION
We make statements in this news release, and we may from time to time make other statements, regarding our outlook or expectations for earnings, revenues, expenses and/or other matters regarding or affecting PNC that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "outlook," "estimate," "forecast," "will," "project" and other similar words and expressions.
Forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We do not assume any duty and do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements. Because forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions and uncertainties, actual results or future events could differ, possibly materially, from those that we anticipated in our forward-looking statements, and future results could differ materially from our historical performance.
Our forward-looking statements are subject to the following principal risks and uncertainties. We provide greater detail regarding some of these factors in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and our 2008 Form 10-Qs, including in the Risk Factors and Risk Management sections of those reports, and in our other SEC reports. Our forward-looking statements may also be subject to other risks and uncertainties, including those that we may discuss elsewhere in this news release or in our filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on or through our corporate website at www.pnc.com/secfilings. We have included these web addresses as inactive textual references only. Information on these websites is not part of this document.
 
 
 
PNC Reports Preliminary 2008 Earnings and Impact of National City Acquisition  Page 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PNC Reports Preliminary 2008 Earnings and Impact of National City Acquisition  Page 4
 
In addition, our recent acquisition of National City Corporation ("National City") presents us with a number of risks and uncertainties related both to the acquisition transaction itself and to the integration of the acquired businesses into PNC. These risks and uncertainties include the following:
 
 
 
 
In addition to the National City transaction, we grow our business from time to time by acquiring other financial services companies. Acquisitions in general present us with risks, in addition to those presented by the nature of the business acquired, similar to some or all of those described above relating to the National City acquisition


