FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20100503164833.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Director Compensation Review
On April 27, 2010, the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. met and conducted its annual review of compensation for the Board's non-employee directors. The Committee reviewed a report on director compensation prepared by Towers Watson, a compensation consulting firm, and the recommendations contained in that report.
In undertaking this annual review, the Committee's primary objectives were to confirm that the director compensation program continued to align business and shareholder interests, to evaluate the competitiveness of the program relative to PNC's peer group, and to identify and respond to changes in director compensation in light of the competitive environment.
Following deliberation and discussion, and consistent with Towers Watson's recommendations, the Committee approved:
 
 
 
In approving this grant, the Committee noted that the Board had previously approved, upon the Committee's recommendation, the termination of the director compensation plan providing for an automatic annual common stock grant to directors. This grant was eliminated beginning in 2010.
The committee made no other changes to the compensation program for non-employee directors.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
An annual meeting of shareholders of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ("PNC") was held on April 27, 2010 for the purpose of considering and acting upon the following matters:
 
 
 
 
 
 
As of February 12, 2010, the record date for the annual meeting, there were 517,771,886 eligible votes and approximately 449,977,426 votes counted toward a quorum at the meeting.
The final voting results for each proposal, including the votes for and against, and any abstentions or broker non-votes, are described below. For beneficial owners holding PNC shares at a bank or brokerage institution, a "broker non-vote" occurred if the owner failed to give voting instructions, and the bank or broker was otherwise restricted under NYSE regulations from voting on the owner's behalf.
Item 1Election of Directors
The PNC shareholders . For each nominee, the votes cast for and against, as well as the abstentions and broker non-votes, were as follows:
elected all 17 nominees for director
 
Item 2Ratification of Auditors
The PNC shareholders the ratification of the Audit Committee's selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as PNC's independent registered public accounting firm for 2010. The votes cast for and against this proposal, as well as the abstentions, were as follows:
approved
 
Item 3Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation ("Say on Pay")
The PNC shareholders the advisory vote on the compensation of the PNC executive officers named in the proxy statement for the 2010 annual meeting of shareholders. The advisory resolution approved by the shareholders is also referred to as "say on pay". The votes cast for and against this proposal, as well as the abstentions, were as follows:
approved
 
 
Item 4Shareholder Proposal on Severance Agreements
The PNC shareholders the shareholder proposal seeking future shareholder approval of certain severance agreements. The votes cast for and against this proposal, as well as the abstentions and broker non-votes, were as follows:
approved
 
Item 5Shareholder Proposal on Tax Deductibility Disclosure
The PNC shareholders the shareholder proposal seeking additional disclosure on the tax deductibility of certain compensation. The votes cast for and against this proposal, as well as the abstentions and broker non-votes, were as follows:
did not approve
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


