FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20100115152334.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registration Statements on Form S-3 previously filed by The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (the "Corporation") expired on January 11, 2010. The Corporation is filing new Registration Statements on Form S-3 on the date hereof to replace the expired Registration Statements. As required by Regulation S-X of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") in connection with the new Registration Statements, the Corporation is filing this Current Report on Form 8-K to provide an unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement of the Corporation and National City Corporation ("National City") for the year ended December 31, 2008 as attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The Corporation acquired National City effective December 31, 2008 and previously disclosed an unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement of the Corporation and National City for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 in a Form S-4 Registration Statement as filed with the SEC on November 21, 2008.
 
 
The exhibit listed on the Exhibit Index accompanying this Form 8-K is filed herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
On December 31, 2008, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ("PNC") acquired National City Corporation ("National City") for approximately $6.1 billion. The total consideration included approximately $5.6 billion of PNC common stock, representing approximately 95 million shares, $150 million of preferred stock, and cash of $379 million paid to warrant holders by National City.
National City, based in Cleveland, Ohio, was one of the nation's largest financial services companies. At December 31, 2008, prior to our acquisition, National City had total assets of approximately $153 billion and total deposits of approximately $101 billion. National City operated through an extensive network in Ohio, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Missouri, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin and also conducted selected consumer lending businesses and other financial services on a nationwide basis. Its primary businesses included commercial and retail banking, mortgage financing and servicing, consumer finance and asset management. The primary reasons for the merger with National City were to enhance shareholder value, to improve PNC's competitive position in the financial services industry and to further expand PNC's existing branch network in states where it already operated as well as expanding into new markets.
This acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The purchase price was allocated to the National City assets acquired and liabilities assumed using their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date, December 31, 2008. As the acquisition of National City occurred on December 31, 2008, no results of operations of National City were included in PNC's Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended December 31, 2008, as included in PNC's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 2, 2009.
Following the closing on December 31, 2008, PNC received $7.6 billion from the US Department of the Treasury ("US Treasury") under the Troubled Asset Relief Program ("TARP") Capital Purchase Program in exchange for the issuance of preferred securities and a warrant to purchase approximately 17 million shares of PNC common stock.
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement combines the results of operations of PNC and its subsidiaries and of National City and its subsidiaries as if the acquisition had been completed as of January 1, 2008. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement also reflects as of January 1, 2008, the receipt of $7.6 billion from the US Treasury in exchange for the issuance of preferred securities and a warrant to purchase PNC common stock under TARP.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement included herein is presented for informational purposes only and does not necessarily reflect the financial results of the combined companies had the companies actually been combined at the beginning of the period presented. This information also does not reflect the benefits of the expected cost savings and expense efficiencies, opportunities to earn additional revenue, potential impacts of current market conditions on revenues, or asset dispositions, among other factors, and includes various estimates and may not necessarily be indicative of the financial results of operations that would have occurred if the merger had been consummated at the beginning of the period indicated or which may be attained in the future. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement and accompanying notes have been derived from and should be read in conjunction with and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the consolidated financial statements included in PNC's Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 15, 2010, which updated the consolidated financial statements included in PNC's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 as further described in that Form 8-K, including the retroactive adoption of SFAS 160, (FASB ASC 810-10, "Consolidation"), and FSP EITF 03-06-1, (FASB ASC 260-10, "Earnings Per Share").
"Accounting and Reporting of Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51"
"Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities"
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Income Statement
Year Ended December 31, 2008
 
See accompanying Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Income Statement.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.
Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Income Statement
Note 1  Basis of Presentation:
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement has been prepared giving effect to the merger involving PNC and National City and the issuance of the preferred securities and warrant to purchase PNC common stock to the US Treasury as if the transactions had occurred as of January 1, 2008. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement is presented for illustrative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations had the merger and the issuance of the preferred securities and warrant to purchase PNC common stock to the US Treasury been consummated at January 1, 2008, nor is it necessarily indicative of the results of operations in subsequent periods of the combined entities. Certain National City financial information has been reclassified to conform to the PNC presentation.
Note 2  Estimated Annual Cost Savings and Merger and Integration Costs:
National City was one of the nation's largest commercial banking organizations based on assets. The transaction is expected to result in the reduction of $1.5 billion of combined company annualized noninterest expense through the elimination of operational and administrative redundancies.
PNC also expects to incur total merger and integration costs of approximately $1.2 billion pretax in connection with the acquisition of National City, including $575 million recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008. The $575 million recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008 included a conforming adjustment to our provision for credit losses of $504 million and other integration costs of $71 million.
These cost savings and merger and integration costs, except for the $575 million of merger and integration costs recognized in the fourth quarter 2008, are not reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement. Although management anticipates such integration costs and cost savings will occur, there is risk that these integration costs and cost savings will not be achieved at the projected levels. To the extent there are merger and integration costs associated with these actions, the costs will be recorded based on the nature and timing of these integration actions as they are incurred.
Note 3  Pro Forma Adjustments:
The pro forma adjustments include the effect of the net amortization/accretion of purchase accounting fair value adjustments based on the asset and liability valuations as of the acquisition date. They also reflect the receipt of $7.6 billion from the sale of preferred securities and issuance of a warrant to the US Treasury to purchase approximately 17 million shares of PNC common stock.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 4  Pro Forma (Loss) Per Share:
The pro forma combined basic (loss) per share is calculated using the two-class method to determine income attributable to common shareholders. The pro forma combined diluted (loss) per share takes into consideration common stock equivalents of PNC and National City. Amounts are as follows:
 
Note: National City options converted to PNC options were not included in the calculation of diluted (loss) per common share because the exercise price was higher than the market price (antidilutive).
 
 
 
 


