FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20101112115239.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 5, 2010, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. issued a press release announcing the results of its solicitation of consents from the holders of its 6
 7
/
8
% Subordinated Notes due May 15, 2019 to terminate certain replacement capital covenants described in the consent solicitation statement. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
CONTACTS:
MEDIA:
Fred Solomon
(412) 762-4550
corporate.communications@pnc.com
INVESTORS:
William H. Callihan
(412) 762-8257
investor.relations@pnc.com
PITTSBURGH, Nov. 5, 2010  The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (NYSE: PNC) announced today the results of its solicitation of consents (the "Consent Solicitation") from holders of its 6 7/8 percent Subordinated Notes due May 15, 2019 (the "Notes") to terminate the Replacement Capital Covenants (the "RCCs") relating to the Notes, which was commenced on Oct. 22, 2010. The termination of the RCCs requires the consent of the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes.
The Consent Solicitation expired at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on Thursday, Nov. 4, 2010 (the "Expiration Time"). As of the Expiration Time, PNC had received the consent of holders of a majority of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the Notes. Holders of the Notes who validly delivered and did not validly revoke their consents prior to the Expiration Time will receive the Consent Fee specified in the Consent Solicitation Statement and Letter of Consent, which were distributed in connection with the Consent Solicitation. PNC expects to make payment to consenting holders on or about Monday, Nov. 8, 2010. The Company has executed a termination of each of the RCCs as described in the Consent Solicitation Statement and Letter of Consent which will become operative pursuant to the terms of the Consent Solicitation.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (www.pnc.com) is one of the nation's largest diversified financial services organizations providing retail and business banking; residential mortgage banking; specialized services for corporations and government entities, including corporate banking, real estate finance and asset-based lending; wealth management and asset management. Follow on Twitter for breaking news, updates and announcements from PNC.
@PNCNews


