FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20100907170941.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.02(c).
On September 7, 2010, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. issued a press release announcing that Senior Vice Chairman William S. Demchak was assuming supervisory responsibility for all PNC businesses, including the Asset Management Group and Retail Banking. Mr. Demchak will retain his current responsibilities for Corporate & Institutional Banking and Asset & Liability Management.
The information required by Items 401(b), (d) and (e) and 404(a) of Regulation S-K is incorporated by reference to PNC's proxy statement for its 2010 annual meeting of shareholders.
A copy of the press release is included in this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
9.01(d).
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
CONTACTS:
:
MEDIA
Fred Solomon
(412) 762-4550
corporate.communications@pnc.com
:
INVESTORS
William H. Callihan
(412) 762-8257
investor.relations@pnc.com
PITTSBURGH, Sept. 7, 2010  The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (NYSE: PNC) announced today that Senior Vice Chairman William S. Demchak will assume supervisory responsibility for all PNC businesses, including the Asset Management Group and Retail Banking. He will retain his current responsibilities for Corporate & Institutional Banking and Asset & Liability Management. PNC President Joseph C. Guyaux and Executive Vice President Robert Q. Reilly continue in their current roles as heads of Retail Banking and the Asset Management Group, respectively.
"Bill led PNC's Corporate & Institutional Banking business to record earnings and outstanding customer growth since moving into his current role in 2005. He has the knowledge, experience and leadership skills to meet the challenges of an increasingly competitive and highly regulated industry," said PNC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer James E. Rohr. "In this expanded role, I expect him to help further grow and differentiate PNC from its peers."
Demchak joined PNC in 2002 as vice chairman and chief financial officer. In 2005, he was named head of Corporate & Institutional Banking. He was promoted to senior vice chairman in 2009. Before joining PNC, he served as the global head of Structured Finance and Credit Portfolio for JP Morgan Chase.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (www.pnc.com) is one of the nation's largest diversified financial services organizations providing retail and business banking; residential mortgage banking; specialized services for corporations and government entities, including corporate banking, real estate finance and asset-based lending; wealth management and asset management. Follow on Twitter for breaking news, updates and announcements from PNC.
@PNCNews


