FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20100202163130.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
On February 2, 2010, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ("PNC") issued a press release, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, announcing that it plans to repay the entire investment (of approximately $7.6 billion) provided to PNC under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, that it plans to offer $3.0 billion of its common stock and that it has signed a definitive agreement to sell PNC Global Investment Servicing. In addition, certain presentation materials relating to PNC's February 2, 2010 conference call to discuss the foregoing are attached as Exhibit 99.2.
The information furnished in this Item 7.01 is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such document.
 
The information described in Item 7.01 above is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index accompanying this Form 8-K are furnished herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
PITTSBURGH, Feb. 2, 2010  The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (NYSE: PNC) today announced that it reached an agreement with its banking regulators and the U.S. Treasury permitting it to redeem the $7.6 billion of preferred shares held by the U.S. Treasury under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) Capital Purchase Program. PNC also announced plans to offer $3.0 billion of its common stock. The common stock offering and the previously announced plan to sell PNC Global Investment Servicing, Inc. are part of the agreement. Additionally, PNC plans to offer senior notes to provide additional liquidity in connection with the redemption.
As previously announced, PNC signed a definitive agreement to sell PNC Global Investment Servicing, a leading provider of global fund processing products and services, to BNY Mellon (NYSE: BK) for $2.3 billion in cash. The transaction is currently anticipated to close in the third quarter of 2010, subject to regulatory approvals and certain other closing conditions. Upon completion of the sale, PNC expects to report an after-tax gain of approximately $.5 billion and an increase in Tier 1 common capital of approximately $1.6 billion after the release of capital of $1.1 billion primarily related to goodwill and other intangible assets.
The completion of the sale of PNC Global Investment Servicing, the proposed offering of common stock and the redemption of the TARP preferred shares are estimated to result in a net increase of approximately $4.3 billion in Tier 1 common capital. As a result, on a pro forma basis at December 31, 2009, PNC's Tier 1 common capital ratio would have increased by approximately 200 basis points to an estimated 8.0 percent and the Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio would have been an estimated 10.3 percent.
"With signs of an improving economic environment and stabilizing financial system, we believe now is the appropriate time for us to redeem the preferred shares held by the U.S. Treasury. As a result, we are pleased to have reached an agreement with our regulators to return the taxpayers' investment in PNC," said James E. Rohr, chairman and chief executive officer. "These strategic actions are expected to improve the quality of our capital and position us for further growth. Collectively, we believe these actions are in the best interests of our shareholders, customers and employees."
PNC to Repay TARP Preferred Shares Page 2
Subject to market conditions, PNC plans to offer senior notes in an aggregate amount of $1.5 billion to $2.0 billion. The debt offering is expected to provide additional parent company liquidity in connection with the redemption of the TARP preferred shares, which is anticipated to occur during February 2010.
Upon redemption of the TARP preferred shares, an unaccreted original issuance discount, which was $250 million at December 31, 2009, will reduce net income attributable to common shareholders and earnings per share, but not net income. A warrant issued in connection with the TARP preferred shares under the TARP Capital Purchase Program will continue to be held by the U.S. Treasury. The warrant enables the U.S. Treasury to purchase up to approximately 16.9 million shares of PNC common stock at an exercise price of $67.33 per share until its expiration on December 31, 2018. To the extent the PNC Global Investment Servicing transaction has not been completed by November 1, 2010, PNC agreed with its regulators that it would raise additional common equity in an amount between approximately $700 million and $1.6 billion either through the sale of other assets or the issuance of additional common stock.
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated will act as joint bookrunning managers for the $3.0 billion common stock offering. In connection with the proposed offering, the underwriters are expected to be granted an over-allotment option to buy up to an additional approximately $450 million of common stock, exercisable within 30 days from the date of the offering.
PNC has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) (File No. 333-164364) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents PNC has filed with the SEC for more complete information about PNC and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, copies of the prospectus may be obtained from J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. toll free at (866) 803-9204 or Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated toll free at (800) 718-1649.
This news release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
 
PNC to Repay TARP Preferred Shares Page 3
CONFERENCE CALL AND SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
PNC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer James E. Rohr and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Richard J. Johnson will hold a conference call for investors today at 5:15 p.m. Eastern Time regarding these announcements. Dial-in numbers for the conference call are (800) 990-2718 or (706) 643-0187 (international), conference ID 54701630. The related presentation slides to accompany the conference call remarks may be found at www.pnc.com/investorevents.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (www.pnc.com) is one of the nation's largest diversified financial services organizations providing retail and business banking; residential mortgage banking; specialized services for corporations and government entities, including corporate banking, real estate finance and asset-based lending; wealth management; asset management and global fund services. The information contained on the PNC Web site is not a part of this news release.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information
We make statements in this news release and in the conference call regarding this news release, and we may from time to time make other statements, regarding our outlook or expectations for earnings, revenues, expenses, capital levels, liquidity levels, asset quality and/or other matters regarding or affecting PNC that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as "believe," "plan," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "outlook," "estimate," "forecast," "will," "project" and other similar words and expressions. Forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We do not assume any duty and do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements. Actual results or future events could differ, possibly materially, from those that we anticipated in our forward-looking statements, and future results could differ materially from our historical performance.
Our forward-looking statements are subject to the following principal risks and uncertainties. We provide greater detail regarding some of these factors in our 2008 Form 10-K and 2009 Form 10-Qs, including in the Risk Factors and Risk Management sections of those reports, and in our other SEC filings. Our forward-looking statements may also be subject to other risks and uncertainties, including those that we may discuss elsewhere in this news release or in our filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on or through our corporate website at www.pnc.com/secfilings. We have included these web addresses as inactive textual references only. Information on these websites is not part of this document.
PNC to Repay TARP Preferred Shares Page 4
 
In addition, our acquisition of National City Corporation ("National City") on December 31, 2008 presents us with a number of risks and uncertainties related both to the acquisition itself and to the integration of the acquired businesses into PNC. These risks and uncertainties include the following:
In addition to the National City transaction, we grow our business from time to time by acquiring other financial services companies. Acquisitions in general present us with risks, in addition to those presented by the nature of the business acquired, similar to some or all of those described above relating to the National City acquisition.



