FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20111019133438.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 19, 2011, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ("the Corporation") issued a press release and held a conference call for investors regarding the Corporation's earnings and business results for the third quarter and first nine months of 2011. The Corporation also provided supplementary financial information on its web site, including financial information disclosed in connection with its press release, and provided electronic presentation slides on its web site used in connection with the related investor conference call. Copies of the supplementary financial information and electronic presentation slides are included in this Report as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are furnished herewith.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
The information contained in this Financial Supplement is preliminary, unaudited and based on data available on October 19, 2011. We have reclassified certain prior period amounts to be consistent with the current period presentation, which we believe is more meaningful to readers of our consolidated financial statements. This information speaks only as of the particular date or dates included in the schedules. We do not undertake any obligation to, and disclaim any duty to, correct or update any of the information provided in this Financial Supplement. Our future financial performance is subject to risks and uncertainties as described in our United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings.
BUSINESS
PNC is one of the largest diversified financial services companies in the United States and is headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. PNC has businesses engaged in retail banking, corporate and institutional banking, asset management, and residential mortgage banking, providing many of its products and services nationally and others in PNC's primary geographic markets located in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Maryland, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Florida, Virginia, Missouri, Delaware, Washington, D.C., and Wisconsin. PNC also provides certain products and services internationally.
PENDING ACQUISITION OF RBC BANK (USA)
On June 19, 2011, PNC entered into a definitive agreement to acquire RBC Bank (USA), the US retail banking subsidiary of Royal Bank of Canada. RBC Bank (USA) has approximately $25 billion of assets and 424 branches in North Carolina, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Virginia, and South Carolina. The transaction is expected to add approximately $19 billion of deposits and $16 billion of loans to PNC's Consolidated Balance Sheet and to close in March 2012, subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals.
PENDING ACQUISITION OF BRANCHES FROM FLAGSTAR BANK, FSB
On July 26, 2011, PNC signed a definitive agreement to acquire 27 branches in metropolitan Atlanta, Georgia from Flagstar Bank, FSB, a subsidiary of Flagstar Bancorp, Inc., and assume approximately $240 million of deposits. The transaction is expected to close in December 2011, subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals.
 
(Unaudited)
Consolidated Income Statement
 
 
 
 
(Unaudited)
Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
 
 
(Unaudited) (a)
Average Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
 
 
(Unaudited) (Continued) (a)
Average Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
 
(Unaudited)
Supplemental Average Balance Sheet Information
Deposits and Common Shareholders' Equity
 
 
(Unaudited) (a)
Details of Net Interest Margin
 
 
 
The adjustment represents annualized provision for credit losses divided by average interest-earning assets.
(Unaudited)
Selected Consolidated Income Statement Information
 
 
 
(Unaudited)
Details of Loans
 
(Unaudited)
Details of Loans Held for Sale
 
(Unaudited)
Net Unfunded Commitments
 
 
(Unaudited)
Allowances for Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit
Change in Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses
 
Change in Allowance for Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit
 
 
(Unaudited)
Purchase Accounting Accretion and Accretable Net Interest
Total Purchase Accounting Accretion
 
Total Remaining Purchase Accounting Accretion
 
Accretable Net Interest - Purchased Impaired Loans
 
Valuation of Purchased Impaired Loans
 
 
(Unaudited)
Details of Nonperforming Assets
Nonperforming Assets by Type
 
 
 
(Unaudited)
Details of Nonperforming Assets and Troubled Debt Restructurings
Change in Nonperforming Assets
 
Largest Individual Nonperforming Assets at September 30, 2011 (a)
 
 
Troubled Debt Restructurings by Type
 
Loans whose contractual terms have been restructured in a manner which grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties are considered troubled debt restructurings (TDRs). TDRs typically result from our loss mitigation activities and could include rate reductions, principal forgiveness, forbearance and other actions intended to minimize the economic loss and to avoid foreclosure or repossession of collateral. Government insured or guaranteed, held for sale loans, purchased impaired loans and loans accounted for under the fair value option are not classified as TDRs.
 
 
(Unaudited)
Accruing Loans Past Due
(a)
Accruing Loans Past Due 30 to 59 Days
 
 
 
(Unaudited)
Business Segment Descriptions
provides deposit, lending, brokerage, investment management, and cash management services to consumer and small business customers within our primary geographic markets. Our customers are serviced through our branch network, call centers and online banking. The branch network is located primarily in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Maryland, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Florida, Virginia, Missouri, Delaware, Washington, D.C., and Wisconsin.
Retail Banking
provides lending, treasury management, and capital markets-related products and services to mid-sized corporations, government and not-for-profit entities, and selectively to large corporations. Lending products include secured and unsecured loans, letters of credit and equipment leases. Treasury management services include cash and investment management, receivables management, disbursement services, funds transfer services, information reporting, and global trade services. Capital markets-related products and services include foreign exchange, derivatives, loan syndications, mergers and acquisitions advisory and related services to middle-market companies, our multi-seller conduit, securities underwriting, and securities sales and trading. Corporate & Institutional Banking also provides commercial loan servicing, and real estate advisory and technology solutions for the commercial real estate finance industry. Corporate & Institutional Banking provides products and services generally within our primary geographic markets, with certain products and services offered nationally and internationally.
Corporate & Institutional Banking
includes personal wealth management for high net worth and ultra high net worth clients and institutional asset management. Wealth management products and services include financial planning, customized investment management, private banking, tailored credit solutions and trust management and administration for individuals and their families. Institutional asset management provides investment management, custody, and retirement planning services. The institutional clients include corporations, unions, municipalities, non-profits, foundations and endowments located primarily in our geographic footprint.
Asset Management Group
directly originates primarily first lien residential mortgage loans on a nationwide basis with a significant presence within the retail banking footprint, and also originates loans through majority owned affiliates. Mortgage loans represent loans collateralized by one-to-four-family residential real estate. These loans are typically underwritten to government agency and/or third party standards, and sold, servicing retained, to secondary mortgage conduits Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC), Federal Home Loan Banks and third-party investors, or are securitized and issued under the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) program. The mortgage servicing operation performs all functions related to servicing mortgage loans - primarily those in first lien position - for various investors and for loans owned by PNC. Certain loans originated through majority owned affiliates are sold to others.
Residential Mortgage Banking
includes commercial residential development loans, cross-border leases, consumer brokered home equity loans, retail mortgages, non-prime mortgages, and residential construction loans. These loans require special servicing and management oversight given current market conditions. We obtained the majority of these loans through acquisitions of other companies.
Distressed Assets Portfolio
is the largest publicly traded investment management firm in the world. BlackRock manages assets on behalf of institutional and individual investors worldwide through a variety of equity, fixed income, multi-asset class, alternative and cash management separate accounts and funds, including iShares, the global product leader in exchange-traded funds. In addition, BlackRock provides market risk management, financial markets advisory and enterprise investment system services globally to a broad base of clients. At September 30, 2011, our economic interest in BlackRock was 21%.
BlackRock
 
(Unaudited) (a) (b)
Summary of Business Segment Income and Revenue
 
 
 
The period end employee statistics for the businesses reflect staff directly employed by the respective business, and exclude operations, technology and staff services employees that may perform services for the business.
 
(Unaudited) (a)
Retail Banking
 
 
 
(Unaudited) (Continued)
Retail Banking
 
 
 
(Unaudited) (a)
Corporate & Institutional Banking
 
 
 
(Unaudited) (a)
Asset Management Group
 
 
 
(Unaudited) (a)
Residential Mortgage Banking
 
 
 
(Unaudited) (a)
Distressed Assets Portfolio
 
 
 
Glossary of Terms
- The excess of cash flows expected to be collected on a purchased impaired loan over the carrying value of the loan. The accretable net interest is recognized into interest income over the remaining life of the loan using the constant effective yield method.
Accretable net interest (Accretable yield)
- Primarily comprised of total average quarterly (or annual) assets plus (less) unrealized losses (gains) on investment securities, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets (net of eligible deferred taxes).
Adjusted average total assets
- Adjusted to reflect a full year of activity.
Annualized
- Assets over which we have sole or shared investment authority for our customers/clients. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Assets under management
- One hundredth of a percentage point.
Basis point
- The net value on the balance sheet which represents the recorded investment less any valuation allowance.
Carrying value of purchased impaired loans
- Cash recoveries used in the context of purchased impaired loans represent cash payments from customers that exceeded the recorded investment of the designated impaired loan.
Cash recoveries
- Process of removing a loan or portion of a loan from our balance sheet because it is considered uncollectible. We also record a charge-off when a loan is transferred from portfolio holdings to held for sale by reducing the loan carrying amount to the fair value of the loan, if fair value is less than carrying amount.
Charge-off
- Common shareholders' equity divided by total assets. Common shareholders' equity equals total shareholders' equity less the liquidation value of preferred stock.
Common shareholders' equity to total assets
- The difference in yield between debt issues of similar maturity. The excess of yield attributable to credit spread is often used as a measure of relative creditworthiness, with a reduction in the credit spread reflecting an improvement in the borrower's perceived creditworthiness.
Credit spread
- Financial contracts whose value is derived from changes in publicly traded securities, interest rates, currency exchange rates or market indices. Derivatives cover a wide assortment of financial contracts, including but not limited to forward contracts, futures, options and swaps.
Derivatives
- An estimate of the rate sensitivity of our economic value of equity. A negative duration of equity is associated with asset sensitivity ( positioned for rising interest rates), while a positive value implies liability sensitivity ( positioned for declining interest rates). For example, if the duration of equity is +1.5 years, the economic value of equity declines by 1.5% for each 100 basis point increase in interest rates.
Duration of equity
i.e.,
i.e.,
- Assets that generate income, which include: Federal funds sold; resale agreements; trading securities; interest-earning deposits with banks; loans held for sale; loans; investment securities; and certain other assets.
Earning assets
- Represents the amount of resources that a business or business segment should hold to guard against potentially large losses that could cause insolvency. It is based on a measurement of economic risk, as opposed to risk as defined by regulatory bodies. The economic capital measurement process involves converting a risk distribution to the capital that is required to support the risk, consistent with our target credit rating. As such, economic risk serves as a "common currency" of risk that allows us to compare different risks on a similar basis.
Economic capital
- A measurement, expressed in years, that, when multiplied by a change in interest rates, would approximate the percentage change in value of on- and off- balance sheet positions.
Effective duration
- Noninterest expense divided by total revenue.
Efficiency
- The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Fair value
 
- A credit bureau-based industry standard score created by Fair Isaac Co. which predicts the likelihood of borrower default. We use FICO scores both in underwriting and assessing credit risk in our consumer lending portfolio. Lower FICO scores indicate likely higher risk of default, while higher FICO scores indicate likely lower risk of default. FICO scores are updated on a periodic basis.
FICO score
- A management accounting methodology designed to recognize the net interest income effects of sources and uses of funds provided by the assets and liabilities of a business segment. We assign these balances LIBOR-based funding rates at origination that represent the interest cost for us to raise/invest funds with similar maturity and repricing structures.
Funds transfer pricing
- Contracts in which the buyer agrees to purchase and the seller agrees to deliver a specific financial instrument at a predetermined price or yield. May be settled either in cash or by delivery of the underlying financial instrument.
Futures and forward contracts
- Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
GAAP
- Collectively, securities available for sale and securities held to maturity.
Investment securities
- Tier 1 risk-based capital divided by adjusted average total assets.
Leverage ratio
- Acronym for London InterBank Offered Rate. LIBOR is the average interest rate charged when banks in the London wholesale money market (or interbank market) borrow unsecured funds from each other. LIBOR rates are used as a benchmark for interest rates on a global basis.
LIBOR
- A calculation of a loan's collateral coverage that is used both in underwriting and assessing credit risk in our lending portfolio. LTV is the sum total of loan obligations secured by collateral divided by the market value of that same collateral. Market values of the collateral are based on an independent valuation of the collateral. For example, an LTV of less than 90% is better secured and has less credit risk than an LTV of greater than or equal to 90%. Our real estate market values are updated on an annual basis but may be updated more frequently for select loans.
Loan-to-value ratio (LTV)
- An estimate of recovery based on collateral type, collateral value, loan exposure, or the guarantor(s) quality and guaranty type (full or partial). Each loan has its own LGD. The LGD risk rating measures the percentage of exposure of a specific credit obligation that we expect to lose if default occurs. LGD is net of recovery, through either liquidation of collateral or deficiency judgments rendered from foreclosure or bankruptcy proceedings. The LGD rating is updated with the same frequency as the borrower's PD rating, and should be done more frequently than the PD if the collateral values and amounts change often.
Loss Given Default (LGD)
- A management accounting assessment, using funds transfer pricing methodology, of the net interest contribution from loans and deposits.
Net interest income from loans and deposits
- Annualized taxable-equivalent net interest income divided by average earning assets.
Net interest margin
- Contractually required payments receivable on a purchased impaired loan in excess of the cash flows expected to be collected.
Nonaccretable difference
- Assets we hold for our customers/clients in a non-discretionary, custodial capacity. We do not include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Nondiscretionary assets under administration
- Nonperforming assets include non-accrual loans, certain non-accrual troubled debt restructured loans, OREO, foreclosed and other assets. We do not accrue interest income on assets classified as nonperforming.
Nonperforming assets
- Loans for which we do not accrue interest income. Nonperforming loans include loans to commercial, commercial real estate, equipment lease financing, consumer (including loans and lines of credit secured by residential real estate), and residential real estate (including mortgages and construction) customers as well as certain non-accrual troubled debt restructured loans. Nonperforming loans do not include loans held for sale or OREO and foreclosed assets. Nonperforming loans do not include purchased impaired loans as we are currently accreting interest income over the expected life of the loans.
Nonperforming loans
- A number of currency units, shares, or other units specified in a derivative contract.
Notional amount
- The period to period dollar or percentage change in total revenue (GAAP basis) less the dollar or percentage change in noninterest expense. A positive variance indicates that revenue growth exceeded expense growth ( positive operating leverage) while a negative variance implies expense growth exceeded revenue growth ( negative operating leverage).
Operating leverage
i.e.,
i.e.,
 
- Foreclosed assets taken in settlement of troubled loans through surrender or foreclosure. Foreclosed assets include all assets received in full or partial satisfaction of a loan and include real and personal property, equity interests in corporations, partnerships, joint ventures, and beneficial interests in trusts. Premises that are no longer used in operations may also be included in real estate owned.
Other real estate owned (OREO)
- When the fair value of a security is less than its amortized cost basis, an assessment is performed to determine whether the impairment is other-than-temporary. If we intend to sell the security or more likely than not will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis less any current-period credit loss, an other-than-temporary impairment is considered to have occurred. In such cases, an other-than-temporary impairment is recognized in earnings equal to the entire difference between the investment's amortized cost basis and its fair value at the balance sheet date. Further, if we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost of the security, an other-than-temporary impairment is considered to have occurred. However for debt securities, if we do not intend to sell the security and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before its recovery, the other-than-temporary loss is separated into (a) the amount representing the credit loss, and (b) the amount related to all other factors. The other-than-temporary impairment related to credit losses is recognized in earnings while the amount related to all other factors is recognized in other comprehensive income, net of tax.
Other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI)
- Liquid assets divided by funding obligations within a two year period.
Parent company liquidity coverage
- Income from continuing operations before income taxes and noncontrolling interests.
Pretax earnings
- Total revenue less noninterest expense, both from continuing operations.
Pretax, pre-provision earnings from continuing operations
- An internal risk rating that indicates the likelihood that a credit obligor will enter into default status.
Probability of Default (PD)
- Net interest margin less the ratio of the annualized provision for credit losses to average interest-earning assets.
Provision-adjusted net interest margin
- Accretion of the discounts and premiums on acquired assets and liabilities. The purchase accounting accretion is recognized in net interest income over the weighted average life of the financial instruments using the constant effective yield method.
Purchase accounting accretion
- Acquired loans determined to be credit impaired under FASB ASC 310-30 (AICPA SOP 03-3). Loans are determined to be impaired if there is evidence of credit deterioration since origination and for which it is probable that all contractually required payments will not be collected.
Purchased impaired loans
- The initial investment of a purchased impaired loan plus interest accretion and less any cash payments and writedowns to date. The recorded investment excludes any valuation allowance which is included in our allowance for loan and lease losses.
Recorded investment
- Cash proceeds received on a loan that we had previously charged off. We credit the amount received to the allowance for loan and lease losses.
Recovery
- Project-specific loans to commercial customers for the construction or development of residential real estate including land, single family homes, condominiums and other residential properties. This would exclude loans to commercial customers where proceeds are for general corporate purposes whether or not such facilities are secured.
Residential development loans
- We have elected to measure acquired or originated residential mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) at fair value under GAAP. We employ a risk management strategy designed to protect the economic value of MSRs from changes in interest rates. This strategy utilizes securities and a portfolio of derivative instruments to hedge changes in the fair value of MSRs arising from changes in interest rates. These financial instruments are expected to have changes in fair value which are negatively correlated to the change in fair value of the MSR portfolio. Net MSR hedge gains/(losses) represent the change in the fair value of MSRs, exclusive of changes due to time decay and payoffs, combined with the change in the fair value of the associated securities and derivative instruments.
Residential mortgage servicing rights hedge gains/(losses), net
- Annualized net income divided by average assets.
Return on average assets
- Annualized net income divided by average capital.
Return on average capital
 
- Annualized net income less preferred stock dividends, including preferred stock discount accretion and redemptions, divided by average common shareholders' equity.
Return on average common shareholders' equity
- Computed by the assignment of specific risk-weights (as defined by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) to assets and off-balance sheet instruments.
Risk-weighted assets
- The process of legally transforming financial assets into securities.
Securitization
- An intangible asset or liability created by an obligation to service assets for others. Typical servicing rights include the right to receive a fee for collecting and forwarding payments on loans and related taxes and insurance premiums held in escrow.
Servicing rights
- The interest income earned on certain assets is completely or partially exempt from Federal income tax. As such, these tax-exempt instruments typically yield lower returns than taxable investments. To provide more meaningful comparisons of yields and margins for all interest-earning assets, we use interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis in calculating average yields and net interest margins by increasing the interest income earned on tax-exempt assets to make it fully equivalent to interest income earned on other taxable investments. This adjustment is not permitted under GAAP on the Consolidated Income Statement.
Taxable-equivalent interest
- Tier 1 risk-based capital, less preferred equity, less trust preferred capital securities, and less noncontrolling interests.
Tier 1 common capital
- Tier 1 common capital divided by period-end risk-weighted assets.
Tier 1 common capital ratio
- Total shareholders' equity, plus trust preferred capital securities, plus certain noncontrolling interests that are held by others; less goodwill and certain other intangible assets (net of eligible deferred taxes relating to taxable and nontaxable combinations), less equity investments in nonfinancial companies less ineligible servicing assets and less net unrealized holding losses on available for sale equity securities. Net unrealized holding gains on available for sale equity securities, net unrealized holding gains (losses) on available for sale debt securities and net unrealized holding gains (losses) on cash flow hedge derivatives are excluded from total shareholders' equity for Tier 1 risk-based capital purposes.
Tier 1 risk-based capital
- Tier 1 risk-based capital divided by period-end risk-weighted assets.
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
- Total shareholders' equity plus noncontrolling interests.
Total equity
- Tier 1 risk-based capital plus qualifying subordinated debt and trust preferred securities, other noncontrolling interest not qualified as Tier 1, eligible gains on available for sale equity securities and the allowance for loan and lease losses, subject to certain limitations.
Total risk-based capital
- Total risk-based capital divided by period-end risk-weighted assets.
Total risk-based capital ratio
- The sum of interest-bearing money market deposits, interest-bearing demand deposits, and noninterest-bearing deposits.
Transaction deposits
- A restructuring of a loan whereby the lender for economic or legal reasons related to the borrower's financial difficulties grants a concession to the borrower that the lender would not otherwise consider.
Troubled debt restructuring
- A list of criticized loans, credit exposure or other assets compiled for internal monitoring purposes. We define criticized exposure for this purpose as exposure with an internal risk rating of other assets especially mentioned, substandard, doubtful or loss.
Watchlist
- A graph showing the relationship between the yields on financial instruments or market indices of the same credit quality with different maturities. For example, a "normal" or "positive" yield curve exists when long-term bonds have higher yields than short-term bonds. A "flat" yield curve exists when yields are the same for short-term and long-term bonds. A "steep" yield curve exists when yields on long-term bonds are significantly higher than on short-term bonds. An "inverted" or "negative" yield curve exists when short-term bonds have higher yields than long-term bonds.
Yield curve



