FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20121009160650.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, dated September 14, 2012 (the "Agreement"), with Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J .P. Morgan Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and PNC Capital Markets LLC (collectively, "Underwriters"), on October 9, 2012, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. issued 1,200,000 Depositary Shares each representing a 1/4,000
th
 ownership interest in a share of 5.375% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series Q (the "Series Q Preferred Stock") in satisfaction of an option granted to the Underwriters in the Agreement to cover over-allotments.
The Depositary Shares and the Series Q Preferred Stock have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, by a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-164364) (the "Registration Statement"). The validity opinion with respect to the Depositary Shares and the Series Q Preferred Stock is being filed with this report and incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement.
 
(d) . The exhibit listed on the Exhibit Index accompanying this Form 8-K is filed herewith.
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 5.1
October 9, 2012
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.
249 Fifth Avenue
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222-2707
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I have acted as counsel to The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (the "Corporation"), in connection with the issuance and sale on October 9, 2012 of 1,200,000 depositary shares (the "Depositary Shares"), with each share representing a 1/4,000th ownership interest in a share of the Corporation's 5.375 % Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series Q, $1.00 par value (the "Preferred Stock"), pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (File No. 333-164364) filed by the Corporation (the "Registration Statement") and the Deposit Agreement, dated as of September 21, 2012, among the Corporation, Computershare Trust Company, N.A., Computershare Inc., and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts described therein (the "Deposit Agreement").
In rendering this opinion, I have examined such corporate records and other documents, and have reviewed such matters of law, as I, or attorneys under my supervision, have deemed necessary or appropriate. In rendering this opinion, I have relied upon oral and written representations of officers of the Corporation and certificates of officers of the Corporation and public officials with respect to the accuracy of the factual matters addressed in such representations and certificates. In addition, in rendering this opinion, I have assumed the genuineness of all signatures or instruments relied upon by me, and the conformity of certified copies submitted to me with the original documents to which such certified copies relate.
I express no opinion as to the laws of any jurisdiction other than the federal laws of the United States and the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Based on and subject to the foregoing, I am of the opinion that (i) the shares of Preferred Stock represented by the Depositary Shares are validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and (ii) the Depositary Shares are validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and the holders of the Depositary Shares are entitled to the rights specified in the Deposit Agreement.
I hereby consent to the filing of a copy of this opinion as Exhibit 5.1 to a Current Report on Form 8-K of the Corporation filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and thereby incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement. In giving such consent, I do not thereby admit that I am in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the rules and regulations thereunder.
 


