FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20120427161859.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Director Compensation Review
On April 24, 2012, the Nominating and Governance Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ("PNC" or the "Corporation") met and conducted its annual review of compensation for the Board's non-employee directors.
In undertaking this annual review, the Committee's primary objectives were to confirm that the director compensation program continued to align business and shareholder interests, to evaluate the competitiveness of the program relative to PNC's peer group, and to identify and respond to changes in director compensation in light of the competitive environment.
Following deliberation and discussion, the Committee approved:
 
The Committee made no other changes to the compensation program for non-employee directors.
Item 5.02(c) Departure of Directors or Certain Executive Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On April 24, 2012, the Board elected William S. Demchak president of PNC and of its principal banking subsidiary, PNC Bank, National Association. Mr. Demchak had been senior vice chairman of PNC since 2009 and since 2010 has held supervisory responsibility for all PNC businesses.
The information required by Items 401(b), (d) and (e) and 404(a) of Regulation S-K is incorporated by reference to PNC's proxy statement for its 2012 annual meeting of shareholders.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
An annual meeting of shareholders of PNC was held on April 24, 2012 for the purpose of considering and acting upon the following matters:
 
 
 
The final voting results for each proposal, as certified by the judge of election for the annual meeting, are described below. Fractional shares have been rounded up to the nearest whole number. For beneficial owners holding PNC shares at a bank or brokerage institution, a "broker non-vote" occurred if the owner failed to give voting instructions, and the bank or broker was otherwise restricted under NYSE regulations from voting on the owner's behalf.
 
 
 
 
 
With respect to all of the preceding matters, holders of our common and voting preferred stock voted together as a single class. The following table sets forth, as of the January 31, 2012 record date, the number of shares of each class or series of stock that were issued and outstanding and entitled to vote, the voting power per share, and the aggregate voting power of each class or series:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


