FILE:PNC/PNC-8K-20120307110403.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 29, 2012, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (the "Corporation") filed the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and posted that 2011 Form 10-K on its website at www.pnc.com/secfilings. On March 7, 2012, the Corporation posted its Chairman's Letter to Shareholders together with the 2011 Form 10-K in the Investor Relations section of its website at www.pnc.com/investorrelations. A copy of this Chairman's Letter to Shareholders is included in this Report as Exhibit 99.1 and is furnished herewith.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information
We make statements in this Report, including in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, and we may from time to time make other statements, regarding our outlook for earnings, revenues, expenses, capital levels and ratios, liquidity levels, asset levels, asset quality and other matters regarding or affecting PNC and its future business and operations that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as "believe," "plan," "expect," "anticipate," "see," "look," "intend," "outlook," "project," "forecast," "estimate," "goal," "will," "should" and other similar words and expressions. Forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. We do not assume any duty and do not undertake to update forward-looking statements. Actual results or future events could differ, possibly materially, from those anticipated in forward-looking statements, as well as from historical performance.
Our forward-looking statements are subject to the following principal risks and uncertainties. We provide greater detail regarding some of these factors in our 2011 Form 10-K, including in the Risk Factors and Risk Management sections of that report. Our forward-looking statements may also be subject to other risks and uncertainties, including those that we may discuss in our other filings with the SEC (accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on or through our corporate website at www.pnc.com/secfilings). We have included web addresses here and elsewhere in this Report as inactive textual references only. Information on these websites is not part of this Report.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
From the Chairman March 7, 2012
To Our Shareholders,
As I think back to the beginning of 2011, it was predicted that banks would be facing an operating environment dominated by low interest rates, slow economic growth and new and challenging regulations. As it turned out, 2011 was all that it was advertised to be... and then some.
PNC Stands Out
Last year we said we would grow the number of customers we serve, manage risk and expenses, and continue to build our already strong capital position. And we succeeded in these turbulent times. By focusing on these strategies, we had a good year in 2011, with net income of $3.1 billion or $5.64 per diluted common share. We believe that our distinctive corporate culture, with its focus on teamwork and executing for all our constituents, drove our success.
 
Banking in a New Environment
As I look at the business world today, there's no doubt that we are experiencing unprecedented change. Less than a decade ago Twitter didn't exist. Neither did Facebook or Skype. Blockbuster was the number one entertainment company in the United States, and Apple was rumored to be on the verge of bankruptcy.
In the banking industry, we are experiencing sweeping changes in customer preferences and almost daily advances in technology. We are operating at a time of historically low interest rates, important new regulations and a challenging political environment.
 
Our capital and liquidity positions are strong. We have a highly competitive set of products and services to meet our customers' needs. Our existing markets are profitable and we are entering new ones that provide the potential for significant growth. And we have outstanding employees who are led by a management team that is committed to delivering for our customers, shareholders and communities.
PNC's performance over time is reflected in our share price. For the last five-year period, we have ranked first in cumulative total shareholder return among our peer banks.* Although our share price declined 5 percent in 2011, the S&P 500 Banks index declined by 12 percent.
While these are good results on a relative basis, no one ever made money on a relative basis. At PNC we manage our business with the goal of creating opportunities for increased shareholder value over the long term.
 
 
 
 
On a relative basis, PNC remains among the best capitalized banks in our peer group. At year end, our Tier 1 common capital ratio was 10.3 percent, more than double what it was at the end of 2008. That capital strength and earnings supported our decision to increase the common stock dividend in the second quarter of 2011, a decision we were pleased to deliver to our shareholders.
 
An important measure of any stock is its tangible book value per share, and PNC's more than doubled from 2007 to the end of 2011. This metric dramatically outperformed the average of our peers during the same period.**
 
Serving More Customers
We had an exceptional year for customer growth in 2011. In our , checking relationships increased by almost 300,000, including some 40,000 from acquisitions. That represents 5 percent growth, which substantially surpassed the 1 percent population increase in our footprint, demonstrating that PNC is winning market share.
Retail Bank
 
At the beginning of 2011, approximately 70 percent of PNC's new checking customers had free checking accounts. By the fourth quarter of 2011, we had flipped the ratio of free checking to relationship checking accounts, with nearly 60 percent of new customers now choosing relationship accounts.
In our , new primary client acquisitions in Corporate Banking were 1,165, an increase of 15 percent over the new primary clients we added in 2010. This marks the second consecutive year we added more than 1,000 new primary clients.
Corporate & Institutional Bank
 
We ranked second in the number of middle market business loans arranged in 2011. As we grow, we see opportunities to lead syndications for larger corporate clients at higher dollar amounts.
New client acquisition in our continued to grow to record levels in 2011, fueled in part by significant increases in referrals from retail branches and corporate bankers. Overall sales were up nearly 40 percent for 2011 compared to 2010, with referral activity representing one-third of the total sales results.
Asset Management Group
Increasing Lending
Our customer growth helped to drive increased lending in 2011. Loan growth accelerated toward the end of the year, with $4.5 billion of the $8.4 billion annual increase occurring in the fourth quarter. Overall, we grew loans by 6 percent during 2011, with gains in commercial loans, indirect auto and education lending.
Growing and Strengthening the Franchise
During 2011 we leveraged our financial performance and resulting capital strength to invest in our businesses. We also announced several strategic acquisitions. These included purchases in greater Tampa, Florida, of 19 branches from BankAtlantic, and 27 branches in the Atlanta area from Flagstar. The acquisition of RBC Bank (USA), the U.S. retail banking operation of the Royal Bank of Canada, closed and converted on March 2 of this year and is expected to be accretive to our 2012 earnings, excluding integration costs.
The RBC transaction added more than 400 Southeastern U.S. branches to PNC's powerful retail franchise. With RBC Bank (USA), PNC has approximately 2,900 branches in 17 states and the District of Columbia. Since the beginning of 2008, this represents an increase of almost 1,800 branches and nine new states.
At PNC, acquisition was only one part of our growth story in 2011. Throughout the year, we continued to add more customers and deepen our relationships with them across our existing footprint, and all of our legacy markets exceeded their sales plans.
To support this growth, we developed innovative products and services focused on the needs of tomorrow's banking and investing clients. We applied an understanding of customer trends  the roughly flat growth of branch and call center activity, the ongoing decline in check writing, the expansion of online and mobile payments, and the increased use of multiple distribution channels  to give customers a top-flight banking experience.
One example, the PNC Virtual Wallet payments platform, has grown rapidly since its introduction more than three years ago. At times in 2011, we added 14,000 new users every
week. More than 750,000 customers now use Virtual Wallet and it represents 50 percent of our new checking relationships.
We followed our Virtual Wallet success with the introduction of bolt-on products to serve distinct customer segments, including students and those who prefer banking on their smart phone device. And in 2011, we introduced PNC Wealth Insight
SM
, a platform that gives investors a snapshot of their net worth at any time. We already have nearly 10,000 customers using it.
Managing Risk
As 2012 begins, the U.S. economy is showing signs of improvement, and we are optimistic about the ongoing recovery, albeit at a deliberate pace. At the same time, we are mindful of the impact that sustained high rates of unemployment and slow GDP growth could have on our business. As a result, credit risk remains a priority for us.
 
We take a similar approach in managing our balance sheet. I am fond of saying that every company will eventually meet its balance sheet. We have met ours, and we like it. Our balance sheet remained highly liquid and core funded with an 85 percent loan-to-deposit ratio at the end of the year.
Looking ahead, we are focused on managing our balance sheet effectively, adding clients that meet our standards for risk-adjusted returns and making enhancements to risk management capabilities and technologies.
While challenges remain, we believe adherence to the risk management principles we have established will continue to serve us well.
Assembling a Strong Team
It takes teamwork to achieve results, and in 2011, our employees were more engaged than ever. We won a "Gallup Great Workplace Award" and were the only U.S. bank to be recognized for this achievement.
Our effort to engage the workforce includes improving diversity at PNC. In 2011, we launched a number of Employee Business Resource Groups  Latino, African-American, Women, and Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgender among them. For the benefit of both employees and customers, we dramatically increased the amount of outreach we do in Spanish.
PNC has continued to hire employees throughout the economic downturn, and we seek top talent at all levels across our franchise. As we begin our recruiting process in the Southeast, we have received more than 10,000 external applications to join our firm in that region.
We also enhanced our management team. We named Joe Guyaux, a 40-year PNC veteran who most recently led Retail Banking, as our chief risk officer. In today's risk environment, we could find
 
no better leader than Joe given his tremendous banking knowledge and his history of excellence in every role he has had at the firm. Neil Hall, who has overseen our retail distribution system since 2005, will now manage Retail Banking. And last year we recruited Mike Lyons to lead our Corporate & Institutional Bank.
Maintaining Our Reputation
Public outreach has helped sustain our reputation as a strong and reliable bank in spite of the difficult environment. In fact earlier this month, we were ranked second on Fortune's list of most-admired companies in the category of superregional banks. Awareness of our brand has been enhanced since the beginning of the Achievement advertising campaign in 2010, rising from 57 percent to 74 percent today.
A good reputation could not be more important in this environment, and while our reputation is solid, the industry as a whole is under intense scrutiny. Trust has plummeted from about 70 percent of the public saying they had confidence in financial services companies in 2008 to about 25 percent in 2011.
PNC is working to restore confidence in America's financial institutions. We have joined with others to form the Partnership for a Secure Financial Future. The Partnership is committed to raising awareness of the vital role the financial services industry plays in growing the nation's economy, creating new jobs and supporting small businesses.
Similarly, PNC has committed to renewed efforts at the state and local level that have enhanced coordination between PNC and community leaders working on topics such as economic development and mortgage servicing practices.
 
Importantly, we met our original $100 million goal for Grow Up Great by mid-2011, two years earlier than expected. In just eight years, we have helped more than a million children under age five prepare for school and life. We followed that success by expanding Grow Up Great in 2011. Today, this is a $350 million initiative that will also kick off in the Southeast as PNC builds its presence there.
 
New Challenges and New Opportunities
This year will bring new challenges and a continuation of some past ones. The Federal Open Market Committee has signaled low interest rates into 2014. An already difficult political climate will feature a highly contentious presidential election. The economic outlook is for a modest recovery, but that depends on events over which we have little or no control. From the European debt crisis to American consumers' worries about jobs and housing, the dangers are many. In this environment, all banks will be challenged.
 
regulatory expenses, reduced fees and low rates. This environment also affects global banks, which are facing higher capital requirements along with regulations that will limit some business activities.
For large regional banks like PNC, regulatory changes represent a considerable work set, but we believe it is manageable. We must move forward to seize this moment, execute on our priorities and continue to build our business. Five years from now, we want to look back at this moment and say: We saw the opportunity and we made the most of it.
There is no magic formula to make the industry's challenges disappear. At PNC, we believe our effective leadership team, focus on more and deeper customer relationships, strong risk and expense management, and a solid reputation for acting in our customers' best interests remain the best strategy.
In difficult times, it is important to take the long view, and that is something we have always done at PNC. This year marks our 160th as PNC traces its roots to 1852, when the Pittsburgh Trust Company opened near Fifth Avenue and Wood Street, the same corner where our headquarters stands today. More than a century and a half later, PNC remains committed to helping businesses and consumers achieve their goals.
We are proud of our company's performance in 2011 and are confident that our best days lie ahead as we continue to build a great company. As it has for the last 160 years, you can expect PNC to deliver for our customers, shareholders, employees and communities.
 
 
 


