FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20030624104555.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Item 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(c) The following exhibits are being furnished as part of this Form 8-K:
Item 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Release Nos. 33-8216 and 34-47583, the following information, which is intended to be furnished under Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition," is instead being furnished under Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure." This information, including exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On June 23, 2003, Walgreen Co. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended May 31, 2003. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
In addition to the issuance of a press release, Walgreen Co. also conducted a webcast and posted certain financial statements on its website regarding results for the quarter ended May 31, 2003. A transcript of this webcast is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2, and the financial statements are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 23, 2003

 
DEERFIELD, Ill., June 23, 2003  Walgreen Co. (NYSE: WAG) today announced record sales and earnings for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2003.
Net earnings for the quarter ended May 31 were up 14.3 percent to $296.1 million or 29 cents per share (diluted), from $259.0 million or 25 cents per share (diluted) in the same quarter a year ago. This year's third quarter benefited from a $13.6 million LIFO swing, as the company recorded a $9 million LIFO charge this quarter versus a $22.6 million LIFO charge in the year ago period, reflecting less than anticipated inflation in inventories. The quarter also was aided by a $12 million litigation settlement credit this year.
Net earnings for the nine months climbed 16.5 percent to $898.6 million or 87 cents per share (diluted). Excluding gains of $29.0 million this year and $5.5 million last year from litigation settlements, earnings for the nine months rose 14.6 percent to $880.5 million or 85 cents per share from last year's $768.0 million or 74 cents per share.
Sales increased 12.6 percent to a record $8.3 billion for the third quarter and 13.1 percent to $24.3 billion for the first nine months. Total sales in comparable stores (those open more than a year) were up 8.2 percent in the quarter.
Prescriptions, which accounted for 63 percent of sales in the quarter, climbed 15.5 percent. Prescription sales in comparable stores rose 11.5 percent in the quarter. Third party plans now account for 91 percent of all prescription sales.
"We registered good earnings overall, especially in this tough retail environment. But our operating results were below our plan," said Chairman and CEO David Bernauer. "While several temporary factors influenced this quarter's results, they haven't dampened our enthusiasm for the future."
Third quarter selling, general and administrative costs increased 66 basis points over the previous year, from 20.59 to 21.25 as a percent to sales. This increase was mostly offset by a 59 basis point increase in the quarter's gross profit margin, which was 26.78 as a percent to sales versus last year's 26.19.
Third quarter pharmacy margins faced a difficult comparison to the year ago period, when several blockbuster generic drugs boosted gross profit margins. Those margins will be comparable as of the fourth quarter.
Bernauer also pointed out the 12.6 percent sales increase wasn't enough to offset increased store costs, including payroll. "A major contributor to those payroll costs is the nearly 25 percent increase in our 24-hour store base over the past year," Bernauer said. "We now have 1,049 locations open 24 hours. This is expensive, but it's an important part of our convenience strategy for both today and the future. We won't sacrifice our long-term strategy to meet quarterly expectations. We're focused on the years ahead, which look very bright, and we believe we're the best-positioned drugstore chain for that future."
The coming years promise to be a high growth period for pharmacy because of:
Favorable demographics.
More generic drugs becoming available.
New medications under development by drug manufacturers.
New classes of drugs being researched, including molecular entities and biologics.
A Medicare prescription drug benefit that should increase drug usage, especially among generics.
"People take more prescriptions as they age. And we're aging  there's no getting around that," Bernauer said. "The number of people age 65 and older will double  to 70 million  by 2030. As fast as we're adding stores, the demand for prescriptions is growing faster."
Walgreens opened 221 new stores in the first nine months of fiscal 2003, with a net gain of 167 stores after relocations and closings. The company plans to open about 425 stores this fiscal year and operate 7,000 stores by 2010. President Jeff Rein said, "From mid-July to the end of August, when our fiscal year ends, we'll open about 120 new stores  nearly three per day."
As the company invests in new locations because of increasing prescription demand, Walgreens also is seeing its market share grow among non-prescription items. "The most recent 12-week period was our best market share gain for our top 60 categories in more than two years," said Rein. "As we add more stores, these reports will only look better for us."
At May 31, Walgreens operated 4,050 drugstores in 43 states and Puerto Rico, versus 3,766 a year ago, for a net increase of 284.
For additional information on the quarter's results, investors can listen to a recorded Webcast discussion on Walgreens Investor Relations Web site at: http://investor.walgreens.com.
This news release may contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The following factors could cause results to differ materially from management expectations as projected in such forward-looking statements: seasonal variations, competition, risks of new business areas, the availability and cost of real estate and construction, and changes in federal or state legislation or regulations. Investors are referred to the "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in the Company's most recent Form 10-K, which Note is incorporated into this news release by reference.
Fiscal 2003 third quarter includes a LIFO charge of $9 million versus a LIFO charge the previous year of $22.6 million. This year's quarter also includes a $12 million pre-tax ($7.4 million after tax) gain from litigation settlements. Fiscal 2003 nine months includes a $29.0 million pre-tax ($18.1 million after-tax) gain for litigation settlements. Fiscal 2002 nine months includes a $5.5 million pre-tax ($3.4 million after-tax) gain for a partial payment of the company's share of the brand name prescription drug antitrust litigation settlement. Excluding these gains, pre-tax earnings for the nine months increased 14.6 percent to $1,414.5 million from last year's $1,233.8 million, and after-tax earnings for the nine months increased 14.6 percent to $880.5 million from last year's $768.0 million.

Hello, and welcome to Walgreens audio webcast for the third quarter of fiscal year 2003 I'm Rick Hans, Walgreens Director of Finance, and I invite you to use this information in conjunction with the press release and other financial information posted on our web site.
Safe harbor language
Before we begin, I'd like to go over the safe harbor language. Certain statements and projections of future results made in this presentation constitute forward-looking information that is based on current market, competitive and regulatory expectations that involve risk and uncertainty. Please see page 4 of our Form 10-K, dated August 31, 2002, for a discussion of factors as they relate to forward-looking statements.
Sales and Earnings
Today we announced a record quarter of both sales and profits, although the results weren't up to our own expectations. Sales for the third quarter increased 12.6 percent to $8.3 billion. Net earnings for the quarter climbed 14.3 percent to $296.1 million or 29 cents per share, diluted.
I should point out that this quarter's earnings were helped by a $12 million credit as the result of a vitamin litigation settlement.
As our Chairman and CEO, David Bernauer, said in the press release, it's a tough retail environment out there. But we're very enthusiastic about our future, even though we faced an unusual set of circumstances this quarter involving margins, store costs and new accounting guidelines.
Gross Profit Margins and SG&A
While we've seen encouraging sales increases the past few months, gross margins weren't enough to offset added costs. Looking at the numbers, you'll see our gross margin showed a 59 basis point increase versus a year ago to 26.78 percent to sales. But the quarter's selling, general and administrative costs were up 66 basis points, to 21.25 as a percent to sales. As has happened in recent quarters, lower sales growth has hurt our ability to leverage SG&A. And much of that lower sales growth is the result of less expensive generic drug sales and the shift of Claritin from prescription to over-the-counter status.
Store payroll costs had a negative impact, but we see that as an investment in our future. As we noted in our press release this morning, we have 200 more 24-hour stores than we did a year ago, and we operate more 24-hour pharmacies than all other drugstore chains combined. Also, we're putting a huge emphasis on customer service. These initiatives are costing us payroll dollars, but we're committed to this level of service.
New accounting guidelines from the Emerging Issues Task Force, which we adopted in the second quarter of this year, also were a factor this quarter. The guidelines, known as Issue No.02-16, require vendor allowances be treated as a reduction of inventory cost unless specifically identified as reimbursement for other expenditures. Any vendor allowances received in excess of those expenditures also should be treated as a reduction of inventory cost. The new guidelines resulted in an increase to advertising costs of $27.1 million, a reduction to cost of sales of $20.6 million and a reduction to pre-tax earnings and inventory of $6.5 million.
Tax Rate
The effective annual tax rate of 37.75 percent for the first nine months is unchanged from a year ago.
 
[Preliminary and unaudited]
From the Balance Sheet
The consolidated balance sheet and statement of cash flows can be found on our Investor Relations Web site under the tab, "Financials." Let's look at a few highlights.
Cash and cash equivalents were $854.4 million at the end of the quarter, up from $286.2 million in the year-ago period.
Accounts receivable normally increase at the same rate as managed care, or third party, sales. This quarter third party sales grew 16.4 percent and accounts receivable grew 1.0 percent, reflecting more timely payments, especially by the Illinois Medicaid program.
LIFO inventories increased 20.2 percent versus a year ago. Although they grew at a faster rate than planned, most of the increase is due to the opening of the new distribution centers and store growth over the last 12 months.
The third quarter's LIFO charge of $9 million was $13.6 million less than the year ago quarter. That's because we lowered the LIFO inflation rate to 1.75 percent from 2.25 percent. We simply aren't seeing much inflation, even with prescriptions taken into consideration. In fact, we're negotiating lower prices with vendors to drive costs down for front-end merchandise.
Accounts payable for the quarter increased 24 percent, helped by payment terms related to product in one of our new distribution centers opened in the last year.
Comparable sales
Finally, let's take a closer look at our sales. Total comparable store sales - stores open more than a year - were up 8.2 percent in the quarter, while front-end comparable store sales rose 3.2 percent.
We continue to outperform our industry in this area and gain market share. In fact, in the most recent 12-week period, our market share gain against all other food, drugstore and mass merchandise retailers for our top 60 categories was the best gain since we began receiving these reports from A.C. Nielsen more than two years ago. And I'll remind you that those 60 categories represent the bulk of our front-end business. These are our core categories.
Our prescription sales climbed 15.5 percent in the quarter and rose 11.5 percent on a comparable store basis. You may have heard a lot about a slowdown in the increase of prescriptions. But we're posting strong pharmacy numbers because we're gaining market share. We've gone from filling 9 percent of all retail prescriptions in the country five years ago to 12 percent today. We're doing it thanks to our store expansion program, more 24-hour stores, drive-thru convenience, a range of "safety net" services for our patients and no pharmacist shortage.
Wrapup
Even as we work through this difficult retail environment, we're not losing sight of the need to build for our long-term success. We'll open about 425 new stores this year and are on track to operate 7,000 stores by 2010. From mid-July to the end of August, we'll open about 120 new stores  or about three per day. We didn't plan such a big store opening program at the end of our fiscal year, and we'd prefer to spread out these store openings a little more. But they open when they open.
We absolutely need to continue expanding our store base and the services inside those stores. The significant increase in prescription demand is unavoidable. Prescription numbers already have increased 36 percent in the last five years. And looking ahead, there will be 70 million Americans over age 65 by 2030, double the number today. Another wave of blockbuster generic drugs will hit the market over the next two years. Heavy R&D spending by the drug manufacturers will bring more medications to the market. All of this spells a bright future for the drugstore chain that's positioned to take advantage of it. That's where we are, and that's where we intend to be.
Thank you for listening. Our fourth quarter and fiscal year-end earnings announcement is scheduled for September 29. Thanks for being a loyal Walgreen shareholder, and remember, "You're Always Welcome at Walgreens!"
th



