FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20040624143347.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
Item 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(c) The following exhibits are being furnished as part of this Form 8-K:
Item 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On June 21, 2004, Walgreen Co. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended May 31, 2004. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
In addition to the issuance of a press release, Walgreen Co. also conducted a webcast and posted certain financial data on its website regarding results for the quarter ended May 31, 2004. A transcript of this webcast is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2, and the financial data is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3.
This information, including exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to this Form 8-K in such a filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Contact: Michael Polzin (847) 914-2925
 
DEERFIELD, Ill., June 21, 2004 - Walgreen Co. (NYSE, NASDAQ: WAG) today reported strong double-digit earnings growth while announcing record results for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2004.
Net earnings for the quarter ended May 31 were up 16.4 percent to $344.6 million or 33 cents per share (diluted), from $296.1 million or 29 cents per share (diluted) in the same quarter a year ago.
Net earnings for the nine months climbed 15.0 percent to $1.033 billion or $1.00 per share (diluted), versus last year's $898.6 million or 87 cents per share (diluted).
Sales increased 15.0 percent to a record $9.6 billion for the third quarter and 15.8 percent to $28.1 billion for the first nine months. Total sales in comparable stores (those open more than a year) were up 10.4 percent in the quarter.
Prescriptions, which accounted for 64 percent of sales in the quarter, climbed 17.2 percent. Prescription sales in comparable stores rose 13.4 percent in the quarter. Third party plans now account for 92 percent of all prescription sales.
"Strong sales, improved overall margins and good expense control combined for an excellent quarter," said Chairman and CEO David Bernauer. "At the same time, we're on pace with our expansion plan to open more than 425 new stores this year for a net increase (after store relocations and closings) of over 350."
Gross profit improved to 26.91 as a percent to sales versus last year's 26.78. "We saw improved front-end margins this quarter, though that was partially offset by faster growth in lower-margin prescription sales," said Bernauer.
Third quarter selling, occupancy and administrative costs also showed improvement, decreasing two basis points over the previous year, from 21.25 to 21.23 as a percent to sales.
"We distributed fixed costs over a larger store base and demonstrated solid expense control," said President Jeff Rein. "Some of that expense control was offset by costs associated with our ongoing and accelerated replacement of analog photo labs with digital machines. These new labs offer customers more and better services and lower our operating costs. They're a great return on investment."
With increasing demand for prescription drugs, Walgreens is expanding its store base and seeing its market share grow among non-prescription items, too. "In the most recent 52-week period, we gained market share in 59 of our top 60 categories," said Rein. "We expect that trend to continue as consumer demand increases for our brand of convenient shopping."
To support its store growth, in May Walgreens opened its fourth new distribution center in three years. This latest, highly efficient facility, located in Moreno Valley, Calif., is delivering merchandise to stores in Southern California and surrounding states.
Also in the quarter, Walgreens lowered its LIFO inflation index from 1.75 percent to 1.5 percent, reflecting less than anticipated inflation in inventories. Even with the reduction, this year's third quarter LIFO charge increased to $12.7 million from last year's $9.0 million. For the nine-month period, the LIFO charge was $55.2 million compared to last year's $55.7 million.
At May 31, Walgreens operated 4,414 drugstores in 44 states and Puerto Rico, versus 4,050 a year ago, for a net increase of 364.
For additional information on the quarter's results, investors can listen to a recorded Webcast discussion on Walgreens Investor Relations Web site at: http://investor.walgreens.com.
This news release may contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The following factors could cause results to differ materially from management expectations as projected in such forward-looking statements: seasonal variations, competition, risks of new business areas, the availability and cost of real estate and construction, and changes in federal or state legislation or regulations. Investors are referred to the "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in the Company's most recent Form 10-K, which Note is incorporated into this news release by reference.
Fiscal 2004 third quarter includes a LIFO charge of $12.7 million versus a LIFO charge the previous year of $9.0 million. Fiscal 2004 nine months includes a LIFO charge of $55.2 million versus a LIFO charge the previous year of $55.7 million. This year's quarter also includes a $3 million pre-tax ($1.9 million after-tax) gain for litigation settlements versus a gain in last year's quarter of $12 million pre-tax ($7.4 million after tax) from litigation settlements. Excluding these gains, pre-tax earnings for the quarter increased 18.2 percent to $548.3 million from last year's $463.7 million, and after-tax earnings for the quarter increased 18.7 percent to $342.7 million from last year's $288.7 million. Fiscal 2004 nine months also includes a $15.7 million pre-tax ($9.8 million after-tax) gain for litigation settlements versus a $29.0 million pre-tax ($18.1 million after-tax) gain in last year's period for litigation settlements. Excluding these gains, pre-tax earnings for the nine months increased 15.7 percent to $1,637.1 million from last year's $1,414.5 million, and after-tax earnings for the nine months increased 16.2 percent to $1,023.2 million from last year's $880.5 million.

June 21, 2004
Hello, and welcome to Walgreens audio webcast for the third quarter of fiscal year 2004. I'm Rick Hans, Walgreens Director of Finance, and I invite you to use this information in conjunction with the press release and other financial information posted on our Web site.
Safe harbor language
Before we begin, I'd like to go over the safe harbor language. Certain statements and projections of future results made in this presentation constitute forward-looking information that is based on current market, competitive and regulatory expectations that involve risk and uncertainty. Please see page 4 of our Form 10-K, dated August 31, 2003, for a discussion of factors as they relate to forward-looking statements.
Sales and Earnings
Today we announced a very strong quarter of both record sales and record profits, thanks to improved margins and good expense control. Sales for the third quarter increased 15.0 percent to $9.6 billion. Net earnings for the quarter outpaced our sales gain, climbing 16.4 percent to $344.6 million or 33 cents per share, diluted. Meanwhile, operating earnings increased 18.2 percent.
Last year's third quarter benefited from a pre-tax gain of $12 million from litigation settlements, while this year we recorded just a $3 million pre-tax gain for settlements. In last year's nine month period, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $29 million for settlements compared to just $15.7 million pre-tax this year.
Excluding these settlement gains, earnings would have increased 18.7 percent in the third quarter to $342.7 million and 16.2 percent for the nine months to $1.023 billion.
For the first nine months of the fiscal year, sales rose 15.8 percent to $28.1 billion, while net earnings climbed 15.0 percent to $1.033 billion.
As our Chairman and CEO, David Bernauer, said in the press release, sales, gross profit margins and expense control were all solid this quarter. I'd like to go into a little more detail on each of these items right now.
Sales
Total comparable store sales - stores open more than a year - were up 10.4 percent in the quarter. Front-end comparable store sales rose 5.6 percent, primarily driven by increasing customer counts.
Customer demand for our stores continues to grow, helping us to gain market share. In the most recent 52-week period, we gained market share against all other food, drugstore and mass merchandise retailers in 59 of our top 60 categories. Those 60 categories represent the bulk of our front-end business.
Our prescription sales climbed 17.2 percent in the quarter and rose 13.4 percent on a comparable store basis. We're posting strong pharmacy increases while gaining market share in this category, too.
Gross Profit Margins
Gross profit margins performed very well this quarter, as we recorded a gain of 13 basis points, to 26.91, as a percent to sales. The increase was driven by front-end - or non-pharmacy - products, where we saw our sales mix move toward higher margin categories, especially digital photo processing. We also saw good news with pharmacy margins as a percent to sales - they were nearly flat for the quarter thanks to a steady stream of new generics coming to the market.
Still, fast growth in pharmacy penalizes overall margins because those prescription sales are at a lower gross profit than front-end items.
 
SO&A
Third quarter selling, occupancy and administrative costs decreased 2 basis points, to 21.23 as a percent to sales. Our store expansion program allows us to spread fixed costs over a larger base, and we did a good job of controlling other expenses. Some of that expense control was offset by costs associated with our ongoing and accelerated replacement of analog photo labs with digital machines. This is a great business decision because of the excellent return on investment we're seeing.
Tax Rate
The effective annual tax rate of 37.5 percent for the first nine months is a quarter-point below the previous year.
[Preliminary and unaudited]
From the Balance Sheet
The consolidated balance sheet and statement of cash flows can be found on our Investor Relations Web site under the tab, "Financials." Let's look at a few highlights.
Cash and cash equivalents were $1.577 billion at the end of the quarter, up from $854.4 million in the year-ago period.
Third party sales this quarter grew 18.8 percent and accounts receivable grew 28.8 percent. The difference is primarily due to the timing of payment cycles.
On a third quarter sales gain of 15.0 percent, LIFO inventories increased just 8.5 percent versus a year ago. That's a strong testament to the performance of our store management, corporate purchasing folks and our advertising.
The third quarter's LIFO charge of $12.7 million was slightly higher than the year ago quarter, despite the fact that we lowered the LIFO inflation rate to 1.5 percent from 1.75 percent.
Accounts payable increased 16.4 percent over the prior year.
 
Wrap-up
We're very excited about the future of your company. Not just because of one excellent quarter, but because of our track record of 29 straight years of record earnings. Over that time, we've made the necessary investments to keep Walgreens growing. And we're making big investments today - in new store growth, distribution, technology, customer service, digital photo labs and 24-hour stores - to capture a larger share of the new drugstore business that's waiting out there.
Some of that business is in the form of the new Medicare-approved drug discount cards. This program is a bit of a political hot potato right now. But it offers real price breaks for seniors who wouldn't otherwise get discounts on their medications. We've already signed up tens of thousands of seniors for the Walgreens Health Initiatives Prescription Discount Card, and we expect many, many more to sign up in coming months. This is just one way for us to introduce an entirely new group of potential patients to the convenience and service of Walgreens pharmacies.
We believe the convenience and face-to-face communication our pharmacies offer are services that pharmacy patients value. That's why we continue to take a stand against third party plans that mandate members to use mail order pharmacies. We won't participate in any new, or renewed, plans that have a mandatory mail requirement. We believe patients should have the option to fill their prescriptions at either a retail pharmacy or a mail order pharmacy. For patients who like the convenience of a 90-day refill, we offer that option at our retail pharmacies. And with the lower cost of 90-day prescriptions at retail, we believe this option is a compelling alternative for plan providers and members alike.
Thank you for listening. Our fourth quarter and fiscal year-end earnings announcement is scheduled for September 27. Thanks for being a loyal Walgreen shareholder, and remember, "You're Always Welcome at Walgreens!"
th



