FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20040106134820.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (847) 914-2500
Item 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 5, 2004, Walgreen Co. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended November 30, 2003. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
In addition to the issuance of a press release, Walgreen Co. also conducted a webcast and posted certain financial data on its website regarding results for the quarter ended November 30, 2003. A transcript of this webcast is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2, and the financial data is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3.
This information, including exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to this Form 8-K in such a filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 6, 2004

 
DEERFIELD, Ill., Jan. 5, 2004  Walgreen Co. (NYSE: WAG) today announced record sales and earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2004.
Net earnings for the quarter ended Nov. 30 were up 10.1 percent to $254.9 million or 25 cents per share (diluted), from $231.6 million or 22 cents per share (diluted) in the same quarter a year ago. Excluding a pre-tax gain last year of $16.7 million or 1 cent per share (diluted) from litigation settlements, earnings rose 15.2 percent from last year's $221.2 million or 21 cents per share.
Sales for the first quarter increased 16.5 percent to a record $8.7 billion. Total sales in comparable stores (those open more than a year) were up 11.9 percent in the quarter.
Prescriptions, which accounted for 64 percent of sales in the quarter, climbed 18.7 percent. Prescription sales in comparable stores rose 14.7 percent in the quarter. Third party plans now account for 91 percent of all prescription sales.
"The first quarter saw a continued turnaround in sales growth among non-pharmacy products," said Chairman Dave Bernauer. "Front-end sales in comparable stores increased 7.5 percent in the quarter  our best increase in more than nine years."
While an improved economy and tax rebate checks have made consumers more willing to spend on discretionary items, Bernauer also credited the steady sales increases to factors within the company's control.
"Our ads are driving incremental sales, store managers are doing what's right for their
customers, which is increasing service levels, and we're benefiting from the growth in digital photography by offering new digital photo services," said Bernauer.
Last month Walgreens announced it now offers standard, 4x6 photo-quality prints from digital cameras at nearly 4,300 locations, more than any other retailer. And at a price of just 29 cents each, digital photo prints are the same price as for prints from traditional film and less than half the cost of home printing, which typically runs 65 to 75 cents per 4x6 print.
On the pharmacy side, comparable store sales increases are improving. President Jeff Rein said, "Prescription growth moderated in the last year due to concerns about hormone replacement therapy, prescription-to-over-the-counter switches such as Claritin and higher copays imposed by insurance companies. But sales increases are moving higher again, and the long-term outlook is as strong as ever when you consider the aging population, innovative new drugs hitting the market and the new Medicare drug benefit, which by itself will add 75 to 100 million new prescriptions per year. This increasing demand and the exceptional service our pharmacists provide are fueling Walgreens growth."
The company opened 85 new stores in the first quarter and plans to open about 450 new stores during fiscal 2004, for a net increase after closings and relocations of about 365 stores. Walgreens is on track to operate 7,000 stores in 2010.
Gross profit margins in the first quarter decreased to 26.37 percent, 29 basis points lower than the year ago quarter, as lower-margin pharmacy sales made up a larger percentage of overall sales. Competitive pricing on front-end merchandise, especially in November, also impacted profit margins.
The gross profit margin decrease was mostly offset by a 22 basis point decrease in selling, general and administrative costs. Compared to a year ago, first quarter SG&A decreased from 21.95 to 21.73 as a percent to sales.
Inventories for the quarter increased 17.0 percent on a 16.5 percent sales gain. "We're focused on being in stock for our customers. We have the right inventory and it's in the right place  our stores, not the warehouses," said Bernauer.
For additional information on the quarter's results, investors can listen to a recorded Webcast discussion on Walgreens Investor Relations Web site at: http://investor.walgreens.com.
This news release may contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The following factors could cause results to differ materially from management expectations as projected in such forward-looking statements: seasonal variations, competition, risks of new business areas, the availability and cost of real estate and construction, and changes in federal or state legislation or regulations. Investors are referred to the "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in the Company's most recent Form 10-K, which Note is incorporated into this news release by reference.
Fiscal 2003 first quarter includes a $16.7 million pre-tax ($10.4 million after-tax) gain for litigation settlements. Excluding this gain, earnings for the fiscal 2004 first quarter increased 15.2 percent from last year's $221.2 million or 21 cents per share (diluted).
(A)

Jan. 5, 2004
Hello, and happy new year! Welcome to Walgreens audio webcast for the first quarter ending Nov. 30, 2003. I'm Rick Hans, Walgreens Director of Finance, and I'd like to thank you for tuning in. We invite you to use this information in conjunction with the press release and other financial information posted on our web site.
Safe Harbor Language
Before we begin, I'd like to go over the safe harbor language. Certain statements and projections of future results made in this presentation constitute forward-looking information that is based on current market, competitive and regulatory expectations that involve risk and uncertainty. Please see page 4 of our Form 10-K, dated August 31, 2003, for a discussion of factors as they relate to forward-looking statements.
[Preliminary and unaudited]
Sales and Earnings
Today we announced another quarter of both record sales and profits. The momentum in front-end sales we've experienced since last summer continued, helping us achieve a 16.5 percent sales increase to $8.7 billion for the quarter ended Nov. 30. Net earnings, meanwhile, climbed 10.1 percent to $254.9 million or 25 cents per share, diluted. Excluding a pre-tax gain last year from litigation settlements of $16.7 million or 1 cent per share, diluted, earnings rose 15.2 percent from last year's $221.2 million or 21 cents per share, diluted.
Comparable sales
Taking a closer look at our sales, total comparable store sales  for stores open more than a year  were up 11.9 percent in the quarter, while front-end comparable store sales rose 7.5 percent.
Pharmacy sales climbed 18.7 percent overall and 14.7 percent on a comparable store basis in the quarter. Much was made earlier this year about a slowdown in industrywide prescription growth. But we stressed that while growth may have moderated in the short-term, this remains a very good industry to be in over the long term. And we firmly believe that today, with an aging population, innovative new drugs and the new Medicare legislation contributing to more prescription demand. The long-term outlook is strong. And even in the short term, we're posting aggressive prescription growth numbers.
With only 8 percent of the drugstores in the U.S. but 13 percent of the retail prescription market, our opportunities are wide open, which is why we have 450 new stores planned for this fiscal year. We opened 85 new stores in the first quarter, bringing our store count as of Nov. 30 to 4,291, a net increase of 337 stores from the same period a year ago.
SG&A and Gross Profit Margins
Now I'd like to review our gross profit and expense numbers. Gross profit margins decreased 29 basis points compared to the year ago quarter to 26.37 percent. Gross margins were hurt by the shift in our total sales mix to more prescription revenue and from fewer new generic prescription products hitting the market. Also, more promotional activity in our front-end business resulted in lower margins among those items.
On the expense side, selling, general and administration expenses decreased by 22 basis points compared to a year ago, to 21.73 as a percent to sales. SG&A was helped as we spread fixed costs over a larger store base.
Gross profit margins and SG&A were both affected this quarter by a new mandated accounting guideline that we adopted in January 2003. The guideline is from the Emerging Issues Task Force and is known as Issue No. 02-16. The guideline requires vendor allowances to be treated as a reduction of inventory cost unless specifically identified as reimbursement for other expenses. Any vendor allowances received in excess of those expenses also should be treated as a reduction of inventory cost.
The new EITF guideline increased our gross profit margins by 12 basis points. And it caused an 18-basis point increase in our SG&A for the quarter, although I'll emphasize again, overall we were able to decrease our SG&A by 22 basis points.
The net effect of the EITF guideline decreased our operating margin by 6 basis points.
Tax Rate
The effective annual tax rate was lowered a quarter-percentage point from 37.75 percent to 37.5 percent.
From the Balance Sheet and Statements of Cash Flows
The consolidated balance sheet and statements of cash flows can be found at investor.walgreens.com, under the tab, "Financials." Cash increased from $294 million at the end of last year's first quarter to $868 million at the end of this year's first quarter.
LIFO inventories were $4.839 billion, a 17.0 percent increase from the year ago quarter and a slightly higher increase than our sales in the quarter. But we're willing to make that tradeoff in the short term to ensure we have good in-stock conditions in our stores. We bought merchandise in anticipation of a strong holiday season and an early, potent flu season. We're confident that system enhancements rolling out this year will reduce our inventory while improving in-stock conditions even more.
Two other numbers I'd like to highlight from the balance sheet are accounts receivable, which increased 9.9 percent, and accounts payable, which increased 27.4 percent. When accounts receivable grows slower than sales and accounts payable grows faster than sales, cash flow is going to benefit. And that's what happened this quarter  to our advantage.
Wrapup
We're off to another strong start in fiscal 2004, which we anticipate will be our 30 consecutive year of record sales and earnings. Front-end sales are continuing their upward climb, a fast start to the flu season is driving sales of cough/cold products and holiday season sales were their strongest in recent years.
th
To build our business, we'll continue focusing on our customers, whether it's through customer service initiatives or taking a stand to ensure pharmacy patients have the choice of filling their prescriptions either at their neighborhood pharmacy or through the mail.
Providing this choice is the right thing to do for our patients, and we'll do everything we can to protect that choice. This includes, as we announced last month, no longer accepting any new insurance plans that require patients to order 90-day maintenance medications through the mail.
I'll emphasize again that this stand is pro-consumer, and not anti-mail. We operate our own mail-service pharmacies, which are a fast-growing business for us. Obviously, we think mail is a good option for some patients.
But we want to ensure mail service remains only an option and doesn't become a requirement. We think our pharmacy patients deserve that choice.
Walgreens Health Initiatives, our pharmacy benefit manager, offers a cost-saving solution to insurance plans that's an alternative to mandatory mail service. Our retail pharmacy service for 90-day maintenance medications, called Advantage90, gives patients the alternative to mail service that some of them want, while providing cost-savings for the plan. It meets the needs of everyone involved, and insurance plans have given us a very good response to this program. Other PBMs are developing similar programs, and we believe all PBMs will do so in the future.
Thank you for listening. Our next earnings announcement, for the second quarter of fiscal 2004, is scheduled for March 22. Once again, thanks for being a Walgreen shareholder, and remember, "You're Always Welcome at Walgreens!"
nd



