FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20060330092121.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Item 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On March 27, 2006, Walgreen Co. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended February 28, 2006. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
In addition to the issuance of a press release, Walgreen Co. also conducted a webcast and posted certain financial data on its website regarding results for the quarter ended February 28, 2006. A transcript of this webcast is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2, and the financial data is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3.
This information, including exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to this Form 8-K in such a filing.
Item 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)
 
The following exhibits are being furnished as part of this Form 8-K:
Exhibit
 
 
 
Number
 
 
 
Description
Exhibit 99.1
  
   
Press Release issued by Walgreen Co., dated March 27, 2006, announcing the results for the quarter ended February 28, 2006.
Exhibit 99.2
  
   
Transcript of Walgreen Co.'s March 27, 2006 Webcast regarding the results for the quarter ended February 28, 2006.
Exhibit 99.3
  
   
Financial data of Walgreen Co. regarding the results for the quarter ended February 28, 2006.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
 
Contact: Michael Polzin
(847) 914-2925
 
March 27, 2006
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
        
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
INTERNET: http://www.walgreens.com
DEERFIELD, Ill. - Walgreen Co. (NYSE, NASDAQ: WAG) today announced record fiscal year 2006 second quarter and first half sales and earnings, including the effects of expensing stock options.
 
Net earnings for the quarter ended Feb. 28 were up 6.6 percent to $523.5 million or 51 cents per share (diluted), from $490.9 million or 48 cents per share (diluted) in the same quarter a year ago. This years second quarter earnings were reduced by $27.4 million pre-tax for employee stock option program expenses, as required by accounting regulations. Last year, these options werent expensed. Also, last years quarter includes a pre-tax gain of $4.7 million from litigation settlements.
 
First half net earnings climbed 6.1 percent to $869.1 million or 85 cents per share (diluted) versus last years $819.5 million or 80 cents per share (diluted). This years first half earnings were reduced by $63.6 million pre-tax for employee stock option program expenses. Last years first half includes a pre-tax gain of $19.7 million from litigation settlements.
Sales increased 10.7 percent to a record $12.2 billion for the second quarter and 10.5 percent to $23.1 billion for the first half. Total sales in comparable stores (those open more than a year) were up 6.5 percent in the quarter.
 
Prescription sales, which accounted for 61.5 percent of sales in the quarter, climbed 11.1 percent. Prescription sales in comparable stores rose 7.4 percent in the quarter, while the number of prescriptions filled in comparable stores increased 3.5 percent. Third party plans now account for 92.6 percent of all prescription sales.
 
     "Pharmacy drives our business, and while this quarter saw the impact of a much milder flu season than a year ago, we continue to increase pharmacy market share and our prescription growth continues to outpace the industry," said Chairman and CEO Dave Bernauer. Walgreens recorded an increase of 6.3 percent in the quarter in retail prescriptions filled, compared to the retail industry (which excludes mail service pharmacies) increase of 2.1 percent for the same period, according to IMS Health, Inc.
   
 
"At the same time, we saw solid sales increases in the front-end of the store, especially during the Christmas and Valentines Day seasons," said Bernauer.
 
Gross profit margins decreased 5 basis points versus the year-ago quarter to 28.44 as a percent to sales. Pharmacy margins were impacted in part by increases in the companys prescription mail service and the new Medicare prescription benefit, both of which have lower profit margins. Those factors were partially offset by more use of higher margin generic drugs.
 
Selling, occupancy and administration expenses increased 26 basis points in the quarter to 21.69 as a percent to sales. The increase resulted from the company expensing employee stock options this quarter, and higher store expenses and salaries associated in part with the startup of the Medicare prescription benefit. Also impacting the SO&A ratio were lower-priced generic drugs that slowed the companys sales line. Partially offsetting those factors was lower costs associated with the conversion from analog to digital store photo labs.
 
These digital labs allow Walgreens customers to upload their digital photos from home to Walgreens.com and order prints for pickup in one hour at virtually any of Walgreens more than 5,100 drugstores nationwide.
"This is an especially convenient service for grandparents who dont live near their grandchildren," said President Jeff Rein. "Birthday party photos can be uploaded from the childs home in Chicago and picked up by the grandparents in Florida at a nearby Walgreens before the candles are blown out."
 
During the quarter, Walgreens also announced:
 
 
 Walgreens opened or acquired 222 new stores in the first half of fiscal 2006, compared to 180 in the comparable period a year ago, with a net gain of 171 stores after relocations and closings. "Were on track to open about 475 new drugstores this year, with a net increase of about 390," said Rein.
   
  
 
At Feb. 28, Walgreens operated 5,156 stores in 45 states and Puerto Rico. Walgreens plans to operate more than 7,000 stores in 2010.
 
For additional information on the quarters results, investors can listen to a recorded Webcast discussion on Walgreens Investor Relations Web site at: http://investor.walgreens.com.
 
This news release may contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The following factors could cause results to differ materially from management expectations as projected in such forward-looking statements: seasonal variations, competition, risks of new business areas, the availability and cost of real estate and construction, and changes in federal or state legislation or regulations. Investors are referred to the "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in the Companys most recent Form 10-K, which Note is incorporated into this news release by reference.

March 27, 2006
Hello, and thanks for tuning in to Walgreens audio webcast for the second quarter of fiscal year 2006. Im Rick Hans, Walgreens Director of Finance, and I invite you to use this information in conjunction with the press release and other financial information posted on our Web site.
Safe Harbor Language
Before we begin, Id like to go over the safe harbor language. Certain statements and projections of future results made in this presentation constitute forward-looking information that is based on current market, competitive and regulatory expectations that involve risk and uncertainty. Please see our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2005, for a discussion of factors as they relate to forward-looking statements.
[Preliminary and unaudited]
Sales and Earnings
Today we announced second quarter earnings were up 6.6 percent to $523.5 million, or 51 cents per share (diluted). That came on a sales increase of 10.7 percent to $12.2 billion. This quarters earnings were reduced by $27.4 million pre-tax for employee stock option program expenses, versus a $36.2 million pre-tax reduction in the first quarter. Last year, these options werent expensed. I should also note that last years quarter includes a pre-tax gain from litigation settlements of $4.7 million.
For the first six months of fiscal 2006, sales increased 10.5 percent to $23.1 billion. Net earnings rose 6.1 percent to $869.1 million or 85 cents per share, diluted. This years first half earnings were reduced by $63.6 million pre-tax for employee stock option program expenses. Also, last years first half includes a pre-tax gain of $19.7 million from litigation settlements.
 
In this years second quarter our LIFO index remained the same as the previous quarter, so we recorded a LIFO provision of $23.8 million versus a LIFO provision of $27.1 million a year ago.
Strong Christmas and Valentines Day seasons led good front-end sales in the quarter. We gained market share in 57 of our top 60 core product categories versus our drugstore, grocery and mass merchant competitors compared to a year ago.
But pharmacy sales increases faced a strong headwind from a flu season that didnt generate as many doctor visits as a year ago and, as a result, fewer prescriptions. Pharmacy accounted for 61.5 percent of our second-quarter sales, a slightly lower percent than the first quarter because this quarter includes the busy holiday shopping season.
This years store growth remains ahead of last years pace, as we plan for 475 new drugstores to open during fiscal 2006. We opened or acquired 222 new stores in the first half of this fiscal year, compared to 180 in the year-ago period. That brought our store count to 5,156 as of Feb. 28, a net increase of 387 from a year ago. We remain on track to operate more than 7,000 stores in 2010.
Comparable Sales
Taking a closer look at sales, total comparable store sales - for stores open more than a year - were up 6.5 percent in the quarter, while front-end comparable store sales rose 5.0 percent.
Pharmacy sales climbed 11.1 percent overall and 7.4 percent on a comparable store basis in the quarter. The number of prescriptions filled in comparable stores rose 3.5 percent.
As I noted earlier, prescription gains were held back this quarter by a mild flu compared to last year. Other factors working against our prescription numbers were concerns over medication side effects prompted by Vioxx and other drugs, and Medicaid issues in Tennessee and Puerto Rico that led to fewer patients from those plans coming into our stores.
Gross Profit Margins
 
and SO&A
Gross profit margins slipped 5 basis points versus the year-ago quarter to 28.44 as a percent to sales. You may recall that in last years quarter we posted a strong, 83 basis point increase in gross profit margins, making for a difficult comparison this year. In addition, the decrease resulted from our prescription mail service and the new Medicare drug benefit making up larger parts of our sales. Both of those business opportunities have lower gross profit margins. Still, some of the gross profit margin decline was offset by more use of higher margin generic drugs.
Meanwhile, selling, occupancy and administration expenses increased 26 basis points to 21.69 as a percent to sales. Among the factors in this increase were:
On the flip side, helping our SO&A levels were lower costs associated with our conversion from analog to digital store photo labs.
Tax Rate
The effective tax rate for the second quarter this year was 37.0 percent, compared to 37.25 percent in last years second quarter. The effective tax rate for the first half of this year also was 37.0 percent, compared to 36.64 percent in the year ago period.
[Preliminary and unaudited]
From the Balance Sheet
The consolidated balance sheet and statements of cash flows can be found within our press release and at investor.walgreens.com, under the tab, "Financials." Cash and short-term investments decreased from $1.447 billion at the end of last years second quarter to $1.225 billion at the end of this years second quarter.
Accounts receivable increased 24.6 percent, while accounts payable increased 16.3 percent. Both were driven by growth in our pharmacy benefit management business under the new Medicare prescription plan.
LIFO inventories were $5.616 billion, an 8.8 percent increase from the year ago quarter.
Share Repurchase Plan
For the first six months of fiscal 2006, we repurchased 3.2 million shares of stock for $141.8 million under our $1 billion share repurchase plan announced in July 2004.
Wrapup
During the second quarter, we were pleased with our market share gains in the front-end of the store, even with a tough sales comparison to the year-ago period. Were also seeing strong growth in digital photofinishing, thanks to our online photo services that allow Walgreens.com users to get digital photo prints in one-hour at virtually any of our more than 5,100 drugstores nationwide.
Despite expenses from its initial startup, Medicares new prescription plan will have a long-term positive impact on us as it takes cost out of the equation for many seniors when they decide where to fill their prescriptions. Theyll pay virtually the same co-pay wherever they go in their network. Were winning - and will continue to win - many of these patients with our convenient locations, reputation and senior-friendly services like drive-thru pharmacies and large-type prescription instructions.
Looking ahead, I want to point out that Easter was on March 27 last year, but falls on April 16 this year. This will affect our comparable store sales results for March and April. To show an apples-to-apples comparison to 2005, well report combined March/April results with our usual April sales announcement.
Thank you for listening. Our next earnings announcement, for the third quarter of fiscal 2006, is scheduled for June 26
th
. Once again, thanks for being a loyal Walgreen shareholder, and remember, "Youre Always Welcome at Walgreens!"

 
 
 
 
 
 
 


