FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20060104134139.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On January 3, 2006, Walgreen Co. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended November 30, 2005. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
In addition to the issuance of a press release, Walgreen Co. also conducted a webcast and posted certain financial data on its website regarding results for the quarter ended November 30, 2005. A transcript of this webcast is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2, and the financial data is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3.
This information, including exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to this Form 8-K in such a filing.
 
Item 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
DEERFIELD, Ill., Jan. 3, 2006 - Walgreen Co. (NYSE, NASDAQ: WAG) today announced record fiscal year 2006 first quarter sales and earnings, including the effects of expensing stock options.
Net earnings for the quarter ended Nov. 30 were up 5.2 percent to $345.6 million or 34 cents per share (diluted), from $328.6 million or 32 cents per share (diluted) in the same quarter a year ago. This year's first quarter earnings were reduced by $36.2 million pre-tax or 2 cents per share (diluted) for employee stock option program expenses, as required by accounting regulations. Previously, these options weren't expensed. Also, last year's quarter includes a pre-tax gain of $15.0 million or 1 cent per share (diluted) from litigation settlements.
Sales for the first quarter increased 10.2 percent to a record $10.9 billion. Total sales in comparable stores (those open more than a year) were up 7.2 percent in the quarter.
Prescription sales, which accounted for 65 percent of sales in the quarter, climbed 10.3 percent. Prescription sales in comparable stores rose 7.7 percent in the quarter, while the number of prescriptions filled in comparable stores increased 5.0 percent. Third party plans now account for 92.5 percent of all prescription sales.
"Investments in our future continued this quarter while we posted record results," said Chairman and CEO Dave Bernauer. "We marked a milestone in our growth when we opened our 5,000 store in October in Richmond, Va. We'll tick up our new store openings this year, expand our healthcare offerings beyond traditional pharmacy service and educate hundreds of thousands of seniors on the new Medicare prescription drug insurance plan."
th
Gross profit margins were up 16 basis points versus the year-ago quarter to 27.54 as a percent to sales, due to growth in generic drug sales. Some of that benefit, however, was offset by a sales shift within non-pharmacy items to lower-margin product categories.
Selling, occupancy and administration expenses increased 31 basis points to 22.57 as a percent to sales. The increase resulted from the company expensing employee stock options beginning this quarter, higher store salaries and the effect of last year's gain from litigation settlements. Offsetting those factors were lower insurance costs as a percent of sales and lower costs associated with the ongoing conversion from analog to digital store photo labs. Also impacting the SO&A ratio were lower-priced generic drugs that slowed the company's sales line.
During the quarter, Walgreens acquired selected assets from the 23-store Medic drugstore chain in the Cleveland market. The company also:
Entered into a joint venture with SeniorMed Pharmacy to provide prescription service to residents in assisted living communities;
Acquired Schraft's A Specialty Pharmacy, one of the nation's leading providers of fertility medications and services; and
Announced it was acquiring, through its Walgreens Home Care subsidiary, Home Pharmacy of California, one of the largest independent home infusion companies in California.
"While organic drugstore expansion is far and away our largest growth driver, select acquisitions in both our managed care division and drugstore division also are positioning us for the prescription growth that's happening as the population ages," said President Jeff Rein. "The Medicare prescription insurance plan that started Jan. 1 also will bring more seniors to us. The program takes cost out of the equation for many of them, and they'll place more importance on the convenience and service features in which we excel."
To help seniors benefit from the new Medicare prescription insurance plan, Walgreens has developed an application that generates a printed personalized report listing a senior's medications covered under available plans, along with each plan's premium, co-pay and deductible. The service is exclusive to Walgreens and available nationwide. "These reports are a
great way for seniors to make an informed choice, especially if they don't have access to the Medicare Web site," said Rein.
Walgreens opened or acquired 127 new stores in the first quarter for a net increase after closings and relocations of 83 stores. The company plans to open about 475 new stores during fiscal 2006, for a net increase after closings and relocations of about 390 stores.
At Nov. 30, Walgreens operated 5,068 stores in 45 states and Puerto Rico. The store total now includes 33 home care division locations but excludes 22 stores closed due to Hurricane Katrina. Walgreens is on track to operate over 7,000 stores in 2010.
For additional information on the quarter's results, investors can listen to a recorded Webcast discussion on Walgreens Investor Relations Web site at: http://investor.walgreens.com.
This news release may contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The following factors could cause results to differ materially from management expectations as projected in such forward-looking statements: seasonal variations, competition, risks of new business areas, the availability and cost of real estate and construction, and changes in federal or state legislation or regulations. Investors are referred to the "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in the Company's most recent Form 10-K, which Note is incorporated into this news release by reference.
Fiscal 2006 first quarter includes expenses of $36.2 million pre-tax ($22.8 million after-tax) for employee stock option programs, in accordance with the company's adoption of SFAS No. 123R, "Share-Based Payments." Fiscal 2005 first quarter includes a $15.0 million pre-tax ($9.5 million after-tax) gain for litigation settlements.
Fiscal 2006 first quarter results included an effective income tax rate of 37.00 percent versus 35.72 percent for the same period last year.
 

 
Jan. 3, 2006
Hello, and happy new year to everyone! Welcome to Walgreens audio webcast for the first quarter ending Nov. 30, 2005. I'm Rick Hans, Walgreens Director of Finance, and I'd like to thank you for tuning in. We invite you to use this information in conjunction with the press release and other financial information posted on our web site.
Safe Harbor Language
Before we begin, I'd like to go over the safe harbor language. Certain statements and projections of future results made in this presentation constitute forward-looking information that is based on current market, competitive and regulatory expectations that involve risk and uncertainty. Please see our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2005, for a discussion of factors as they relate to forward-looking statements.
[Preliminary and unaudited]
Sales and Earnings
Today we announced first quarter earnings were up 5.2 percent to $345.6 million, or 34 cents per share (diluted). That came on a sales increase of 10.2 percent to $10.9 billion. This year's earnings were reduced by $36.2 million pre-tax or 2 cents per share (diluted) for employee stock option program expenses, as required by accounting regulations. Previously, these options weren't expensed. You won't see as great an impact in the remaining quarters this year because the accelerated expense for retirement eligible employees was $13.1 million of this quarter's $36.2 million total. The long tenure of Walgreen employees causes this accelerated expensing. I should also note that last year's quarter includes a pre-tax gain from litigation settlements of $15.0 million or 1 cent per share (diluted).
 
Comparable sales
Taking a closer look at our sales, total comparable store sales - for stores open more than a year - were up 7.2 percent in the quarter, while front-end comparable store sales rose 6.4 percent.
Comparable pharmacy sales in the quarter were up 7.7 percent, while total pharmacy sales climbed 10.3 percent. The number of prescriptions filled in comparable stores rose 5.0 percent.
We acquired 12 stores in the quarter while opening 115 new locations, including our 5,000 store in Richmond, Va. That brought our store count as of Nov. 30 to 5,068, which includes 33 home care division locations but excludes 22 stores closed by Hurricane Katrina. We plan to open about 475 new stores this fiscal year, for a net increase after store relocations and closings of about 390. We're also on track to reach our goal of operating more than 7,000 stores in 2010.
th
Gross Profit Margins and SO&A
Gross profit margins increased 16 basis points versus the year-ago quarter to 27.54 as a percent to sales. Growth in generic drug sales led the increase. But that was partly offset by a sales shift within non-pharmacy items to lower-margin product categories.
Meanwhile, selling, occupancy and administration expenses increased 31 basis points to 22.57 as a percent to sales. Among the factors in this increase were our expensing of employee stock options beginning this quarter, higher store salaries and the effect of last year's gain from litigation settlements. On the flip side, helping our SO&A levels were lower insurance costs as a percent to sales and lower costs associated with our ongoing conversion from analog to digital store photo labs.
Because of our aggressive rollout of these photo labs, we're the only national drugstore chain that lets customers upload their digital photos from home to Walgreens.com and pick up their photos at any Walgreens location chainwide in an hour. Services like this differentiate us from the competition and bring customers back into our stores.
The growth in lower-priced generic drugs also impacted SO&A as a percent to sales by slowing our revenue line. But we don't mind that because of the help we get from generics with gross profit dollars. In fiscal 2006, the good news for us is that we anticipate record new generic drug introductions that could equal about 7 percent of total current prescriptions we fill. We'll see plenty of new generics hitting the market during the year, but the biggest ones - generics for Zocor and Zoloft - are expected to be introduced late in our fiscal year, thus having a larger impact in our fiscal 2007.
Tax Rate
The effective annual tax rate for the first quarter this year was 37.00 percent, compared to 35.72 percent in last year's first quarter.
From the Balance Sheet and Statements of Cash Flows
The consolidated balance sheet and statements of cash flows can be found within our press release and at investor.walgreens.com, under the tab, "Financials." Cash and short-term investments decreased from $1.313 billion at the end of last year's first quarter to $896 million at the end of this year's first quarter.
Accounts receivable were up 11.9 percent, a slower increase than we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2005 thanks in part to the State of Illinois catching up on its prescription reimbursement payments.
LIFO inventories were $6.24 billion, an 11.8 percent increase from the year ago quarter and a slightly higher increase than our sales in the quarter. But on a year-over-year basis, inventories have improved since the last quarter. In tandem with this slowdown in purchases, accounts payable increased only 3.1 percent in the quarter.
Wrapup
As we look ahead to the second quarter of fiscal 2006, the new Medicare prescription drug benefit looms large. This program will take cost out of the equation for many seniors as they decide where to fill their prescriptions. They'll pay virtually the same co-pay wherever they go in their network. And that's why our convenient locations, reputation and senior-friendly services like drive-thru pharmacies and large-type prescription instructions will gradually win over many of these patients during the course of the year. The new benefit also should spur more filling of prescriptions by seniors, who had been a heavy cash-paying group.
How fast will seniors sign up for the benefit? That's not an easy question to answer. But our guess is that signups will start slowly, then gain momentum as people realize they can save significant dollars.
Elsewhere on the healthcare front, two transactions during the quarter will bring us added expertise and market share. We acquired Schraft's A Specialty Pharmacy, known as the gold standard in the fertility drug business. And our joint venture with SeniorMed, an assisted living prescription business, allows us to continue serving patients' prescription needs when they enter assisted living centers or nursing homes.
Finally, I'd like to mention what a fantastic job our folks did to serve customers this quarter during Hurricanes Rita and Wilma. Not only did our local staffs build customer loyalty by being open when people really needed us, but we had more than 700 volunteers head down to the hurricane areas to help run our stores. All of them amazed patients with our ability to fill their prescriptions no matter where they were.
Thank you for listening. Our December sales results will be announced tomorrow morning, and our next earnings announcement, for the second quarter of fiscal 2006, is scheduled for March 27. Once again, thanks for being a Walgreen shareholder, and remember, "You're Always Welcome at Walgreens!"
th



