FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20060605110955.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 8.01. OTHER EVENTS.
 
 
On June 5, 2006, Walgreen Co. issued a press release announcing that the
Delaware-based Happy Harrys pharmacy chain has agreed to a merger with Walgreen Co. 
The information
contained in this press release, which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-
K, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
 (d) The following exhibit is being filed as part of this Form 8-K:
   
 
Exhibit Number
  
   
 
Description
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1   Press Release issued by Walgreen Co., dated June 5, 2006
   
   
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Contact:
Michael Polzin of Walgreens,
(847) 914-2925
Alan Levin of Happy Harry's, (302) 366-0335
June 5, 2006            NYSE, NASDAQ: WAG
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE          
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
INTERNET: http://www.walgreens.com
 
 
 Walgreens vice president of store operation
   
s Frank Grilli, who will lead the integration of the new stores, said, "Happy Harrys customers will see the same service levels and same employees in the stores. Their knowledge of their customers and markets will be invaluable.
 
 "We plan to keep the name and look of the stores the same, while over time evaluating the benefits of incorporating or substituting the Walgreens name," added Grilli. "The only exceptions to this are the eight stores in Pennsylvania, where the decision has already been made to convert the stores to the Walgreens name because of our stronger branding there."
   
 
 Walgreens also recognizes the relationships Happy Harrys has built with many Delaware community organizations. "Our companies have similar histories," said Bernauer. "Theyre family-founded with a family name and family involvement. Being part of the community is another common value we share, and we look forward to Alan continuing to direct that involvement in the region."
   
 
 Walgreens expects to continue accepting all prescription insurance plans currently taken by Happy Harrys after the transaction closes. Once Happy Harrys pharmacy patients are part of Walgreens Intercom Plus pharmacy computer system, they can have their prescriptions accessed and filled at any of the more than 5,200 Walgreens nationwide.
   
 
 Walgreen Co. is the nation's largest drugstore chain with fiscal 2005 sales of $42.2 billion. The company operates 5,251 stores in 45 states and Puerto Rico. Walgreens also provides additional services to pharmacy patients and prescription drug and medical plans through Walgreens Health Services, its managed care division, which includes Walgreens Health Initiatives Inc. (a pharmacy benefits manager), Walgreens Mail Service Inc., Walgreens Home Care Inc. and Walgreens Specialty Pharmacy.
   


