FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20061004160514.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Item 5.02. DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR PRINCIPAL OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF PRINCIPAL OFFICERS.
 
 
(d) The Board of Directors of Walgreen Co. (the "Company") elected Nancy M. Schlichting to the Board effective October 1, 2006. The size of the Company's Board of Directors was increased to twelve in connection with this appointment.
 
There are no arrangements or understandings between Ms. Schlichting and any other person pursuant to which Ms. Schlichting was selected as a director.
As of the date of this report, Ms. Schlichting has not
been named to serve on any committee of the Board, nor has it been determined to which committee or committees, if
any, she may be named in the future.
 
A copy of the press release announcing Ms. Schlichting's election is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Exhibit
 
 
 
Number
 
 
 
Description
Exhibit 99.1
  
   
Press Release issued by Walgreen Co., dated October 2, 2006
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Contact: Michael Polzin
(847) 914-2925
October 2, 2006            NYSE, NASDAQ: WAG
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE          
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
INTERNET: http://www.walgreens.com
 
D
EERFIELD, Ill. - Walgreen Co. today announced Nancy M. Schlichting, president and chief executive officer of Henry Ford Health System in Detroit, has been elected to its board of directors effective Oct. 1. Schlichting, who joins the board as an independent director, becomes the boards 12
th
member.
 
 "Nancy brings a unique perspective as head of one of the largest and most respected integrated healthcare delivery systems in the country," said Dave Bernauer, chairman of Walgreens. "The healthcare industry, including pharmacies, needs to find better ways to deliver care and ensure healthcare dollars are being spent wisely. Nancy understands the business needs of healthcare while demonstrating true compassion for patients."
   
 
 
 Schlichting joined Henry Ford in 1998 as senior vice president and chief administrative officer. She was promoted to executive vice president and chief operating officer the following year and assumed the additional responsibility of president and chief executive officer of Henry Ford Hospital in 2001. She was named president and CEO of the healthcare system in June 2003.
   
 
Prior to joining Henry Ford Health System, Schlichting was executive vice president and chief operating officer of Summa Health System in Akron, Ohio. She has also served as
president of the Eastern Region of Catholic Health Initiatives, president and chief executive officer of Riverside Methodist Hospitals and executive vice president and chief operating officer of Akron City Hospital.
 
Schlichting serves on numerous community, professional and corporate boards including the Michigan Health and Hospital Association, Greater Detroit Area Health Council, Kresge Foundation, Fifth Third Bank of Eastern Michigan, Mayors Time and Detroit Regional Chamber.
 
 About Walgreen Co.
   
 
 Walgreen Co. is the nation's largest drugstore chain with fiscal 2006 sales of $47.4 billion. The company operates 5,461 stores in 47 states and Puerto Rico, and plans to operate more than 7,000 stores by 2010. Walgreens also provides additional services to pharmacy patients and prescription drug and medical plans through Walgreens Health Initiatives (a pharmacy benefits manager), Walgreens Mail Service, Walgreens Specialty Pharmacy and Walgreens Home Care.
   
 
 About Henry Ford Health System
   
 
 Henry Ford Health System, one of the countrys largest health care systems, integrates primary and specialty care with research and education. It includes the 900-member Henry Ford Medical Group, five owned hospitals, the 564,000-member Health Alliance Plan, 25 primary care centers and many other health-related entities located throughout southeastern Michigan.
   


