FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20070821100756.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     
On July 2, 2007, Walgreen Co., an Illinois corporation (the "Company") and Bison Acquisition Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ("Acquisition Sub"), announced they had entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Option Care, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Option Care"). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Acquisition Sub commenced a cash tender offer to acquire all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Option Care, par value $0.01 per share (the "Shares"), at a price of $19.50 per Share, upon the terms and subject to the conditions disclosed in the Offer to Purchase included in the tender offer statement on Schedule TO and in the related Letter of Transmittal (as amended or supplemented from time to time) filed by the Company and Acquisition Sub with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on July 17, 2007 (the "Offer").
     
The initial period of the Offer expired at 12:00 midnight, New York City Time, at the end of Monday, August 13, 2007. On August 14, 2007, the Company announced in a press release that Acquisition Sub had commenced a subsequent offering period to acquire all remaining untendered Shares. The subsequent offering period expired at 5:00 p.m., New York City Time, on Friday, August 17, 2007. On August 20, 2007, the Company announced in a press release that according to Computershare Trust Company, N.A., the depositary for the Offer, as of 5:00 p.m., New York City Time, August 17, 2007, a total of approximately 32.7 million Shares were validly tendered in the initial and subsequent offering periods of the Offer, which represent approximately 94% of all outstanding Shares. Acquisition Sub has accepted for payment all Shares tendered during the subsequent offering period pursuant to the terms of the Offer.
     
Pursuant to a short-form merger procedure available under Delaware law, Acquisition Sub filed a Certificate of Ownership and Merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on August 20, 2007 whereupon the Merger became effective (the "Merger"). In the Merger, each remaining Share (other than Shares purchased in the Offer and certain other shares) was converted into the right to receive $19.50 per share in cash, without interest.
     
Effective as of the close of trading on August 20, 2007, the Shares are no longer traded on the Nasdaq.
     
The full text of the press release issued by Walgreens on August 20, 2007 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:
                                    
Exhibit
Description
99.1 Press Release, dated August 20, 2007 by Walgreen Co.
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

DEERFIELD, Ill., Aug. 20, 2007 - Walgreens (NYSE:WAG) (NASDAQ:WAG) announced today that Bison Acquisition Sub Inc., its wholly owned subsidiary, has successfully completed its tender offer for Option Care, Inc. (NASDAQ: OPTN) and that the acquisition will be completed shortly.          
Through the initial tender offer that expired at midnight eastern time on Aug. 13, 2007, and the subsequent tender offer that expired at 5 p.m. eastern time on Aug. 17, 2007, a total of approximately 32.7 million shares of Option Care common stock were tendered, representing approximately 94 percent of all outstanding Option Care shares. 
          Walgreens will complete the acquisition of Option Care by means of a merger, in which each remaining outstanding Option Care share (other than shares purchased in the tender offer and certain other shares) will be converted into the right to receive $19.50 in cash, without interest. As a result of the merger, Option Care will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Walgreens. Walgreens expects to complete the merger shortly, pursuant to a short-form merger procedure available under Delaware law. Following the merger, Option Care common stock will no longer be traded on the Nasdaq.
About Walgreens
Walgreen Co. is the nation's largest drugstore chain with fiscal 2006 sales of $47.4 billion. The company operates 5,850 stores in 48 states and Puerto Rico,
including 77 Happy Harry's stores in Delaware and surrounding states. Walgreens is expanding its patient-first health care services beyond traditional pharmacy
through Walgreens Health Services, its managed care division, and Take Care Health Systems, a wholly-owned subsidiary that manages convenient care clinics
inside drugstores. Walgreens Health Services assists pharmacy patients and prescription drug and medical plans through Walgreens Health Initiatives, Inc. (a
pharmacy benefits manager), Walgreens Mail Servic e Inc., Walgreens Home Care Inc., and Walgreens Specialty Pharmacy.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties (as such "forward-looking" statements are defined under the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act). The following factors, among others, could cause results to differ materially from management expectations as projected in such forward-looking statements: the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; social and political conditions such as war, political unrest and terrorism or natural disasters; and general economic conditions and normal business uncertainty and competition and its effect on pricing, spending, third-party re lationships and revenues. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release, and no undertaking has been made to update or revise them if there are changes in expectations or if any events, conditions or circumstances on which any such forward-looking statement is based. Investors are referred and encouraged to read the "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in Walgreens most recent Form 10-K, as amended, as well as the "Forward-Looking Statements" section of Option Care's Form 10-K, each of which is incorporated into this news release by reference.


