FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20071005155039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
 
On October 1, 2007, Walgreen Co. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter and fiscal year ended August 31, 2007. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
In addition to the issuance of a press release, Walgreen Co. also conducted a webcast regarding results for the quarter and fiscal year ended August 31, 2007. A transcript of this webcast is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
This information, including exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to this Form 8-K in such a filing.
Item 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 (d) The following exhibits are being furnished as part of this Form 8-K:
   
 
Exhibit
 
 
 
Number
 
 
 
Description
Exhibit 99.1
  
   
Press Release issued by Walgreen Co., dated October 1, 2007, announcing the results for the quarter and
   fiscal 
   
   
   
year ended August
31, 2007.
Exhibit 99.2
  
   
Transcript of Walgreen Co.'s October 1, 2007 Webcast regarding the results for the quarter and fiscal year
   ended August 31, 2007.
   
   
   
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Contact:  Michael Polzin
 (847) 914-2925
 
                                                                                                                 INTERNET:  http://news.walgreens.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
DEERFIELD, Ill., Oct. 1, 2007  Walgreens (NYSE, NASDAQ: WAG) today announced its 33 consecutive year of record earnings and sales. The company also reported a decline in fourth quarter earnings due in part to lower reimbursements on some popular generic drugs and higher expenses.
rd
Fiscal year net earnings increased 16.6 percent to $2.04 billion versus last years $1.75 billion. Net earnings per share for fiscal 2007 increased 18.0 percent to $2.03 per share (diluted) versus $1.72 per share (diluted) the previous year.Net earnings for the fourth quarter declined 3.8 percent to $397 million or 40 cents per share (diluted) versus last years $412 million or 41 cents per share (diluted).
The LIFO index increased in the fourth quarter because of higher than expected inflation among pharmacy inventories. As a result, while overall inflation was lower in 2007 than in 2006, the LIFO provision was $32.0 million this quarter versus $26.1 million in the year-ago period.
This quarter was negatively impacted by lower generic drug reimbursements, combined with higher salary and store expenses, and higher advertising costs, said Chairman Jeffrey A. Rein. Our expenses werent in line with the level of reimbursements we were receiving. Managing both expenses and lower reimbursements on some generic drugs is my top priority. Were going to fix this, and at the same time continue our aggressive growth plan.
Generics such as simvastatin (the generic version of Zocor) saw a significant reduction in gross profit dollars during the fourth quarter. Retail pharmacies typically see the highest gross profit dollars in the first few months after a generic prescription drug becomes available, and simvastatin entered the market in late June 2006.
In the case of some blockbuster generic drugs, its difficult to grow profit dollars after their first few months of availability, said President Greg Wasson. As this quarter shows, pharmacy gross profit margins on some drugs can increase on a percentage basis even while the gross profit dollars they produce fall.
The company saw this play out to a significant factor in the fourth quarter. For example, Walgreens filled nearly three times as many prescriptions for simvastatin in this years fourth quarter compared to the year-ago quarter, yet the companys gross profit dollars from the drug were virtually the same this year as they were a year ago.
Sales rose 10.3 percent to $13.4 billion in the fourth quarter and 13.4 percent to $53.8 billion for the year. Total sales in comparable drugstores (those open more than a year) were up 6.3 percent for the quarter and 8.1 percent for the year, while front-end comparable drugstore sales rose 6.1 percent in the quarter and 5.8 percent for the year.
For the 52-week period ending Aug. 11, Walgreens increased its market share in 59 of its top 60 product categories compared to food, drug and mass merchandise competitors, as measured by A.C. Nielsen.
Prescription sales, which accounted for 65.0 percent of total sales in fiscal 2007, climbed 10.5 percent in the fourth quarter and 14.7 percent for the year. Prescription sales in comparable drugstores rose 6.5 percent in the quarter and 9.5 percent for the year, while the number of prescriptions filled in comparable drugstores rose 4.0 percent in the quarter and 5.7 percent for the year. In the fourth quarter, we faced a tough comparison to the surge of Medicare Part D
prescriptions we saw in 2006, the first year of that program, said Wasson.
Overall, Walgreens filled 583 million prescriptions in fiscal 2007, an increase of 10.0 percent from the previous year. Walgreens now fills nearly 17 percent of all retail prescriptions in the country.
Gross profit margins increased 34 basis points versus the year-ago quarter to 27.98 as a percent to sales, including the LIFO provision previously mentioned. Pharmacy margins increased, but some of that benefit was offset by an overall shift toward the pharmacy business, which carries lower margins than front-end merchandise. Margins on the front end also increased as a result of a shift in mix toward higher margin items.
Fourth quarter selling, occupancy and administration expenses increased 103 basis points from the previous year, from 22.45 to 23.48 as a percent to sales, primarily due to increases in salaries and store expenses, and advertising costs. The impact of new, lower-cost generic drugs, which slowed pharmacy sales growth by 5.0 percentage points and total sales growth by 3.1 percentage points in the quarter, continued to affect expense ratios.
The company benefited from a lower tax rate in this years fourth quarter of 35.0 percent compared to 36.7 percent in the year-ago quarter, primarily the result of a lower effective state tax rate.
Including acquisitions, Walgreens expansion program resulted in a record net gain of 536 new stores in fiscal 2007. As of Aug. 31, the company operated 5,997 stores in 48 states and Puerto Rico versus 5,461 a year ago, and anticipates opening 550 new stores in fiscal 2008, with a net increase of more than 475 stores after relocations and closings. Walgreens is on track to exceed its goal of operating 7,000 stores in 2010.
We have a three-part strategy for growth, and the first part is to continue what we do best  grow stores, said Wasson. Were committed to organic store growth, yet at the same time were more open to acquisitions when the right opportunity arises.
The second part of our growth strategy is expanding into adjacent sectors of pharmacy and health care service. For example, in August we acquired Option Care, Inc., a national specialty pharmacy and home infusion services provider. This move makes us the fourth-largest specialty pharmacy provider in the country and the largest home infusion provider.
The final part of our growth strategy is using our existing store space to drive customer traffic through new services like printer cartridge refills and convenient care clinics. We have more than 65 clinics open today, and by the end of calendar 2008 our goal is to have more than 400.
Take Care Health Systems, the wholly-owned subsidiary of Walgreens that manages the clinics, is opening clinics in nine new markets this fall, including Cincinnati, Cleveland, Houston, Las Vegas, Miami, Nashville, Tenn., Orlando, Fla., Tampa, Fla. and Tucson, Ariz. Combined with expansion in existing markets, up to 100 new Take Care Health Clinics will open this fall.
Walgreens estimates more than $2 billion in capital investments for fiscal 2008. This reflects expenditures for new stores, technology and a new distribution center in Connecticut scheduled to open in fiscal 2009.
For additional information on the quarters results, investors can listen to a recorded Webcast on Walgreens Investor Relations Web site at:  http://investor.walgreens.com.
This news release may contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.  The following factors could cause results to differ materially from management expectations as projected in such forward-looking statements: seasonal variations, competition, risks of new business areas, the availability and cost of real estate and construction, and changes in federal or state legislation or regulations.  Investors are referred to the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in the Companys most recent Form 10-K, as amended, which Note is incorporated into this news release by reference.
 

 
Oct. 1, 2007
Hello, and welcome to Walgreens audio Webcast for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ending Aug. 31, 2007.  Im Rick Hans, Walgreens Director of Finance, and Id like to thank you for tuning in.  We invite you to use this information in conjunction with the press release and other financial information posted on our Web site.
Safe Harbor Language
Before we begin, Id like to go over the safe harbor language.  Certain statements and projections of future results made in this presentation constitute forward-looking information that is based on current market, competitive and regulatory expectations that involve risk and uncertainty. Please see our Form 10-K, as amended, for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006, for a discussion of factors as they relate to forward-looking statements.
[Preliminary and unaudited]
Sales and Earnings
Today we announced our 33 consecutive year of record sales and profits, although earnings in the fourth quarter decreased.
rd
Fiscal 2007 sales were up 13.4 percent to a record $53.8 billion, while fiscal year net earnings rose 16.6 percent to $2.04 billion or $2.03 per share, diluted  also a record. For the fourth quarter ended Aug. 31, sales were up 10.3 percent to a record $13.4 billion. Net earnings for the fourth quarter declined 3.8 percent to $397 million or 40 cents per share, diluted.
As we mentioned in our press release, this quarter experienced several factors that drove down our profits. They included:
 
 
 
 
Despite the fourth quarter, we recorded a strong fiscal year performance with earnings up 16.6 percent and earnings per diluted share up 18.0 percent.
I should point out that store sales continued their strong results in the fourth quarter. Front-end comparable drugstore sales  for stores open more than a year  rose 6.1 percent, while the number of prescriptions filled at comparable stores rose 4.0 percent. Thats a solid number, especially when you take into consideration last years lift from Medicare Part D by looking at the two-year stacked comparable prescriptions filled increases. Those figures show an 11 percent increase in the fourth quarter.
The fourth quarter saw our expansion program continue unabated, with the opening of 269 new or acquired stores that lifted us to a record 621 new stores for the year. That includes 120 acquired stores, 58 of which came from our Option Care, Inc. acquisition. After relocations and closings, we had a record net gain of 536 stores this year. For fiscal 2008, we plan to open about 550 new drugstores, including our first store in Hawaii in November.
Taking a closer look at our sales, total comparable drugstore sales continue to be strong, increasing 6.3 percent for the quarter and 8.1 percent for the year. Pharmacy sales climbed 10.5 percent in the fourth quarter and 14.7 percent for the year. Pharmacy sales in comparable drugstores rose 6.5 percent in the quarter and 9.5 percent for the year.
As we dispense more generic drugs, they slow our pharmacy sales increases because of their lower price. Thats why we believe a better indicator of pharmacy performance is the number of prescriptions filled. In fiscal 2007, that number increased 10.0 percent to 583 million, or nearly 17 percent of all retail prescriptions in the country. On a comparable store basis, the number of prescriptions filled in fiscal 2007 increased 5.7 percent.
 
2
 
Gross Profit Marginsand SO&A
 
Our gross profit margins for the fourth quarter increased 34 basis points versus the year-ago quarter to 27.98 as a percent to sales. This quarter includes a LIFO charge of $32.0 million versus a charge of $26.1 million a year ago. The total LIFO charge in fiscal 2007 was $69.3 million versus $95.3 million the previous year.
Pharmacy margins increased, but some of that benefit was offset by an overall shift toward the pharmacy business, which carries lower margins than front-end merchandise. This quarter also vividly demonstrated that pharmacy gross profit margins on some drugs can increase on a percentage basis even while the gross profit dollars they produce fall.
Front end margins increased as a result of a shift in sales mix to higher margin items.
Fourth quarter selling, occupancy and administration expenses increased 15.3 percent or 103 basis points from the previous year, from 22.45 to 23.48 as a percent to sales. SO&A margins were impacted by new, lower-cost generic drugs, which slowed pharmacy sales growth by 5.0 percentage points and total sales growth by 3.1 percentage points in the quarter. The amount spent on SO&A grew because of higher salary and store expenses and increased advertising costs. We have begun a rigorous review of all expense items and will quickly take the necessary steps to better control them.
Tax Rate
We benefited from a lower tax rate in this years fourth quarter of 35.0 percent compared to 36.7 percent in the year-ago quarter, primarily the result of a lower effective state tax rate.
 
3
 
From the Balance Sheet and Statement of Cash Flows
The consolidated balance sheet and statement of cash flows can be found with our press release. For the year, cash and short-term investments decreased from $1.34 billion at the end of last years fourth quarter to a net commercial paper issuance of $624 million at the end of this years fourth quarter. Youll recall that we closed on the $850 million acquisition of Option Care, Inc., in this years fourth quarter. Other factors also contributed to the change in our cash position.
Accounts receivable increased 8.4 percent, while accounts payable decreased 7.6 percent.
LIFO inventories increased 12.2 percent versus a year ago on a fourth quarter sales gain of 10.3 percent.
Finally on the statement of cash flows, capital expenditures in fiscal 2007 were $1.8 billion compared to $1.3 billion in 2006. The company expects to invest more than $2 billion in fiscal 2008 on capital investments, including new stores, technology and a new distribution center in Connecticut scheduled to open in fiscal 2009.
Share Repurchase Plan
For the fiscal year 2007, we repurchased 15.5 million shares of stock for $688 million. Approximately half of those shares were repurchased under our 2004 share repurchase program, and the other half were purchased under our four-year, $1 billion share repurchase plan announced in January 2007.
Wrapup
While we wrapped up our 33 consecutive year of record sales and earnings, we know our fourth quarter performance isnt what shareholders expect. Many of the challenges we faced in this quarter will continue, including comparisons to last years blockbuster generics and growth in Medicare Part D prescriptions. But were confident of our ability to manage these challenges in a the way our investors expect us to. This is our top priority, and were confident we will better manage expense control and lower reimbursements going forward.
rd
We feel that the fundamentals of our business remain strong. Growth in pharmacy sales will continue as the population ages; our store managers and corporate merchandisers will keep up the innovation thats driving great front-end comparable sales increases; and new product and service introductions will give customers more reasons to shop our stores.
Expansion will continue on all fronts. We plan to open 550 new stores in fiscal 2008 for a net gain of 475 stores after relocations and closings. In addition, well look at acquisitions when the right opportunity arises. And Take Care Health Systems, our subsidiary that manages convenient care clinics inside our drugstores, will grow dramatically over the next year with plans to have more than 400 clinics open by the end of calendar 2008. These investments are important drivers for the companys future performance.
Thank you for listening. Our next earnings announcement, for the first quarter of fiscal 2008, is scheduled for Dec. 21. Once again, thanks for being a Walgreen shareholder, and remember, Youre Always Welcome at Walgreens!
st


