FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20070629161216.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
 
On June 25, 2007, Walgreen Co. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended May 31, 2007.  A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
In addition to the issuance of a press release, Walgreen Co. also conducted a webcast regarding results for the quarter ended May 31, 2007.  A transcript of this webcast is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
This information, including exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to this Form 8-K in such a filing.
Item 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 (d) The following exhibits are being furnished as part of this Form 8-K:
   
 
Exhibit
 
 
 
Number
 
 
 
Description
Exhibit 99.1
  
   
Press Release issued by Walgreen Co., dated June 25, 2007, announcing the results for the quarter ended May 31, 2007.
Exhibit 99.2
  
   
Transcript of Walgreen Co.'s June 25, 2007 Webcast regarding the results for the quarter ended May 31, 2007.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
Contact: Michael Polzin
(847) 914-2925
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
         
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
INTERNET: http://www.walgreens.com
DEERFIELD, Ill., June 25, 2007 - Walgreen Co. (NYSE, NASDAQ: WAG) today reported a 19.6 percent net earnings increase in the third quarter of fiscal 2007.
With 352 new store openings (including 43 acquisitions) in the first nine months of the fiscal year, Walgreens is on track to reach its goal of opening 500 new stores in fiscal 2007, including more than 400 net new stores after relocations and closings. The company plans to surpass 500 store openings in 2008.
Net earnings for the quarter ended May 31 were up 19.6 percent to $561 million or 56 cents per share (diluted), from $469 million or 46 cents per share (diluted) in the same quarter a year ago. This years quarter includes a $13.5 million credit from the resolution of a multiyear state tax matter, compared to a $13.6 million tax credit in the year-ago quarter from the settlement of prior years federal tax matters.
 
Walgreens also decreased its LIFO inflation index in the third quarter, resulting in a LIFO credit of $3.5 million this quarter versus a provision of $24.2 million in the year-ago period. The lower index reflects less inflation than anticipated among pharmacy inventories.
Net earnings for the nine months climbed 22.9 percent to $1.64 billion or $1.63 per share (diluted), versus last years $1.34 billion or $1.31 per share (diluted). This years nine-month earnings also benefited from the lower LIFO rate, while both this years and last years nine-month earnings include the previously mentioned tax benefits.
 
 
The growth opportunity we have ahead of us is exciting, said CEO Jeffrey A. Rein. With the first of 78 million baby boomers turning 65 in 2011, the demand for pharmacy services will get bigger and bigger. We intend to be the best-positioned pharmacy chain in the country to serve that need, and were on track to exceed our goal of 7,000 stores in 2010.
Sales increased 12.5 percent to a record $13.7 billion for the third quarter and 14.5 percent to $40.3 billion for the first nine months. Total sales in comparable drugstores (those open more than a year) were up 7.8 percent in the quarter, while front-end comparable drugstore sales rose 5.6 percent.
Prescription sales, which accounted for 65.9 percent of total sales in the quarter, climbed 13.8 percent. Prescription sales in comparable drugstores rose 9.0 percent in the quarter, while the number of prescriptions filled in comparable drugstores increased 5.4 percent. Third party plans accounted for 94.8 percent of all prescription sales in the quarter.
For the most recently reported 52-week period, Walgreens increased its market share in 56 of its top 60 product categories compared to food, drug and mass merchandise competitors, as measured by A.C. Nielsen.
Were now in our fourth consecutive year of front-end comparable store sales increases in excess of 5 percent, said President Gregory D. Wasson. Our store locations prove their worth every day by attracting customers looking for a convenient place to shop.
Gross profit margins increased 84 basis points versus the year-ago quarter to 28.30 as a percent to sales, as both pharmacy and front-end margins showed improvement. While pharmacy margins increased with the growth in generic drug sales, some of that benefit was offset by an overall sales shift toward the pharmacy business, which carries lower margins than front-end merchandise. Margins on the front-end increased as a result of a shift in mix toward higher margin items. The lower LIFO inflation index in the quarter also helped gross profit margins.
Third quarter selling, occupancy and administration expenses increased 41 basis points from the previous year, from 21.65 to 22.06 as a percent to sales, primarily due to increases in store level salaries and expenses. The impact of new, lower-cost generic drugs, which slowed
pharmacy sales growth by 5.1 percentage points and total sales growth by 3.4 percentage points in the quarter, continued to affect expense ratios.
Operating income for the third quarter increased 43 basis points over the previous year to 6.24 as a percent to sales.
In recent news, Walgreens also announced:
  The official opening of its Anderson, S.C., distribution center, the first facility of its kind to employ a significant number of people with disabilities. More than 42 percent of the facilitys current workforce of about 275 employees has a physical or cognitive disability. Walgreens designed the facility, which will be 20 percent more efficient than the companys previous generation of distribution centers, to employ a large number of people with disabilities while holding them to the same performance standards as all team members. The employees with disabilities earn the same pay and benefits as other employees for the same work.
  Its acquisition of convenient care clinic operator Take Care Health Systems. Take Care Health has distinguished itself from other convenient clinic operators through an integrated approach to the patients long-term well-being, as well as providing prompt and accessible treatment. The clinics will form the core for the future expansion of a variety of patient-focused health care services. Walgreens plans an initial rollout of more than 400 convenient care clinics by the end of calendar 2008.
  CEO Jeffrey A. Rein will become chairman, effective July 11, replacing David W. Bernauer, who will retire at that time from the board of directors. Rein will retain his CEO title, while Gregory D. Wasson replaced him on May 1 as president and chief operating officer.
At May 31, Walgreens operated 5,751 drugstores in 48 states and Puerto Rico, versus
5,251 a year ago.
For additional information on the quarters results, investors can listen to a recorded Webcast discussion on Walgreens Investor Relations Web site at: http://investor.walgreens.com.
This news release may contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The following factors could cause results to differ materially from management expectations as projected in such forward-looking statements: seasonal variations, competition, risks of new business areas, the availability and cost of real estate and construction, and changes in federal or state legislation or regulations. Investors are referred to the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in the Companys most recent Form 10-K, as amended, which Note is incorporated into this news release by reference.

June 25, 2007
Hello, and thanks for tuning in to Walgreens audio webcast for the third quarter of fiscal year 2007. Im Rick Hans, Walgreens Director of Finance, and I invite you to use this information in conjunction with the press release and other financial information posted on our Web site.
Safe Harbor Language
Before we begin, Id like to go over the safe harbor language. Certain statements and projections of future results made in this presentation constitute forward-looking information that is based on current market, competitive and regulatory expectations that involve risk and uncertainty. Please see our Form 10-K, as amended, for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006, for a discussion of factors as they relate to forward-looking statements.
[Preliminary and unaudited]
Sales and Earnings
Today we announced third quarter earnings were up 19.6 percent to $561 million, or 56 cents per share (diluted). That came on a sales increase of 12.5 percent to $13.7 billion. This years quarter includes a $13.5 million credit from the resolution of a multiyear state tax matter, compared to a $13.6 million tax credit in the year-ago quarter from the settlement of prior years federal tax matters.
We also decreased our LIFO inflation index in the third quarter, resulting in a LIFO credit of $3.5 million this quarter versus a provision of $24.2 million in the year-ago period. The lower index reflects less inflation than anticipated among pharmacy inventories.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2007, sales increased 14.5 percent to $40.3 billion. Net earnings rose 22.9 percent to $1.64 billion or $1.63 per share (diluted). This years nine-month earnings also benefited from the lower LIFO rate, while both this years and last years nine-month earnings include the previously mentioned tax benefits.
 
Front-end, or non-pharmacy, sales continued a strong showing in the quarter. During the most recently reported 52-week period, we gained market share in 56 of our top 60 core product categories versus our drugstore, grocery and mass merchant competitors compared to a year ago.
This years store growth continues on target. We opened 129 new stores in the third quarter, including 35 acquisitions. For the first nine months of the fiscal year we opened 352 stores, including 43 acquired stores. That puts us on schedule to open about 500 new stores in fiscal 2007, including more than 400 net new locations. Our store count as of May 31 is 5,751, a net increase of exactly 500 from a year ago. Were on track to exceed 7,000 stores in 2010.
Comparable Sales
Taking a closer look at sales, total comparable drugstore sales - for stores open more than a year - were up 7.8 percent in the quarter, while front-end comparable drugstore sales rose 5.6 percent.
Pharmacy sales climbed 13.8 percent overall and 9.0 percent on a comparable drugstore basis in the quarter. The number of prescriptions filled in comparable drugstores rose 5.4 percent.
Gross Profit Margins
 
and SO&A
Gross profit margins increased 84 basis points versus the year-ago quarter to 28.30 as a percent to sales. Both pharmacy and front-end margins showed improvement.
While pharmacy margins increased with the growth in generic drug sales, some of that benefit was offset by an overall sales shift toward the pharmacy business, which carries lower margins than front-end merchandise. Margins on the front-end increased as a result of a shift in mix toward higher margin items. The lower LIFO inflation index in the quarter also helped gross profit margins.
Meanwhile, selling, occupancy and administration expenses increased 41 basis points to 22.06 as a percent to sales, mostly due to increases in store level salaries and expenses. The impact of new, lower-cost generic drugs, which slowed pharmacy sales growth by 5.1 percentage points and total sales growth by 3.4 percentage points in the quarter, continued to affect expense ratios.
Operating income for the third quarter increased 43 basis points over the previous year to 6.24 as a percent to sales.
Tax Rate
The effective tax rate for the third quarter this year was 35.20 percent, compared to 35.12 percent in last years third quarter. The effective tax rate for the first nine months of this year was 36.23 percent, compared to 36.35 percent in the year ago period. We expect our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter to be 36.75 percent.
[Preliminary and unaudited]
From the Balance Sheet
The consolidated balance sheet and statement of cash flows can be found within our press release. Cash and short-term investments decreased from $1.8 billion at the end of last years third quarter to $758 million at the end of this years third quarter.
Accounts receivable decreased 1.9 percent and accounts payable decreased 0.6 percent. The declines are a result of less Medicare Part D business in our pharmacy benefit management unit. Youll recall our PBMs contract with UnitedHealth Groups Ovations unit ended last Dec. 31.
LIFO inventories were $6.46 billion, a 16.5 percent increase from the year ago quarter. Pharmacy inventories in the stores were impacted by recent generic introductions, which left us with some excess supply of brand medicines. In addition, warehouse inventories were impacted by the new distribution center opening in Anderson, South Carolina.
From the Statement of Cash Flows
Meanwhile, for the first nine months depreciation and amortization increased 21.3 percent from $409 million to $496 million. This is due, in part, to the amortization of intangibles from prescription file buys and the acquisitions of the Happy Harrys pharmacy chain and Medmark Specialty Pharmacy Solutions. Capital expenditures for the nine months were $1.25 billion versus $907 million last year.
Share Repurchase Plan
Since announcing a new $1 billion share repurchase plan in January, weve repurchased 5.6 million shares of stock for $257 million.
Wrapup
During the past quarter, our main focus - and biggest opportunity - continued to be drugstore expansion. This will drive our companys growth well into the future as we remain on track to operate more than 7,000 stores in 2010. And as more industry consolidation takes place, well consider select acquisitions, such as the one that resulted in this quarters opening of 30 former Familymeds Group pharmacies.
Were also looking for other pharmacy-related health care opportunities, which is why we acquired convenient care clinic operator Take Care Health Systems in May. Our initial rollout of more than 400 clinics by the end of calendar 2008 wont have the same impact as opening 400 drugstores, but they will be central to our future expansion of other patient-focused health care services.
Another milestone reached during the quarter was the opening of our 12th distribution center in Anderson, South Carolina. This new facility is special because of the inclusive work environment that our distribution and logistics division created. More than 42 percent of the facilitys current workforce of 275 has a physical or cognitive disability, making it the first facility of its kind to employ a significant number of people with disabilities. Randy Lewis, our senior vice president of distribution and logistics who led the way to create this work environment, always points out that this isnt charity work. Instead, employees with disabilities work side-by-side with all other facility employees, earning the same pay and benefits, doing the same work and meeting the same productivity goals. On top of all of that, the distribution center will be 20 percent more efficient than our previous generation of DCs.
As Walgreen shareholders, you can take as much - or more - pride in this initiative as anything else the company is doing. Well have the same hiring approach with our next distribution center scheduled to open in 2009 in Connecticut, where we again hope to surpass our goal of hiring a workforce where at least 30 percent of the facilitys employees have a disability. You can learn more about this effort on the Internet at
www.walgreensoutreach.com
.
Thank you for listening. Our next earnings announcement, for the fourth quarter and fiscal year-end of 2007, is scheduled for Oct. 1st. Once again, thanks for being a loyal Walgreen shareholder, and remember, Youre Always Welcome at Walgreens!


