FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20080623080021.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On June 23, 2008, Walgreen Co. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended May 31, 2008. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
This information, including exhibits attached hereto and the information under Item 7.01 below, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. This information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to this Form 8-K in such a filing.
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure.
In addition to issuing a press release, Walgreen Co. is also conducting a conference call and webcast regarding results for the quarter ended May 31, 2008.  Slides prepared for the purposes of the conference call are available on the Walgreens investor relations Web site at http://investor.walgreens.com.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Form 8-K:
                   
Exhibit No.
Description
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Contact:  Michael Polzin
    (847) 914-2925
                                                                                               http://news.walgreens.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
DEERFIELD, Ill., June 23, 2008  Walgreens (NYSE, NASDAQ: WAG) today announced record sales and earnings for the fiscal year 2008 third quarter and first nine months.
Net earnings for the quarter ended May 31 rose 2.0 percent to $572 million or 58 cents per share (diluted), from $561 million or 56 cents per share (diluted) in the same quarter a year ago. Walgreens recorded a LIFO provision of $16.1 million in this years quarter versus a credit of $3.5 million in last years third quarter. Last years quarter also included a $13.5 million credit from the resolution of a multiyear state tax matter.
Net earnings for the nine months increased 4.2 percent to $1.71 billion or $1.72 per share (diluted), versus last years $1.64 billion or $1.63 per share (diluted). Last years nine-month earnings also benefited from the previously mentioned lower LIFO rate and tax benefit.
In a challenging economy, we continued investing in our future with a relentless focus on cost control, said Walgreens Chairman and CEO Jeffrey A. Rein. We posted solid results while going up against a nearly 20 percent earnings increase in the year-ago quarter and a more robust economic environment. At a time when Americans are searching for value and convenience, were one of the retailers theyre turning to.
 
Strong expense control
 
Selling, general and administrative expense dollars in the current quarter grew 10.0 percent over the year-ago period. Expense control was strong across the company, including a decrease in the rate of store salary and expense growth as well as lower advertising expenses.
Weve consistently proven our ability to control expenses during this fiscal year, while investing in areas that will position us for the long-term success of the company, said Rein. At the same time, we continued to better serve our pharmacy patients, with store-level pharmacy satisfaction levels improving each month during the quarter compared to the year-ago period.
As a percent to sales, SG&A expenses  at 22.1  were essentially flat compared to the year-ago quarter.
Sales increased 9.6 percent to a record $15.0 billion for the third quarter and 10.2 percent to $44.4 billion for the first nine months. Total sales in comparable stores (those open more than a year) were up 3.4 percent in the quarter, while front-end comparable drugstore sales rose 4.6 percent in the quarter.
For the most recently reported 52-week period, ending May 17, Walgreens increased its market share in 59 of its top 60 product categories compared to food, drug and mass merchandise competitors, as measured by A.C. Nielsen.
Prescription sales, which accounted for 65.5 percent of sales in the quarter, climbed 8.9 percent. Prescription sales in comparable stores rose 2.7 percent in the quarter, while the number of prescriptions filled in comparable stores increased 1.1 percent. That compares to a 0.9 percent decrease in U.S. retail prescription volume (excluding Walgreens) during the same period, according to IMS Health and Walgreens figures.
Prescription volume in the quarter was negatively impacted in part by the switch of Zyrtec to over-the-counter status and by a milder flu season.
 
Gross profit dollars up
 
Gross profit dollars increased 9.3 percent in the quarter, slower than the year-ago quarters 16.0 percent increase that was aided by blockbuster generic drug introductions. Gross profit margins decreased from 28.3 in last years quarter to 28.2 this year. Front-end margins decreased as the company expanded its promotional pricing activities, including digital photo promotions, to generate store traffic. That was partially offset by an increase in pharmacy margins due to the growth in generic drug sales.
The company also recorded the previously mentioned LIFO provision in this years quarter versus a LIFO credit in the year-ago period.
Investments in the long-term success of the company continued in the third quarter, with 138 new drugstore openings, 17 more than during last years quarter. In the first nine months of the fiscal year, Walgreens opened a record 420 new drugstores, compared to 339 in the comparable period a year ago, with a net gain of 370 stores after relocations and closings. Walgreens is on track to exceed its goal of opening 550 new drugstores this year, with a net increase of more than 500.
This is absolutely the right time to grow our drugstore business, said President Greg Wasson. Were adding neighborhood locations for todays customer who is searching for value and struggling with high gas prices. These new stores also position us for the 78 million baby boomers who will be major health care consumers in the coming years and decades.
Walgreens will expand its drugstore base by approximately 9 percent in fiscal 2008 and is on track to meet its goal of operating more than 7,000 drugstores by 2010. In May, Walgreens announced plans to open its first stores in Alaska in 2009, giving the company a presence in all 50 states.
New division enhances relationships with large employers, health plans
 
During the quarter, the company also announced the creation of its Walgreens Health and Wellness division, formed in part by the acquisitions of I-trax, Inc. and privately-held Whole Health Management, operators of worksite health centers. The division will allow large
employers and health plans to provide care to employees and plan members at their worksites, and to dependents, retirees and the general public through the companys 172 Take Care Health Clinics that operate at Walgreens drugstores.
Earlier this month, Walgreens announced that its subsidiary, OptionCare Enterprises, Inc., will acquire CuraScript Infusion Pharmacy, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Express Scripts, Inc. The transaction, expected to close within 30 days, will expand Walgreens national coverage in home infusion services through CuraScripts 12 facilities in six states.
Many drugs in the fast-growing specialty pharmacy industry require infusion therapy, and this acquisition brings our national home infusion network closer to patients, said Wasson. Few providers will be able to match our level of personalized therapy and support.
At May 31, Walgreens operated 6,727 locations in 49 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. That includes 6,252 drugstores (554 more than a year ago), as well as worksite health centers, home care facilities and specialty, institutional and mail service pharmacies.
Walgreens will hold a one-hour conference call to discuss the quarters results beginning at 8:30 a.m. eastern time today, June 23. The conference call will be simulcast through Walgreens investor relations Web site at: . A replay of the conference call will be archived on the Web site for 12 months after the call.
http://investor.w
a
lgreens.com
The replay also will be available from 11:30 a.m. eastern time, June 23, through June 30 by calling 888-203-1112 within the U.S. and Canada, or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S. and Canada, using replay code 5766548.
This news release may contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.  The following factors could cause results to differ materially from management expectations as projected in such forward-looking statements: seasonal variations, competition, risks of new business areas, the availability and cost of real estate and construction, and changes in federal or state legislation or regulations.  Investors are referred to the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in the Companys most recent Form 10-K, which Note is incorporated into this news release by reference.
 
 


