FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20080512182109.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 5, 2008
WALGREEN CO.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code: (847) 914-2500
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02     Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On May 12, 2008, Walgreen Co. announced the appointment of Wade D. Miquelon as senior vice president and chief financial officer. He replaces William M. Rudolphsen, who has been named to the new role of senior vice president and chief risk officer. Mr. Miquelon and Mr. Rudolphsen are expected to assume their respective new positions on June 16, 2008. A copy of the related press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Mr. Miquelon, 43, has served as an executive vice president and CFO of Tyson Foods, Inc., the worlds largest processor and marketer of chicken, beef and pork, since 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Miquelon spent 16 years with The Procter & Gamble Company, the worlds largest consumer goods product company, most recently as CFO and General Manager of Western Europe operations.
Mr. Miquelons initial annualized base salary will be $625,000, subject to annual review and adjustment. He will be eligible for annual bonuses, prorated in the case of the current fiscal year, under the Walgreen corporate bonus program, which is based on the companys fiscal year ending August 31, and is subject to Board approval of each years bonus. In addition, Mr. Miquelon will receive a sign-on bonus of $150,000, subject to a one-year vesting/payback requirement. Mr. Miquelon will be eligible to defer this sign-on bonus under the Walgreen Co. Executive Deferred Compensation/Capital Accumulation Plan. Mr. Miquelon will also receive other employee benefits consistent with those received by the companys other senior executives and relocation assistance in accordance with the companys policy for management employees.
In connection with his appointment, Mr. Miquelon will receive the following equity awards:
An option to purchase 30,000 shares of Walgreen Co. common stock with an exercise price per share equal to the fair market value of a share of common stock on the date of grant. This grant will be made pursuant to the Walgreen Co. Executive Stock Option Plan and will vest in three equal installments on each of the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of Mr. Miquelons date of hire.
An option to purchase a number of shares of Walgreen Co. common stock equal to 350% of his base salary (pro-rated for the remainder of the 2008 fiscal year) divided by the option exercise price per share, which will be the fair market value of a share of common stock on the date of grant. This grant will be made pursuant to the Walgreen Co. Executive Stock Option Plan and will vest on the third anniversary of Mr. Miquelons date of hire.
A grant of 30,000 shares of restricted stock under the Walgreen Co. Long-Term Performance Incentive Plan. These shares will vest in three equal installments on each of the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of Mr. Miquelons date of hire.
Mr. Miquelon will also be eligible to receive a pro-rated award as of the end of the 2008 fiscal year under the Restricted Share Performance Program maintained under the Walgreen Co. Long-Term Performance Incentive Plan.
In connection with the commencement of Mr. Miquelons employment, it is expected that he will enter into a Change of Control Employment Agreement with the company in the same form executed by the companys other senior executives.
In accordance with the Instruction to Item 5.02(c) of Form 8-K, the filing of this Form 8-K has been delayed until the date of public announcement of the events described herein.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)       Exhibits
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Walgreens Names Wade D. Miquelon Senior VP and CFO;
William M. Rudolphsen Named to New Role of Chief Risk Officer
DEERFIELD, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Walgreens (NYSE:WAG) (NASDAQ:WAG) today named Wade D. Miquelon senior vice president and chief financial officer, effective June 16. He will replace William M. Rudolphsen, who has been named to the new role of senior vice president and chief risk officer.
Miquelon, who will report to Walgreens Chairman and CEO Jeffrey A. Rein, comes to Walgreens from Springdale, Ark.-based Tyson Foods, Inc., the worlds largest processor and marketer of chicken, beef and pork, where he was an executive vice president and CFO since 2006. Prior to that, Miquelon spent 16 years with The Proctor & Gamble Company, the worlds largest consumer goods product company. During his career there, Miquelon was assigned to the companys headquarters in Cincinnati and offices in Bangkok, Singapore and finally Geneva, Switzerland, where he was general manager and head of finance for Western Europe operations.
Wade brings an excellent combination of financial knowledge, strategic thinking and operational experience, including mergers and acquisitions, that will serve us well, said Rein. He also has a strong background in consumer products and marketing, and is a solid leader with top communication skills. I've enjoyed getting to know Wade and believe hell be a good fit for us in this key role.
As CFO, Miquelon will have responsibility for the companys accounting, tax and treasury functions, including investor relations.
Miquelon, 43, was born and raised in the St. Louis area and earned a bachelor of science degree in civil engineering from Purdue University, West Lafayette, Ind., in 1987, and an M.B.A. in finance and marketing from Washington University, St. Louis, in 1989.
Rudolphsen, 53, becomes the companys first chief risk officer and will continue reporting to Rein. He will oversee the audit, loss prevention, compliance and enterprise risk management functions. Bills 31 years with Walgreens give him the deep knowledge of our companys operations and financial sophistication needed for this position, said Rein. The CRO position is fast becoming a best practice among large companies. Given our size, complexity and the highly-regulated industry in which we operate, separating the financial and audit functions and increasing our focus on risk identification and mitigation is a prudent move. Were glad to have a person of Bills caliber and integrity in such a role.
Rudolphsen joined Walgreens as a staff accountant in 1977 after graduating from Marquette University, Milwaukee, with a bachelor of science degree in accounting. He went on to complete an M.B.A. in finance from DePaul University, Chicago, in 1989. He was named director of third party accounting in 1995 and a divisional vice president and controller in 1998. Rudolphsen was promoted to CFO in 2004.
Walgreens is the nations largest drugstore chain with fiscal 2007 sales of $53.8 billion. The company operates 6,204 drugstores in 49 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Walgreens is expanding its patient-first health care services beyond traditional pharmacy through Walgreens Health Services, its managed care division, and Take Care Health Systems, a wholly owned subsidiary that manages 168 convenient care clinics at Walgreens drugstores. Walgreens Health Services assists pharmacy patients and prescription drug and medical plans through Walgreens Health Initiatives Inc. (a pharmacy benefit manager), Walgreens Mail Service Inc., Walgreens Home Care Inc., Walgreens Specialty Pharmacy LLC and SeniorMed LLC (a pharmacy provider to long-term care facilities). More information about Walgreens is available at Walgreens.com.
CONTACT: Walgreen Co. Michael Polzin (847) 914-2925
http://news.walgreens.com


