FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20080507170827.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
     On April 30, 2008, Putter Acquisition Sub, Inc. (""), a wholly owned subsidiary of Walgreen Co. (""), merged with and into I-trax, Inc. (the ""). The Merger completed the acquisition of I-trax by Walgreens, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 14, 2008 (the ""), among Walgreens, Acquisition Sub and I-trax. In the Merger, each outstanding share of I-trax common stock, par value $.001 per share (the ""), and I-trax Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $.001 per share (the "" and collectively with the Common Stock, the "") (other than Shares owned by Walgreens or any of its affiliates, or Shares held by an I-trax stockholder who perfects his, her or its appraisal rights in connection with the Merger) were converted into the right to receive $5.40 for each share of Common Stock and $54.00 plus the Dividend Amount (as defined below) for each share of Preferred Stock. The "Dividend Amount" payable with respect to the shares of Preferred Stock in the Merger was calculated by dividing the value of accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares at the time of effectiveness of the Merger by $3.84 (which equals the average market price of shares of Common Stock during the ten trading days prior to, and including, March 14, 2008, calculated in accordance with the terms of the Preferred Stock) and multiplying the result by $5.40.
Acquisition Sub
Walgreens
Merger
Merger Agreement
Common Stock
Preferred Stock
Shares
     As a result of the Merger, Walgreens has acquired the business and assets of I-trax.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     On May 1, 2008, Walgreens issued a press release announcing the completion of the merger of Acquisition Sub with and into I-trax. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
\

 
Exhibit 2.2
          Putter Acquisition Sub, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of Delaware (the "Corporation"), hereby certifies that:
          FIRST: The Corporation owns at least 90% of the total outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share (the "Common Shares") and 90% of the total outstanding shares of preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share (the "Preferred Shares" and together with the Common Shares, the "Shares") of I-trax, Inc., a Delaware corporation, incorporated on the 15th day of September, 2000 ("Target").
          SECOND: The Shares constitute all of the outstanding capital stock of Target.
          THIRD: A merger of the Corporation with and into Target has been approved by Walgreen Co. ("Walgreens"), the parent and sole stockholder of the Corporation, on March 28, 2008.
          FOURTH: By unanimous written consent of the Board of Directors of the Corporation dated March 12, 2008, the following resolutions providing for the merger of the Corporation with and into Target were duly adopted:
WHEREAS, the Board believes that it is advisable and in the best interests of the Corporation for the Corporation: (i) to enter into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with the Corporation's parent corporation, Walgreen Co., an Illinois corporation ("Walgreens"), and I-trax, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Target") in the form presented to the Board (the "Merger Agreement"); (ii) to make (A) a cash tender offer to acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of Target ("Common Stock") at a price of $5.40 per share net to the sellers in cash, without interest thereon, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement (the "Common Offer"), and (B) a cash tender offer to acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock of Target ("Preferred Stock" and together with the Common Stock, "Target Stock") at a price of $54.00 per share (equal to the amount that would be payable in connection with the Common Offer in respect of the shares of the Target Common Stock into which such share of Preferred Stock is convertible, plus an amount in respect of accrued and unpaid dividends) net to the sellers in cash, without interest thereon, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement (the "Preferred Offer" and together with the Common Offer, the "Tender Offers"); and (iii) to merge with and into Target upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement following the acquisition by the Corporation of Target Stock validly
 
tendered (and not withdrawn) in the Tender Offers (the merger of the Corporation with and into Target being referred to as the "Merger," and together with the Tender Offers, the "Transactions").
     NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board believes that it is advisable and in the best interests of the Corporation for the Corporation to enter into the Merger Agreement, and the Board hereby approves the Merger Agreement and declares its advisability; and
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that the officers of the Corporation be, and each of them hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed, in the name of and for and on behalf of the Corporation, to execute and deliver the Merger Agreement and any other agreements, certificates and other documents referred to therein or contemplated thereby, and to cause the Corporation to perform its obligations thereunder; and
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that the officers of the Corporation be, and each of them hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to submit the Transactions and the Merger Agreement to the Corporation's sole stockholder for its approval and adoption, in a manner consistent with the provisions of all applicable state and federal laws and to take all such other actions that any of them deem to be necessary or appropriate to obtain the approval and adoption of the Transactions and the Merger Agreement by the Corporation's sole stockholder; and
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that the officers of the Corporation be and each of them hereby is, authorized, empowered, and directed, in the name of and for and on behalf of the Corporation, to take any action necessary or appropriate to commence and purchase shares of Target Stock validly tendered (and not withdrawn) in the Tender Offers, and to make such changes to the terms and conditions of the Tender Offers (consistent with the provisions of the Merger Agreement) as such officers may determine to be necessary or appropriate, such approval to be conclusively evidenced by the filing of a definitive copy of the Offer to Purchase relating to the Tender Offers with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") as an exhibit to the Tender Offer Statement on Schedule TO relating to such Tender Offers (the "Schedule TO"); and
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that the officers of the Corporation be and each of them hereby is, authorized, empowered, and directed, in the name of and for and on behalf of the Corporation, to cause to be prepared, to execute on behalf of the Corporation and to cause to be filed with the Commission the Schedule TO (and all amendments thereto), with such changes as such officers may approve, such approval to be conclusively evidenced by such execution and filing with the Commission, and any other appropriate schedules, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the "Exchange Act"), in connection with the Tender Offers, and to cause to be prepared, to execute and to cause to be filed any other appropriate schedules, statements, reports or documents or any amendments thereto as may be required to be filed with the Commission in connection with the Tender Offers; and
 
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that the officers of the Corporation be, and each of them hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to make from time to time, such changes in the terms and conditions of the Tender Offers that are approved by the appropriate officers of the Corporation, and the appropriate officers of the Corporation are hereby authorized to take all action necessary to cause the Tender Offer to be so amended, including, without limitation, preparing appropriate amendments to the Offer to Purchase relating to the Tender Offers, the Letter of Transmittal relating to the Tender Offers, the Schedule TO and related offering documents; and
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that the officers of the Corporation be and each of them hereby is, authorized, empowered, and directed, in the name of and for and on behalf of the Corporation, at such time as said officers may determine to be appropriate, (i) to deliver a request for a stockholder list pursuant to Rules 14d-5 and 14a-7 of the rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and (ii) in general, to take such other actions that, in the judgment of the officer taking such actions, may be necessary or appropriate in order to obtain a stockholder list, security position listing and related corporate documents and records of Target; and
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Merger is hereby approved, and the payment by the Corporation in cash of the amount per share to be paid for Target Stock in the Tender Offers (as such amount may be adjusted pursuant to the Merger Agreement), without interest thereon, in exchange for each share of Target Stock outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger (other than shares of Target Stock held by the Corporation or Walgreens or any of its other wholly-owned subsidiaries) is hereby authorized and approved; and
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that all prior actions taken by the officers of the Corporation with respect to the preparation and negotiation of each of the Merger Agreements, and each other agreement, document or instrument related to the Transactions be, and each of them hereby is authorized, ratified and approved; and
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that the officers of the Corporation be, and each of them hereby is authorized and directed to take such further action as each may deem necessary or appropriate to carry out the intent of the above resolutions; and
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that each holder of stock of the Corporation shall, upon surrender of any certificates of Corporation stock, be issued, , stock of the corporation surviving the Merger.
pro rata
          FIFTH: The Merger shall be effective as of 4:01 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time on April 30, 2008 (the "Effective Time").
          SIXTH: The Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation shall be amended and restated in its entirety by virtue of the Merger as set forth on attached hereto.
Exhibit A
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Putter Acquisition Sub, Inc. has caused this Certificate of Ownership and Merger to be executed in its corporate name as of the 30th day of April, 2008.

 
Exhibit 99.1
Company looks to offer 10,000 points of care by 2010, including pharmacies and retail and worksite health centers, to deliver health care solutions where people live and work
DEERFIELD, Ill., May 1, 2008  Walgreens (NYSE, NASDAQ: WAG) has completed its acquisitions of I-trax, Inc., parent company of CHD Meridian Healthcare, and privately-held Whole Health Management, two leading companies that together operate more than 350 worksite health centers. The acquired companies' services include primary and acute care, wellness, pharmacy and disease management services and health and fitness programming.
The acquisitions position Walgreens as the leading provider of worksite health services. Combined with Walgreens wholly-owned subsidiary and convenient care clinic manager, Take Care Health Systems, they will form the platform for the new Walgreens Health and Wellness division. Chadds Ford, Penn.-based I-trax/CHD Meridian and Cleveland-based Whole Health will combine to operate under the name, Take Care Employer Healthcare Solutions.
"Our official entry into the health care services and wellness space marks a very exciting day for our shareholders, customers and employees," said Walgreens Chairman and CEO Jeffrey A. Rein. "We believe our leadership position in pharmacy, trusted health care brand and goal of 10,000 points of care by 2010 will give us opportunities to meaningfully address the access issues that currently challenge the U.S. health care system."
Corporate clients served by I-trax/CHD Meridian and Whole Health include BMW, Eastman Chemical, Glatfelter, Lowe's, Toyota, Continental Airlines, Florida Power and Light, Harrah's Entertainment, Scotts Miracle-Gro and Sprint.
"Walgreens Health and Wellness division is positioned to deliver an unparalleled offering to the marketplace," said Hal Rosenbluth, president of Walgreens Health and Wellness and chairman of Take Care Health Systems. "We will combine the strength of Take Care Employer Healthcare Solutions with our existing Take Care Health Clinics, located at Walgreens drugstores, to improve patient health outcomes, lower costs and increase Walgreens relationships with employers and health plans."
On March 17, Walgreens announced its intent to acquire I-trax, Inc. in a cash transaction valued at approximately $278 million, including the assumption of debt. On April 25, Walgreens announced the successful completion of the tender offer for I-trax. On April 30, Walgreens completed its acquisition of I-trax through
 
a merger in which all shares of I-trax common and preferred stock not validly tendered and purchased in the tender offer were converted into the right to receive cash consideration equal to the applicable tender offer purchase price per share. As a result of the merger, I-trax became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Walgreens and the shares of I-trax were withdrawn from trading on the American Stock Exchange.
Walgreens also announced on March 17 its agreement to acquire Whole Health Management; terms of the deal weren't disclosed.
For employers seeking more information on Take Care Employer Healthcare Solutions, email: .
employerhealthcaresolutions@takecarehealth.com
About Walgreens
Walgreens is the nation's largest drugstore chain with fiscal 2007 sales of $53.8 billion. The company operates 6,271 stores in 49 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Walgreens is expanding its patient-first health care services beyond traditional pharmacy through Walgreens Health Services, its managed care division, and Take Care Health Systems, a wholly owned subsidiary that manages 163 convenient care clinics at Walgreens drugstores. Walgreens Health Services assists pharmacy patients and prescription drug and medical plans through Walgreens Health Initiatives Inc. (a pharmacy benefit manager), Walgreens Mail Service Inc., Walgreens Home Care Inc., Walgreens Specialty Pharmacy LLC and SeniorMed LLC (a pharmacy provider to long-term care facilities). More information about Walgreens is available at .
Walgreens.com
About Take Care Health Systems
SM
Take Care Health Systems (), one of the largest managers of convenient care clinics, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Walgreens. The Company combines best practices in health care and the expertise and personal care of providers to deliver access to high-quality, affordable, convenient health care to all individuals. Take Care Health Clinics are located at select Walgreens drugstores nationwide, where nurse practitioners and physician assistants focus exclusively on the diagnosis and treatment of common family illnesses, vaccinations, physicals and screenings. Take Care Health Systems currently manages 163 Take Care Health Clinics in 17 cities throughout 14 states, with plans to have more than 400 clinics in operation by the end of 2008. The Company maintains a detailed quality assurance program including collaborating physician review to promote quality care, patient safety and state scope of practice compliance. Patient care is provided by Take Care Health Services, an independently owned state professional corporation established in each market.
www.takecarehealth.com
About I-trax
I-trax is a leading provider of integrated workplace health and productivity management solutions. Serving more than 160 clients at nearly 300 locations in
 
the United States, I-trax offers on-site health, fitness and wellness centers through its CHD Meridian Healthcare, LLC and ProFitness Health Solutions, LLC subsidiaries that deliver primary care, acute care corporate health, occupational health and pharmacy care management services, as well as fitness and wellness programming and integrated disease management programs. CHD Meridian is focused on making the workplace safe, helping companies achieve employer of choice status, and reducing costs while improving the quality of care received and the productivity of the workforce. Managing employer-sponsored health centers for over 40 years, some of CHD Meridian Healthcare's clients include: BMW, Coushatta Casino Resort, Deutsche Bank, Eastman Chemical, Fieldale Farms, Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey, Lowe's, Toyota and Unum. For more information, visit .
www.chdmeridian.com
About Whole Health Management
Whole Health Management is a leading operator of on-site and near-site employer sponsored clinics, health and wellness centers, and pharmacies in the United States. Since 1981, Whole Health has provided comprehensive and integrated occupational health, preventive care, urgent and primary care, physical therapy, fitness programs, health risk and disease management, health coaching and behavioral health counseling to corporate employees and their families. Whole Health clinics deliver significant savings to corporations through lower health care costs, increased productivity, reduced employee sick time, and decreased pharmacy costs. Whole Health currently serves more than 300,000 employees, and in many cases, spouses and dependents, at 69 sites, including many large corporations and Fortune 500 companies. For more information about Whole Health, visit .
www.wholehealthnet.com
Cautionary Statements
This news release may contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties (as such "forward-looking" statements are defined under the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act). The following factors, among others, could cause results to differ materially from management expectations as projected in such forward-looking statements: the inability to satisfy conditions to the completion of the transaction; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; social and political conditions such as war, political unrest and terrorism or natural disasters; and general economic conditions and normal business uncertainty and competition and its effect on pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release, and no undertaking has been made to update or revise them if there are changes in expectations or if any events, conditions or circumstances on which any such forward-looking statement is based. Investors are referred and encouraged to read the "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in Walgreens most recent Form 10-K, as amended, as well as the "Forward-Looking Statements" section of I-trax's Form 10-K, each of which is incorporated into this news release by reference.


