FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20080304154432.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
On February 27, 2008, Walgreen Co. entered into a Separation and Release Agreement with Trent E. Taylor.  Prior to January 7, 2008, Mr. Taylor was executive vice president of Walgreen Co. and president of Walgreen Health Initiatives, Inc.
 
Under the Agreement, Walgreen Co. will pay Mr. Taylor his regular salary until June 30, 2009 and continue to provide him with most employee benefits through such date.  Mr. Taylor will also be eligible to receive an annual bonus for the fiscal year ending August 31, 2008 and his stock options and Restricted Performance Share Program options will continue to vest through June 30, 2009. 
 
As part of the Agreement, Mr. Taylor executed a full waiver and release of all claims related to his employment.  Mr. Taylor also agreed to restrictions on his ability to provide services to certain competitors or solicit customers, clients or patients on behalf of such competitors.
 
The full text of the Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is 
incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
          
Exhibit Number
Description
 
Exhibit 99.1                 Separation and Release Agreement entered into between Walgreen Co. and Trent E. Taylor,
                                     dated February 27, 2008.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
This Agreement is made between Trent E. Taylor, Employee ("Employee") and Walgreen Co., on behalf of itself, its affiliates, subsidiaries, and successors (collectively referred to as "Walgreens" or the Company) describing the application of certain compensation, benefits and other terms and conditions in connection with Employee's separation from Walgreens.  The purpose of this Agreement is to memorialize the terms of Employee's separation from Walgreens and to resolve all matters relating to Employee's employment with and separation from Walgreens without proceedings and litigation of any kind, on the terms and conditions that follow.
With the intention of being legally bound, Walgreens and Employee promise and agree that:
 
Confidential Information means information not generally known by the public about processes, systems, products, services, including proposed products and services, business information, know-how, or trade secrets of the Company.  Confidential Information includes, but is not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any contrary provision, Employee shall not be deemed in breach of any obligation under this section for using or disclosing any information that came into his possession prior to or independent of his employment relationship with the Company, that consists of general knowledge regarding the industry, or that has become generally known to the public through no fault of Employee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Entered and Agreed to:
 
                                            
/s/ Trent E. Taylor                               
/s/ Kenneth R. Weigand          
Trent E. Taylor                                                                                algreen Co.
W
By:      Kenneth R. Weigand, SVP
    
    
    
    
    
   
                                                                                                  
February 27, 2008
                              
M
arch 3, 2008
                          
Date                                                                                                  Date


