FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20081017172110.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
 
 
On October 10, 2008, Jeffrey A. Rein retired as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and a director of Walgreen Co. (the Company).
On the same date, the Board of Directors of the Company named Alan G. McNally Chairman and Acting Chief Executive Officer. Mr. McNally, 62, has served as lead director of the Companys Board of Directors since January 2008 and has served as a director since 1999. Mr. McNally also serves as Special Advisor to Harris Financial Corporation (formerly Bankmont Financial Corporation), a position he has held since January 2007. Mr. McNally was Chairman of the Board of Harris Financial Corporation from April 1998 to May 2006, and a director from May 2006 to December 2006. Mr. McNally was Senior Advisor to TeleTech North America from February 2003 to September 2006. Mr. McNally was Chairman of the Board of Harris Trust and Savings Bank and Harris Bankcorp, Inc. from April 1995 until January 2004. Mr. McNally was Chief Executive Officer of Harris Trust and Savings Bank and Harris Bankcorp, Inc. from September 1993 to September 2002 and Bankmont Financial Corporation from April 1998 to September 2002, and Vice Chair of Bank of Montreal from 1990 to September 2002.
During the period Mr. McNally serves as Acting Chief Executive Officer and in lieu of his compensation as a non-employee director and as lead director, he will receive a salary at an annual rate of $1,200,000 and will be eligible for an annual bonus under the Walgreen Co. Management Incentive Plan. The Chief Executive Officer bonus target approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors for fiscal year 2009 is equal to 125% of salary and will be prorated for the period Mr. McNally serves as Acting Chief Executive Officer. Mr. McNally was also granted 120,000 stock options and 26,600 restricted stock units (RSUs) on October 10, 2008. Fifty percent of the stock options and RSUs granted will vest on the earlier of April 10, 2009 or the date when a successor chief executive officer assumes that position. An additional 1/12 of each grant will vest at the end of each full month of continued employment as Acting Chief Executive Officer after April 10, 2009. If Mr. McNallys employment as Acting Chief Executive Officer terminates prior to the full vesting of these grants, the Compensation Committee may accelerate the vesting of some or all of the remaining unvested stock options and RSUs, at its discretion. The stock options will be exercisable until five years after the later of the end of Mr. McNallys employment or his retirement from the Board of Directors, provided that they will not be exercisable after the tenth anniversary of the grant date. Mr. McNally will not be eligible for any other long-term incentives.
In consideration of Mr. McNallys agreeing to serve immediately as Acting Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors has agreed to reimburse Mr. McNally for certain expenses that he had previously incurred for travel that he will be unable to complete as a result of his service and certain other incidental costs that he might incur as a result of his service as Acting Chief Executive Officer. Mr. McNally will also be eligible to participate in certain of the Companys employee benefit and fringe benefit plans and programs generally applicable to senior executives.
The Board of Directors has formed a special committee, comprised of William C. Foote, chair of the Boards Nominating and Governance Committee, James A. Skinner, chair of the Compensation Committee, and Mr. McNally, to lead a nationwide search for a permanent Chief Executive Officer. The special committee will be considering both internal and external candidates.
Mr. Rein and the Company have entered into a Retirement and Non-Competition Agreement to confirm the terms of Mr. Reins retirement from the Company. The full text of the Agreement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference. The material terms of the Agreement are as follows:
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  
WALGREEN CO.
Date: October 17, 2008
By: Name: Dana I. Green Title: Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
/s/ Dana I. Green                                         
 

Exhibit 99.1
This Agreement is made between Jeffrey A. Rein ("Rein") and Walgreen Co., an Illinois Corporation ("Walgreens" or the "Company"), describing the application of certain compensation, benefits and other terms and conditions in connection with Rein's retirement from Walgreens. This Agreement is effective as of October 10, 2008, and it supersedes any and all prior agreements, proposals and understandings between Rein and Walgreens, including but not limited to Rein's change in control Employment Agreement dated April 11, 1996.
With the intention of being legally bound, Walgreens and Rein promise and agree that:
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Rein shall not earn any additional vacation or be eligible for any new long-term incentive grants following his Last Day Worked. Any reimbursement of expenses due by the Company to Rein shall take place in the calendar year such expenses were incurred.
 
 
Entered and Agreed to:
 
EXHIBIT A
This NON-COMPETITION, NON-SOLICITATION AND CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT (this "Exhibit A") forms a part of the Retirement and Non-Competition Agreement between Jeffrey A. Rein ("Rein") and Walgreen Co. (the "Retirement Agreement"), and is effective as of October 10, 2008.
WHEREAS, Walgreen Co. and its subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively, the "Company") develop and/or use valuable business, technical, proprietary, customer and patient information, and the Company protects this information by limiting its disclosure and by keeping it secret or confidential;
WHEREAS, Rein acknowledges that during the course of employment with the Company, he has received, contributed to, and developed such confidential information; and
WHEREAS, the Company desires to protect from its competitors such confidential information and to protect its legitimate business interests via the restrictive covenants contained in this Exhibit A.
NOW THEREFORE, as a replacement for the restrictive covenants signed by Rein previously, and in consideration of the compensation and benefits provided to Rein pursuant to the Retirement Agreement, Rein agrees to the following:
For purposes of this Exhibit A, the following definitions shall apply:
1. 
Definitions
.
(a) "Competing Business" means any business engaged in by any Person that is in competition with any business engaged in by the Company as of Rein's Last Day Worked or at any time during the term of Rein's service as President/Chief Operating Officer or Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
(b) "Customer" means any patient or other customer or prospective customer of any Company business unit during Rein's employment with the Company.
(c) "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other entity.
Any other capitalized terms not defined herein shall be as defined in the Retirement Agreement.
Rein agrees not to disclose any Confidential Information, as defined below, to any person or entity other than the Company, either during or after Rein's employment, without the Company's prior written consent. Rein further agrees not to use any Confidential Information, either during or at any time after his employment, without the Company's prior written consent.
2. 
Non-Disclosure And Non-Use
.
 
Confidential Information means information not generally known by the public about processes, systems, products, services, including proposed products and services, business information, know-how, or trade secrets of the Company. Confidential Information includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(a) Customer records, identity of vendors, suppliers, or landlords, profit and performance reports, prices, selling and pricing procedures and techniques, and financing methods of the Company;
(b) Customer lists and information pertaining to identities of the customers, their special demands, and their past, current and anticipated requirements for the products or services of the Company;
(c) Specifications, procedures, policies, techniques, manuals, databases and all other information pertaining to products or services of the Company, or of others for which the Company has assumed an obligation of confidentiality;
(d) Business or marketing plans, accounting records, financial statements and information, and projections of the Company;
(e) Software developed or used by the Company;
(f) Information related to the Company's retailing, distribution or administrative facilities; and
(g) Any other information identified or defined as confidential information by Company policy.
In order to protect the legitimate business interests and goodwill of the Company, and to protect Confidential Information, Rein covenants and agrees that during the Paid-Through Period defined in the Retirement Agreement, Rein will not compete with the Company. This restriction includes without limitation a prohibition on engaging or investing in, owning, managing, operating, financing, controlling, participating in the ownership, management, operation, financing or control of, or being associated or in any manner connected with, any Competing Business, whether as a consultant, independent contractor, agent, employee, officer, partner, director, shareholder (except (i) limited partnership investments in private equity funds which may invest in venture capital-backed companies (where Rein's investment represents less than 1% percent ownership interest of any such company) or (ii) investments of less than 1% ownership interest of the outstanding securities of a corporation or other entity whose securities are listed on a stock exchange or quotation system and such entity files periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission), distributor, representative, or otherwise, alone or in association with any other Person(s). Notwithstanding the foregoing, Rein may render services for a Competing Business if: such service does not conflict with any other restrictions noted in this Exhibit A, the Competing Business is diversified, and Rein becomes employed in a part of the business that is not in competition with the Company; and the Company receives advance written assurances satisfactory to the Company, from both the Competing Business and Rein, that Rein will not render any material services in connection with any product, system, service, or process of any Person or organization which competes with a product, system, service, or process of the Company. In addition, the following shall not constitute prohibited competition under this Exhibit A: working for a manufacturing enterprise with on-site pharmacies; working for department stores that have no pharmacy operation; working in connection with clothing and beauty products business activities; and working for vendor partners of the Company.
3. 
Non-Competition During the Paid-Through Period
.
 
Rein further covenants and agrees that during the Paid-Through Period and for one year thereafter Rein will not:
4. 
Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Through the One-Year Anniversary of the Paid-Through Period
.
(a) contact any Customer of the Company for the benefit of a Competing Business or interfere with, or attempt to disrupt the relationship, contractual, or otherwise, between the Company and any of its Customers.
(b) hire any employee of the Company. This restriction includes, without limitation, a prohibition on directly or indirectly employing, or knowingly permitting any Person or business directly or indirectly controlled by Rein, regardless of whether such Person or business is a Competing Business, from employing, any person who is employed by the Company. The term "employee" means an individual employed by the Company as of the date of, or within six months before or after Rein's Last Day Worked.
(c) solicit any employee of the Company. This restriction includes without limitation a prohibition on directly or indirectly (i) interfering with, or attempting to disrupt the relationship, contractual, or otherwise, between the Company and any of its employees, and (ii) soliciting, inducing, or attempting to induce employees of the Company to terminate employment with the Company.
(d) compete with the Company. During the Paid-Through Period, the restrictions of Paragraph 3 above shall apply. For the six-month period following the Paid-Through Date, restricted competition shall be more narrowly limited to performing services in the retail pharmacy or pharmacy benefit management business in direct competition with the Company.
The determination of whether any activity in question constitutes competition with the Company in violation of this Paragraph 4(d) or Paragraph 3 above shall be made, in good faith, by the Board of Directors of the Company or its designee, and the Board will consider any reasonable advance written request by Rein to have the Company waive these restrictions as applied to one or more specified activities that might otherwise be considered to be in violation of this Exhibit A.
Rein agrees that the restrictions contained in Paragraphs 4(a), 4(b), and 4(c) have no geographic limitation. Rein agrees that the restrictions contained in Paragraphs 3 and 4(d) are geographically limited to the entirety of the United States and Puerto Rico. Rein acknowledges that (i) the Company's business is and following the date hereof will be national in scope, (ii) the Company's products and services are and following the date hereof will be marketed throughout the United States and (iii) the Company has competed and following the date hereof will compete with other businesses that are or could be located in any part of the United States. Rein further covenants and agrees that restrictive covenants contained in this Exhibit A are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate business interests of the Company because of the nature and scope of the Company's business.
5. 
Scope of Covenants
.
 
If a court or arbitrator of competent jurisdiction determines that one or more of the provisions of Paragraphs 2-4 are invalid, illegal, or unenforceable for any reason, then such provision or provisions shall be deemed to be reduced in scope or length, as the case may be, to the extent required to make these Paragraphs enforceable. If Rein violates the provisions of Paragraph 2 or 3, the periods described therein shall be extended by that number of days which equals the aggregate of all days during which at any time any such violations occurred.
Rein agrees that he will not directly or indirectly assist or encourage any Person or entity in carrying out any activity that would be prohibited by the provisions of this Exhibit A if such activity were carried out by Rein.
6. 
Non-Inducement
.
Rein acknowledges and agrees that the covenants described in this Exhibit A are essential terms. Rein further acknowledges that these covenants are supported by adequate consideration, that full compliance with these covenants will not prevent Rein from earning a livelihood, and that these covenants do not place undue restraint on Rein and are not in conflict with any public interest. Rein further acknowledges and agrees that Rein fully understands these covenants, has had full and complete opportunity to discuss and resolve any ambiguities or uncertainties regarding these covenants before signing the Retirement Agreement, that these covenants are reasonable and enforceable in every respect, and has voluntarily agreed to comply with these covenants for their stated term. Rein agrees that in the event he is offered employment with a Competing Business at any time in the future, Rein shall immediately notify the Competing Business of the existence of the covenants set forth in Paragraphs 2 through 4 above to the extent they remain applicable.
8. 
Consideration and Acknowledgments
.
The terms of Section 11 of the Retirement Agreement shall govern in the event that Rein breaches any material provision of this Exhibit A. In addition, any material breach of Paragraph 3 or 4 above shall constitute a breach of the non-competition provisions contained in Rein's stock option agreements and Deferred Compensation/Capital Accumulation Plans, thus triggering the resulting forfeiture of unexercised stock options and reduction in deferred compensation benefits.
9. 
Remedies upon Breach
.
Rein further agrees that the Company may notify anyone later employing him or her of the existence and provisions of this Exhibit A.
10. 
Notification
.
This Exhibit A shall be enforceable by the Company and its successors and permitted assigns.
11. 
Successors and Assigns
.
Rein agrees that (a) waiver of any of the provisions of this Exhibit A by the Company in any particular instance shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any provision in any other instance and/or of the Company's other rights at law or under this Exhibit A, and (b) the provisions of this Exhibit A shall be considered severable.
12. 
Waiver and Severability
.


