FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20080605131342.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
This amendment is being filed solely to: (i) amend the Date of Report on the front cover from May 1, 2008 to April 30, 2008, (ii) delete the Item 2.01 caption, which was not applicable to the event, and (iii) move the description of the closing of the transaction under the Item 8.01 caption.
     On April 30, 2008, Putter Acquisition Sub, Inc. (""), a wholly owned subsidiary of Walgreen Co. (""), merged with and into I-trax, Inc. (the ""). The Merger completed the acquisition of I-trax by Walgreens, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 14, 2008 (the ""), among Walgreens, Acquisition Sub and I-trax. In the Merger, each outstanding share of I-trax common stock, par value $.001 per share (the ""), and I-trax Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $.001 per share (the "" and collectively with the Common Stock, the "") (other than Shares owned by Walgreens or any of its affiliates, or Shares held by an I-trax stockholder who perfects his, her or its appraisal rights in connection with the Merger) was converted into the right to receive $5.40 for each share of Common Stock and $54.00 plus the Dividend Amount (as defined below) for each share of Preferred Stock. The "Dividend Amount" payable with respect to the shares of Preferred Stock in the Merger was calculated by dividing the value of accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares at the time of effectiveness of the Merger by $3.84 (which equals the average market price of shares of Common Stock during the ten trading days prior to, and including, March 14, 2008, calculated in accordance with the terms of the Preferred Stock) and multiplying the result by $5.40.
Acquisition Sub
Walgreens
Merger
Merger Agreement
Common Stock
Preferred Stock
Shares
     As a result of the Merger, Walgreens has acquired the business and assets of I-trax.
     On May 1, 2008, Walgreens issued a press release announcing the completion of the merger of Acquisition Sub with and into I-trax. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


