FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20081222080524.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On December 22, 2008, Walgreen Co. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended November 30, 2008.  A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
This information, including exhibits attached hereto and the information under Item 7.01 below, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  This information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to this Form 8-K in such a filing.
Item 7.01                      Regulation FD Disclosure.
In addition to issuing a press release, Walgreen Co. is also conducting a conference call and webcast regarding results for the quarter ended November 30, 2008.  Slides prepared for the purposes of the conference call are available on the Walgreens investor relations Web site at http://investor.walgreens.com.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
2
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
3

 
 
Media Contact:  Tiffani Bruce, 847-914-2962
Investor Contact:  Rick Hans, CFA, 847-914-2385                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                  
 
 
DEERFIELD, Ill., Dec. 22, 2008  Walgreens (NYSE, NASDAQ: WAG) today announced earnings and sales results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2009.
 
Net earnings for the quarter ended Nov. 30 decreased 10.4 percent to $408 million or 41 cents per share (diluted), from $456 million or 46 cents per share (diluted) in the same quarter a year ago.
 
Sales for the first quarter increased 6.6 percent to a record $14.9 billion, while sales in comparable stores (those open more than a year) rose 1.7 percent in the quarter.
 
Prescription sales, which accounted for 66 percent of sales in the quarter, climbed 6.2 percent, while prescription sales in comparable stores rose 2.6 percent in the quarter. The companys number of U.S. retail prescriptions filled increased 3.7 percent over last years first quarter. That compares to an industry-wide decline of 0.5 percent (excluding Walgreens) during the same period, according to IMS Health and Walgreens figures. The number of prescriptions filled in comparable stores was virtually flat, although prescriptions were up 1.5 percent when adjusted for more patients filling 90-day prescriptions versus 30-day. Front-end comparable sales were flat in the quarter.
 
We continue to post solid sales results and achieve strong cost control in this difficult retail environment, said Walgreens President and COO Gregory D. Wasson. Customer traffic strengthened through the quarter and were making substantial progress on our growth strategies to get more from our core operations and enhance the customer experience.
 
 
- 2 -
 
Today, the company is also announcing plans to further reduce its organic store openings to a rate between 4.0 and 4.5 percent in 2010 and between 2.5 and 3.0 percent in 2011. This is a further reduction from plans announced last July to slow organic store openings to 5 percent by 2011. The company will continue to open new stores in strategic markets, on the best corners, and which offer the greatest rates of return. The new target growth rate will reduce capital expenditures through 2011 by approximately an additional $500 million beyond the $500 million capital expenditure savings announced last July.
 
Wasson said, We believe that further slowing of organic store growth is a prudent step in the context of current economic conditions. Furthermore, by freeing up human and financial capital, substantial upside exists to drive greater value creation by enhancing the best community-based store network in America. This includes refreshing and remodeling existing stores, more efficient assortment within stores, prescription file buys and continued expansion of retail and worksite clinics.
 
Selling, general and administrative expense dollars increased 9.1 percent in the quarter compared to the same quarter last year, which includes costs associated with opening a record 212 new or acquired drugstores in the quarter.
 
Gross profit margins decreased 0.2 percentage points versus the year-ago quarter to 27.8 as a percent of sales. Retail pharmacy margins increased due to generic drug sales, which have higher margins. Front-end margins remained essentially flat from the prior year. The gross profit was negatively impacted by non-retail businesses and an increase in the LIFO provision to $43 million in this years quarter versus a provision of $27 million in last years first quarter.
 
Walgreens continues to progress on key initiatives reviewed at its Analyst Day in October:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wasson concluded, Our growth strategies and financial flexibility position us well to create shareholder value in the years ahead.
 
Walgreens will hold a one-hour conference call to discuss the quarters results beginning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time today, Dec. 22. The conference call will be webcast through Walgreens investor relations Web site at: http://investor.walgreens.com. This webcast will be archived on the site for 12 months after the call.
 
A replay of the conference call also will be available from 11:30 a.m. Eastern time, Dec. 22, through Dec. 29. The replay can be accessed at http://investor.walgreens.com or by calling 888-203-1112 within the U.S. and Canada, or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S. and Canada, using replay code 9244629.
 
This news release may contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.  The following factors could cause results to differ materially from management expectations as projected in such forward-looking statements: seasonal variations, competition, risks of new business areas, the availability and cost of real estate and construction, and changes in federal or state legislation or regulations.  Investors are referred to the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in the Companys most recent Form 10-K, which Note is incorporated into this news release by reference.
 
(more)
 
 


