FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20090323080144.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On March 23, 2009, Walgreen Co. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended February 28, 2009.  A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
This information, including exhibits attached hereto and the information under Item 7.01 below, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  This information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to this Form 8-K in such a filing.
Item 7.01                      Regulation FD Disclosure.
In addition to issuing a press release, Walgreen Co. is also conducting a conference call and webcast regarding results for the quarter ended February 28, 2009.  Slides prepared for the purposes of the conference call are available on the Walgreens investor relations Web site at http://investor.walgreens.com.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Form 8-K:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
2

 
Walgreen Co. Corporate Communications   200 Wilmot Road Deerfield, Ill. 60015(847) 914-2500
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEERFIELD, Ill., March 23, 2009  Walgreens (NYSE, NASDAQ: WAG) today announced earnings and sales results for the second quarter of fiscal year 2009.
 
Net earnings for the quarter ended Feb. 28 decreased 6.7 percent to $640 million or 65 cents per share (diluted), from $686 million or 69 cents per share (diluted) in the same quarter a year ago. Second quarter 2009 results include a negative impact of 6 cents per share (diluted) in costs and 2 cents in savings associated with the companys Rewiring for Growth restructuring program. Last years quarterly results benefited from one extra day because of leap year.
 
First half net earnings decreased 8.2 percent to $1.05 billion or $1.06 per share (diluted) versus last years $1.14 billion or $1.15 per share (diluted). First half 2009 results include a negative impact of 7 cents per share (diluted) in costs and 3 cents in savings associated with Rewiring for Growth.
 
We made solid progress in the quarter executing our long-term growth strategies in a challenging retail environment, said Walgreens President and CEO Gregory D. Wasson. With our new management team in place, were implementing significant cost reductions, engaging our customers more effectively and broadening access to affordable health care.
 
Second quarter sales increased 7.0 percent from the prior-year quarter to a record $16.5 billion, and grew 6.8 percent to $31.4 billion for the first half. Sales in comparable stores (those open at least a year) increased 1.3 percent in the quarter, while comparable store front-end sales decreased 1.2 percent. Calendar shifts and last years leap day negatively impacted total sales in
comparable stores by 0.8 percentage points and front-end comparable drugstore sales by 1.0 percentage points.
 
 
-2-
 
Prescription sales, which accounted for 63 percent of sales in the quarter, climbed 7.8 percent, while prescription sales in comparable stores increased 2.9 percent in the quarter. The companys number of retail prescriptions filled increased 4.0 percent over last years second quarter. That compares to an industry-wide decline of 1.0 percent (excluding Walgreens) during the same period, according to IMS Health and Walgreens figures. Calendar shifts and last years leap day negatively impacted the number of prescriptions filled in comparable stores by 0.7 percentage points. Total prescriptions filled at comparable stores in the quarter were also negatively impacted by 1.6 percentage points due to more patients filling 90-day prescriptions versus 30-day.
 
Selling, general and administrative expense dollars in the second quarter increased 8.1 percent over the year-ago period, which includes 2.4 percentage points for Rewiring for Growth costs. Higher expenses were partially offset by tight controls on store salary costs.
 
Gross profit margins decreased 0.6 percentage points from the prior-year quarter to 28.3 as a percent of sales. Negatively impacting margins were lower front-end margins due to promotional pricing and product mix, non-retail businesses, and a higher LIFO provision of $49 million in this years quarter versus a provision of $31 million in last years second quarter. Helping overall margins were an increase in pharmacy margins as a result of the impact of generic drug sales.
 
Highlights of the second quarter:
 
 
We believe the underlying strength of the best community-based retail network and the Walgreens brand, along with our lower cost structure and financial flexibility will enable us to emerge from the current challenging environment well positioned for the future, said Wasson. Were committed to returning the company to strong double-digit earnings growth and top tier shareholder return.
 
Walgreens will hold a one-hour conference call to discuss the quarters results beginning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time today, March 23. The conference call will be webcast through Walgreens investor relations Web site at: http://investor.walgreens.com. This webcast will be archived on the site for 12 months after the call.
 
A replay of the conference call also will be available from 11:30 a.m. Eastern time, March 23, through March 30. The replay can be accessed at http://investor.walgreens.com or by calling 888-203-1112 within the U.S. and Canada, or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S. and Canada, using replay code 8668846.
 
This news release may contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.  The following factors could cause results to differ materially from management expectations as projected in such forward-looking statements: seasonal variations, competition, risks of new business areas, the availability and cost of real estate and construction, and changes in federal or state legislation or regulations.  Investors are referred to the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in the Companys most recent Form 10-K, which Note is incorporated into this news release by reference.
 
 
 


