FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20090714135958.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At its meeting on July 8, 2009, the Board of Directors of Walgreen Co. (the Company) promoted Wade D. Miquelon, 44, to the position of executive vice president and chief financial officer effective July 8, 2009.  Mr. Miquelon joined the Company as senior vice president and chief financial officer in June 2008.
From June 2006 and until he joined the Company, Mr. Miquelon served as an executive vice president and CFO of Tyson Foods, Inc., the worlds largest processor and marketer of chicken, beef and pork.  Prior to that, Mr. Miquelon spent 16 years with The Procter & Gamble Company, the worlds largest consumer goods product company, most recently as general manager and head of finance of Western Europe operations.
In connection with Mr. Miquelons promotion to executive vice president, he received an increase in base salary to an annual rate of $700,000, and his bonus target under the Walgreen Co. Management Incentive Plan for the remainder of fiscal year 2009 was increased to 75% of base salary.
Mr. Miquelon also received, effective July 8, 2009, grants of stock options and restricted stock units under the Companys long-term incentive programs to reflect, for the portion of the current fiscal year remaining, the higher executive vice president grant levels approved for fiscal year 2009 by the Companys Compensation Committee.  These grants consist of an award of options to acquire 1,124 shares of the Companys common stock, and restricted stock units representing 271 shares of common stock.  The exercise price of the options is $29.76 per share.  The options and the restricted stock units will vest on July 8, 2012.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


