FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20090318113719.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
   
The Board of Directors of Walgreen Co. (the ) elected Steven A. Davis to the Board effective March 16, 2009 to hold office until the Company's 2010 annual meeting of shareholders.
"Company"
Mr. Davis, age 50, is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Bob Evans Farms, Inc. He has served as Chief Executive Officer since May 2006 and as Chairman since September 2006. Before joining Bob Evans, Mr. Davis served as President of Long John Silver's and A&W All-American Food Restaurants (Yum! Brands) from 2002 to 2006 and as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Pizza Hut, Inc. (Yum! Brands) from 1993 to 2002.
Mr. Davis is a director and a member of the audit committee of Embarq Corporation, a New York Stock Exchange listed company.
On March 16, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing Mr. Davis's election. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Form 8-K:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  
 

Exhibit 99.1
DEERFIELD, Ill., March 16, 2009  Walgreen Co. today announced Steven A. Davis, chairman and chief executive officer of Bob Evans Farms Inc., has been elected to its board of directors effective immediately. Davis, who joins the board as an independent director, becomes the board's 12 member.
th
"We welcome Steven's valuable experience developing strategies for some of the most successful, longstanding American brands," said Walgreens chairman Alan G. McNally. "His career-long focus on gaining consumer insights and delivering high-quality at affordable prices makes him a natural fit."
Before joining Bob Evans in 2006, Davis worked at Yum! Brands Inc., where he had been president of Long John Silver's and A&W All-American Food Restaurants since 2002. Previously, Davis served in a variety of operations management and other executive positions in Yum! Brands' Pizza Hut division, including senior vice president of concept development where his team introduced the Wing Street concept.
Prior to joining Pizza Hut in 1993, Davis was with Kraft General Foods for nine years. Earlier in his career, he held a series of brand management positions in Kraft's cheese business where he launched successful new products and marketing campaigns.
Davis serves on numerous community, professional and corporate boards including the Arthur G. James Cancer Hospital, the Richard J. Solove Research Institute Foundation and the Columbus Partnership and Compete Columbus, organizations focused on economic development strategy for the region. He is also a board member of the National Restaurant Association and the EMBARQ Corp.
 
Davis holds a Master of Business Administration in marketing and finance from the University of Chicago and a Bachelor of Science in business administration from the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee.
Walgreens is the nation's largest drugstore chain with fiscal 2008 sales of $59 billion. The company operates 6,679 drugstores in 49 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Walgreens provides the most convenient access to consumer goods and services and cost-effective pharmacy, health and wellness services in America through its retail drugstores, Walgreens Health Services division and Walgreens Health and Wellness division. Walgreens Health Services assists pharmacy patients and prescription drug and medical plans through Walgreens Health Initiatives Inc. (a pharmacy benefit manager), Walgreens Mail Service Inc., Walgreens Home Care Inc., Walgreens Specialty Pharmacy LLC and SeniorMed LLC (a pharmacy provider to long-term care facilities). Walgreens Health and Wellness division includes Take Care Health Systems, the largest and most comprehensive manager of worksite health and wellness centers and in-store convenient care clinics, with more than 700 locations throughout the country.
About Walgreens


