FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20100622170252.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTE
 
This Form 8-K/A is being filed to amend the Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on June 22, 2010.  The amendment is solely for the purpose
of correcting a typographical error in the Consolidated Condensed Balance
Sheets included in Exhibit 99.1 to the original Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Item 2.02           Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On June 22, 2010, Walgreen Co. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended May 31, 2010.  A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
This information, including exhibits attached hereto and the information under Item 7.01 below, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  This information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to this Form 8-K in such a filing.
Item 7.01           Regulation FD Disclosure.
In addition to issuing a press release, Walgreen Co. is also conducting a conference call and webcast regarding results for the quarter ended May 31, 2010.  Slides prepared for the purposes of the conference call are available on the Walgreens investor relations Web site at http://investor.walgreens.com.
Item 9.01           Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Form 8-K:
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
3

 
 
 
Walgreen Co. Corporate Communications   200 Wilmot Road    Deerfield, Ill. 60015(847) 914-2500
l
    
l
   
l 
 
DEERFIELD, Ill., June 22, 2010  Walgreens (NYSE, NASDAQ: WAG) today announced earnings and sales results for the third quarter of fiscal year 2010.
 
Net earnings for the quarter ended May 31, 2010, were $463 million or 47 cents per diluted share. Third quarter 2010 results include the negative impact of 4 cents per diluted share from the elimination of the tax benefit for the Medicare Part D subsidy for retiree benefits that was the result of the enactment of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, 2 cents per diluted share from costs associated with the Duane Reade acquisition and 1 cent per diluted share in restructuring and restructuring-related costs associated with the companys Rewiring for Growth initiative.  Net earnings for the year-ago quarter ended May 31, 2009, were $522 million or 53 cents per diluted share (which included 6 cents per diluted share in restructuring costs).
 
Cash flow from operations for this years third quarter reached $1.0 billion, for a total of $2.8 billion year to date.
 
 
 
 
 
 We anticipated this would be a challenging quarter for several reasons, including the sluggish economy, prescription reimbursement pressure compounded by a slowdown in the rate of introduction of new generics, and a lower incidence of flu compared with the beginning of the H1N1 pandemic a year ago, said Walgreens President and CEO Greg Wasson.  While we saw a number of positive signs in the quarter and reached several important milestones, we also realize there is more to be done.
 
During the quarter, we achieved record sales, a record number of prescriptions filled, continued growth in our retail pharmacy market share, and continued generation of strong cash flow. We also are seeing an improvement in our Customer Centric Retailing (CCR) stores and an expansion of opportunities for our new Pharmacy, Health and Wellness Solutions. At the same time, we are directly addressing the reimbursement pressures we are seeing and following through on the cost control initiatives associated with Rewiring for Growth. Looking ahead, we remain cautious on the economy and confident in our strategies.
 
Net earnings for the first nine months of fiscal 2010 were $1.6 billion or $1.64 per diluted share, including impacts of 6 cents in costs associated with Rewiring for Growth, 4 cents for the Medicare Part D tax subsidy repeal, and 2 cents in Duane Reade acquisition costs. Net earnings per diluted share for the year to date reflect a 3.8 percent increase from last years $1.58 per diluted share (which included 13 cents per diluted share in restructuring costs).
Third Quarter Financial Highlights
 
Third quarter sales increased 6.1 percent from the prior-year quarter to a record $17.2 billion, and increased 6.1 percent to $50.6 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2010. Total sales in comparable stores (those open at least a year) increased 0.7 percent in the quarter, while comparable store front-end sales increased 0.1 percent. (Please note that Duane Reade stores are not included in any comparable store sales results.) Front-end sales were impacted by continued weak demand for discretionary goods and by lower demand for flu-related products compared with the year-ago quarter.
 
Prescription sales, which accounted for 65.4 percent of sales in the quarter, climbed 5.7 percent, while prescription sales in comparable stores increased 1.0 percent. The companys number of comparable prescriptions filled increased 2.5 percent over last years third quarter, including 1.3 percentage points due to more patients filling 90-day prescriptions, which are counted as three 30-day prescriptions. The company exceeded by 3.8 percentage points the industry-wide prescription growth rate, excluding Walgreens, during the same period as reported by IMS Health. As of May 31, Walgreens increased its retail pharmacy market share 60 basis points from a year ago to 19.7 percent.
 
 
2
 
 
Gross profit margins increased 10 basis points to 27.6 percent versus the year-ago quarter of 27.5 percent.  Margins benefited from lower Rewiring for Growth expenses, fewer product markdowns versus a year ago and a smaller provision for LIFO. At the same time, gross profit margins were adversely affected by market-driven pharmacy reimbursements that more than offset the positive impact of generic drug sales.
 
Selling, general and administrative expense dollars in the third quarter grew 8.6 percent over the year-ago period. Total expense growth was offset by savings from our restructuring activities, primarily in store related salaries and expenses. SG&A costs related to Rewiring for Growth were $13 million in the quarter and $34 million in the year-ago period. The combined impact in the quarter of Rewire costs, and Duane Reades acquisition-related costs and operating SG&A, contributed 2.6 percentage points to the companys total SG&A dollar growth.
 
During the quarter, Walgreens recorded an income tax charge of $43 million after tax or 4 cents per diluted share as a result of the repeal of the tax benefit for the Medicare Part D subsidy for retiree benefits.
CVS Caremark Agreement
 
On June 18, the company reached an agreement with CVS Caremark Corp. to continue participating in its pharmacy benefit management network. The agreement was multi-year and provides the framework needed for Walgreens to operate its business going forward.
 
We are very pleased with the outcome of this mutual, multi-year agreement that met our business objectives, said Kermit R. Crawford, Walgreens executive vice president of pharmacy. The agreement is good for our patients, pharmacists and shareholders and will allow us to continue to meet the needs of our customers across the country through the CVS Caremark network. As a result of the agreement, we look forward to building a mutually beneficial relationship with CVS Caremark going forward.
 
3
 
Core Strategies and Milestones
 
Walgreens continues executing its three core growth strategies  to leverage the best store network in America, enhance the customer experience and drive cost reductions and productivity gains.
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
In the quarter, the company opened 94 drugstores and acquired 258 Duane Reade drugstores and nine other drugstores (a net gain of 342 after relocations and closings) compared with 202 (or a net gain of 179) in the year ago quarter. Walgreens expects organic store growth of between 4.5 and 5 percent in fiscal 2010 and between 2.5 and 3 percent annually beginning in 2011.
 
As of May 31, 2010, Walgreens operated 8,019 locations in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Guam. The company has 7,522 drugstores nationally, including 117 hospital on-site pharmacies. Walgreens also operates worksite health centers, home care facilities and specialty and mail service pharmacies. Its Take Care Health Systems subsidiary manages more than 700 in-store convenient care clinics and worksite health and wellness centers.
 
Walgreens will hold a one-hour conference call to discuss the third quarter results beginning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time today, June 22. The conference call will be simulcast through Walgreens investor relations website at: http://investor.walgreens.com. A replay of the conference call will be archived on the website for 12 months after the call. A podcast also will be available on the investor relations website.
 
The replay also will be available from 11:30 a.m. Eastern time, June 22 through June 29 by calling 888-203-1112 within the U.S. and Canada, or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S. and Canada, using replay code 7094415.
 
 
This news release may contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The following factors could cause results to differ materially from management expectations as projected in such forward-looking statements: seasonal variations, competition, risks of new business areas, the availability and cost of real estate and construction, and changes in federal or state legislation or regulations. Investors are referred to the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in the Companys most recent Form 10-K, which Note is incorporated into this news release by reference.
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
#    #    #    #    #
 
8


