FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20110621073529.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On June 21, 2011, Walgreen Co. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended May 31, 2011.  A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
This information, including exhibits attached hereto and the information under Item 7.01 below, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  This information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to this Form 8-K in such a filing.
Item 7.01                      Regulation FD Disclosure.
In addition to issuing a press release, Walgreen Co. is also conducting a conference call and webcast regarding results for the quarter ended May 31, 2011 and the matter described in Item 8.01 below.  Slides prepared for the purposes of the conference call are available on the Walgreens investor relations website at http://investor.walgreens.com.
Item 8.01.                      Other Events.
On June 21, 2011, Walgreen Co. issued a press release announcing that contract renewal negotiations with pharmacy benefit manager Express Scripts, Inc. have been unsuccessful, and that as a result the company was planning not to be part of Express Scripts, Inc.s pharmacy provider network as of January 1, 2012.  A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
This report shall not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any of the information described herein or in the related exhibit hereto.  Except to the extent required by law, the registrant undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement included in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibits are being furnished as part of this Form 8-K:
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
3
 
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Walgreen Co. Corporate Communications   200 Wilmot Road Deerfield, Ill. 60015(847) 315-2500
l
 
l
 
l
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEERFIELD, Ill., June 21, 2011  Walgreen Co. (NYSE, NASDAQ: WAG) today announced record earnings and sales for the third quarter of fiscal year 2011.
 
Net earnings per diluted share for the quarter ended May 31 increased 38.3 percent to 65 cents, compared with 47 cents per diluted share in the year-ago quarter. This years results include the impact of 1 cent per diluted share in restructuring and restructuring-related costs associated with the companys Rewiring for Growth initiative. Last years third quarter results included the negative impact of 4 cents per diluted share from the elimination of the tax benefit for the Medicare Part D subsidy for retiree benefits that was the result of the enactment of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, 2 cents per diluted share from costs associated with the Duane Reade acquisition and 1 cent per diluted share in costs associated with Rewiring for Growth. Net earnings were $603 million, a 30.3 percent increase from $463 million in the same quarter a year ago.
 
During the third quarter, the company returned $535 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.  Cash flow from operations for the quarter reached $1.2 billion, for a total of $3.3 billion year to date.
 
 
 
 
We are pleased with our very solid performance in the third quarter as we were able to meet our financial goal of double-digit growth in earnings per share, said Walgreens President and CEO Greg Wasson. Our business strategies resulted in strong quarterly sales and increased cash flow. As fuel prices remain high, further stretching household budgets, we serve as a convenient destination for health and daily living.
 
Net earnings for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 were $1.9 billion or $2.07 per diluted share, including impacts of 2 cents per diluted share in costs associated with Rewiring for Growth and 1 cent per diluted share in Duane Reade integration costs. Net earnings per diluted share for the year to date represent a 26.2 percent increase from last years $1.64 per diluted share, which included 6 cents per diluted share in restructuring costs, 4 cents per diluted share for the Medicare Part D tax subsidy repeal and 2 cents per diluted share in Duane Reade acquisition costs.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
Sales
 
Third quarter sales increased 6.8 percent from the prior-year quarter to a record $18.4 billion. Total sales in comparable stores (those open more than a year) increased 4.1 percent in the quarter, while front-end comparable drugstore sales increased 3.9 percent in the quarter.
 
Prescription sales, which accounted for 65.1 percent of sales in the quarter, climbed 6.4 percent, while prescription sales in comparable stores increased 4.1 percent. The company filled 210 million prescriptions, an increase of 5.8 percent over last years third quarter. Prescriptions filled in comparable stores increased 4.6 percent in the quarter. The company exceeded by 3.5 percentage points the prescription growth rate of the rest of the industry during the same period as reported by IMS Health. For the third quarter, Walgreens increased its retail prescription market share to 20.1 percent.
 
Our comparable store sales this quarter demonstrated our business was resilient in an ongoing tough economy, said Wasson.  We saw healthy increases across our consumables, cough/cold, pain/sleep, personal care and beauty categories, along with continued strength in our private brand products as we delivered the combination of assortment, accessibility and value relevant to our customers.
 
Customer traffic in comparable stores increased 1.7 percent for the third quarter, while basket size increased 2.2 percent.
 
 
 
 
Gross Profit
 
Gross profit margins increased 0.5 percentage point versus the year-ago quarter to 28.1 as a percentage to sales. Helping overall margins was the positive impact of generic drug sales and higher front end margins.  These increases were partially offset by continued pharmacy reimbursement pressures and an increased LIFO provision of $50 million in this years quarter versus $18 million last year. Total gross profit dollars increased $405 million, or 8.5 percent, in the quarter, of which 1.5 percentage points was attributable to Duane Reade.
SG&A
 
Selling, general and administrative expenses in the third quarter grew $283 million, or 7.2 percent, over the year-ago period. Duane Reade costs accounted for 0.9 percentage point of the increase, while new store openings resulted in 1.5 percentage points of the growth. All other expenses, including comparable store and headquarter expense, accounted for 4.9 percentage points of the increase. Lower Rewiring for Growth expenses decreased the percentage change by 0.1 percentage point.
 
Operating margin as a percentage to sales increased to 5.2 percent in this years third quarter compared with 4.8 percent a year ago.
 
Walgreens opened or acquired 41 new drugstores (a net gain of 25 after relocations and closings) in the third quarter compared with 361, including 258 Duane Reade drugstores (or a net gain of 342) in the year-ago quarter. Walgreens expects organic store growth of between 2.5 and 3 percent in fiscal 2011.
ADDITIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
Improving Outcomes Through Coordinated Care
 
During the quarter, Walgreens developed collaborative relationships with a number of hospitals and health systems aimed at improving patient care and providing greater access to important health care services while lowering costs.
 
In May, Walgreens announced a wide-ranging agreement with Johns Hopkins Medicine (JHM) designed to promote collaboration on population-based research and to jointly review and develop protocols to improve outcomes of patients with chronic diseases. In addition, JHM and Walgreens will together explore the development of new models for improving care for individuals.
 
 
 
 
 Walgreens has also launched a program with Northwestern Memorial Physicians Group (NMPG) of Chicago designed to improve patient outcomes and enhance physician decision-making. The program, implemented for Walgreens and Northwestern Memorial employees who have NMPG as their primary care provider, focuses on those with hypertension, diabetes, asthma and hyperlipidemia. Patients with these high-cost chronic diseases will receive point-of-care counseling as part of the integrated services offered. Information from these interactions will be provided to each patients primary care physician, giving physicians access to important clinical information from Walgreens.
   
  
 
Take Care Health Systems, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Walgreens, has developed relationships with Ochsner Health System in New Orleans and Memorial in Health Jacksonville, Fla., through which physician practices will provide information on Take Care Clinics when their locations are closed or they are unable to schedule an appointment within a patients desired timeframe.
 
These coordinated care agreements further demonstrate the integral role Walgreens pharmacists, nurse practitioners and other health care service professionals can play in the future of health care delivery.
Other Company Activity
 
In other recent news, Walgreens completed its acquisition of drugstore.com, inc. on June 3, bringing it access to more than 3 million online customers and adding approximately 60,000 products to its online offering.  The company also completed the sale of its pharmacy benefits manager, Walgreens Health Initiatives, Inc., to Catalyst Health Solutions, Inc. on June 13.
 
Also today, Walgreens announced that contract renewal negotiations with pharmacy benefit manager Express Scripts, Inc. have been unsuccessful, and as a result the company is planning not to be part of Express Scripts pharmacy provider network as of Jan. 1, 2012. Beginning next year, Express Scripts network would no longer include Walgreens 7,700 pharmacies nationwide, including Walgreens more than 250 Duane Reade pharmacies in the New York City area. More details can be found in Walgreens press release issued today regarding its Express Scripts contract renewal negotiations at .
http://news.walgreens.com
 
 
 
 
As of May 31, Walgreens operated 8,171 locations in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Guam. The company has 7,715 drugstores nationally, including 131 medical facility pharmacies. Walgreens also operates worksite health and wellness centers, home care facilities and specialty and mail service pharmacies. Its Take Care Health Systems subsidiary manages more than 700 in-store convenient care clinics and worksite health and wellness centers.
 
Walgreens will hold a one-hour conference call to discuss the third quarter and first nine months results beginning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time today, June 21. The conference call will be simulcast through Walgreens investor relations website at: http://investor.walgreens.com.  A replay of the conference call will be archived on the website for 12 months after the call. A podcast also will be available on the investor relations website.
 
The replay also will be available from 11:30 a.m. Eastern time, June 21, through June 28, by calling 888-203-1112 within the U.S. and Canada, or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S. and Canada, using replay code 4515152.
Cautionary Note regarding Forward-Looking Statements:  Statements in this release that are not historical are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expect," likely, "outlook," "would," "could," "should," will, "project," "intend," "plan," "continue," "sustain," "on track," "believe," "seek," "estimate," "anticipate," "may," "assume," variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, assumptions and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the failure to obtain new contracts or extensions of existing contracts, changes in vendor, payer and customer relationships and terms, competition, changes in economic and business conditions, risks associated with new business initiatives and activities, the availability and cost of real estate and construction, risks associated with acquisitions and divestitures, the ability to realize anticipated results from capital expenditures and cost reduction initiatives, outcomes of legal and regulatory matters, and changes in legislation or regulations.  These and other risks, assumptions and uncertainties are described in Item 1A (Risk Factors) of our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, each of which is incorporated herein by reference and in other documents that we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated or anticipated by such forward-looking statements. Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent required by law, Walgreens undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement after the distribution of this release, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
Contact:  Michael Polzin
      (847) 315-2920
 
 
DEERFIELD, Ill., June 21, 2011  Walgreens (NYSE, NASDAQ: WAG) today said that contract renewal negotiations with pharmacy benefit manager Express Scripts, Inc. (NASDAQ: ESRX) have been unsuccessful, and as a result the company is planning not to be part of Express Scripts pharmacy provider network as of Jan. 1, 2012.  Beginning next year, Express Scripts network would no longer include Walgreens 7,700 pharmacies nationwide, including Walgreens more than 250 Duane Reade pharmacies in the New York City area.
 
While we have sought to negotiate a contract renewal agreement over the past several months, those talks have been unsuccessful, said Walgreens President and CEO Greg Wasson. Under the terms proposed by Express Scripts, it would not make good business sense for the strategic direction of our company to continue our relationship with them. Walgreens is committed to providing quality, convenient and cost-effective pharmacy services to our patients, but we cannot continue to deliver these services under the terms and rates Express Scripts offered.  As the largest retail provider in their pharmacy network, we were surprised by Express Scripts ultimate stance during our talks, which made it clear to us that they no longer had an interest in continuing a meaningful relationship.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Walgreens said it had reluctantly reached this conclusion for the following reasons:
 
In their intermediary role as a pharmacy benefit manager, Express Scripts processes approximately 90 million prescriptions that are expected to be filled by Walgreens in fiscal 2011,
 
 
 
 
representing approximately $5.3 billion in annual sales. We believe the long-term ramifications
of accepting Express Scripts proposal with below market rates and minimal predictability for the services we provide would have been much worse than any short-term impact to our earnings, said Walgreens Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Wade Miquelon. All parties involved in providing health care must work together to bring down costs. In a world where cost effectiveness and access to health care is so important, any time an intermediary continues to disproportionately grow its profit per prescription at the expense of the provider delivering the service, the relationship is out of balance.
 
Moving forward, Walgreens noted that Medicare Part D patients who use its pharmacies will continue to have the option during the open enrollment period near the end of the year to choose a Part D plan that includes Walgreens.  In addition, some Express Scripts clients may have the ability to include Walgreens as part of their benefit offering. As a result, Walgreens said it will look for opportunities to have discussions with Express Scripts clients, consistent with their contractual agreements, to ensure their beneficiaries can continue to use the convenience of Walgreens nationwide locations.
 
We believe that the vast majority of patients, employers and payers will continue to value the quality, cost effectiveness and convenience of Walgreens pharmacy network, with the most accessible national coverage and trusted pharmacist relationships, said Miquelon. With our understanding that a significant portion of all prescriptions processed by PBMs, managed care organizations and others are directly or indirectly up for renewal each year, we are optimistic about our ability to grow our business over time.
 
Walgreens today operates the largest retail pharmacy network in the country serving more than 40 million customers each week, with pharmacies within three miles of nearly two-thirds of all Americans, the most 24-hour and drive-thru pharmacies and a fully integrated online pharmacy to offer patients unmatched access to pharmacy care.
 
 
 
 
Pharmacy, Health and Wellness Kermit Crawford. As we continue to serve patients whose
Our community pharmacists are on the front line of helping to lower overall health care costs through medication adherence programs, generic conversion programs, immunization and vaccination services, and face-to-face counseling on a daily basis, said Walgreens President of
prescription drug benefit plans use Express Scripts through the rest of 2011, we regret any disruption they may face beginning in 2012. We intend to do all we can to serve our patients, and are committed to working with the many companies who value Walgreens services and are seeking to provide pharmacy, health and wellness solutions.
 
Walgreens () is the nation's largest drugstore chain with fiscal 2010 sales of $67 billion. The company operates 7,715 drugstores in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Each day, Walgreens provides nearly 6 million customers the most convenient, multichannel access to consumer goods and services and trusted, cost-effective pharmacy, health and wellness services and advice in communities across America. Walgreens scope of pharmacy services includes retail, specialty, infusion, medical facility and mail service, along with respiratory services. These services improve health outcomes and lower costs for payers including employers, managed care organizations, health systems, pharmacy benefit managers and the public sector. Take Care Health Systems is a Walgreens subsidiary that is the largest and most comprehensive manager of worksite health and wellness centers and in-store convenient care clinics, with more than 700 locations throughout the country.
www.walgreens.com
Cautionary Note regarding Forward-Looking Statements: Statements in this release that are not historical are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include statements regarding our plans to cease participation in the Express Scripts pharmacy provider network and the possible impact thereof, the likelihood of any possible agreement and the terms or timing thereof, and our future business prospects.  Words such as "expect," likely, "outlook," "would," "could," "should," will, "project," "intend," "plan," "continue," "sustain," "on track," "believe," "seek," "estimate," "anticipate," "may," "assume," variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, assumptions and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the failure to obtain new contracts or extensions of existing contracts, changes in vendor, payer and customer relationships and terms, competition, changes in economic and business conditions, risks associated with new business initiatives and activities, and outcomes of legal and regulatory matters. These and other risks, assumptions and uncertainties are described in Item 1A (Risk Factors) of our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, each of which is incorporated herein by reference and in other documents that we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated or anticipated by such forward-looking statements. Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent required by law, Walgreens undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement after the distribution of this release, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise.
 


