FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20111109094533.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Walgreen Co. plans to distribute the attached informational materials regarding Express Scripts, Inc. to various industry participants and others. A copy of these materials is attached as attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This report shall not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any of the events described in this Item or in such exhibit.
 
 
 
Statements in this report that are not historical, including, without limitation, statements regarding future prescription growth and business retention, are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expect," "likely", "outlook," "forecast", "would," "could," "should," "will," "project," "intend," "plan," "continue," "sustain," "on track," "believe," "seek," "estimate," "anticipate," "may," "possible," "assume," variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, assumptions and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the changes in vendor, payer and customer relationships and terms, competition, industry consolidation and the effects thereof, changes in economic and business conditions, risks associated with new business initiatives and activities, failure to obtain new contracts or extensions of existing contracts, and outcomes of legal and regulatory matters. These and other risks, assumptions and uncertainties are described in Item 1A (Risk Factors) of our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference, and in other documents that we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated or anticipated by such forward-looking statements. Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent required by law, Walgreens does not undertake, and expressly disclaims, any duty or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement after the date of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
We wanted to address a number of questions we have recently received regarding Express Scripts.
 
We cannot comment on their business, but we can tell you that based on Walgreens current estimates, and the current assumption that we will not be in Express Scripts' pharmacy networks beginning Jan. 1, 2012, including for clients such as Tricare and WellPoint, Walgreens expects to achieve 97 to 99 percent of its fiscal 2011 prescription volume in fiscal 2012. In addition, we can tell you the following regarding our current Express Scripts business:
 
In addition, thousands of small employer groups purchase combined pharmacy and medical benefits from health plans, and typically renew annually. In many cases, these plans are "customers of Express Scripts' customers." Many are selecting combined medical/pharmacy plans that include Walgreens. So, for example, the portion of scripts that seems locked down for Express Scripts as "WellPoint" really is not locked down if WellPoint loses small group customers to other plans in the competitive marketplace. We have an extensive outreach program with brokers and sponsors for these small employer groups.
 
 
 
 
Walgreens plans to work with other PBMs and with health plans to recapture Express Scripts script volume over time. We believe those PBMs and health plans with Walgreens in their networks will be at a significant advantage during next year's selling season.
 
 
 
Based on what we're hearing from them, payers recognize a) the value of having Walgreens in their pharmacy network, and b) they gain little or no benefit from a network that excludes Walgreens.
 
To offer just one illustration of the savings we provide, Walgreens drives a greater penetration of lower-cost generic drugs  nearly 74 percent penetration for Express Scripts clients in 2010  than the industry as a whole. This penetration was 140 basis points better than the average of Express Scripts' retail network that does not include Walgreens (based on Express Scripts' data). This better generic performance translates into average savings of around $2 per script, or an estimated $180 million savings last year to Express Scripts and its clients.
 
We understand that Express Scripts itself has told some customers that its "50K" network will not experience any significant savings by excluding Walgreens.
In fact, Express Scripts made clear on its earnings call that its clients will see any savings from being shifted to a narrower pharmacy network without Walgreens and patients in Express Scripts-
not
 
administered plans being forced to switch. As Express Scripts stated, "Those prices don't reset. It is where it is."
Payers recognize that while excluding Walgreens will result in little to no savings, in some cases it will actually raise costs while causing significant patient disruption, risking gaps in care, and increasing administrative costs on plan sponsors caused by member complaints and dissatisfaction.
 
As noted above, many payers are expressing interest in entering a direct or custom network arrangement with Walgreens  recognizing our value, the lack of savings with a network without Walgreens, and the disruption to patients from Express Scripts' stance  but they are finding their contractual options with Express Scripts are limited. Some have expressed frustration at the steps Express Scripts is taking to ensure they do not enter a direct or custom network with Walgreens.
 
We are not seeing that, and the fundamental reason is because no meaningful savings have been demonstrated, since most pharmacy reimbursements are in a very tight range.
 
 
 
 
That is not true. In fact, Walgreens has offered Express Scripts a number of cost-saving concessions that would, in effect, hold annual average prescription reimbursement cost increases to within 2 percent annually over the next three years, and potentially would be flat  during the same period when Express Scripts' own 2010 Drug Trend Report shows drug costs increasing by more than 3 percent annually.
 
No. Another very critical cost-savings from Walgreens is that we promote 90-day at retail prescriptions in addition to offering 90-day prescriptions through the mail. We have found that for chronic medications, 90-day at retail offers 6 to 8 percent savings compared with three 30-day scripts. In the
 
short time since launching our 90-day at retail program, Walgreens growth in penetration of 90-day at retail for chronic medication is similar to that of the three largest PBMs. This means not only more choice for consumers, but also more savings for plan sponsors.
In our contract renewal negotiations, Express Scripts rejected Walgreens offers to promote 90-day at retail prescriptions in spite of the consumer choice and savings for plan sponsors. We would note that promoting 90-day at retail would conflict with Express Scripts' focus on its own mail order pharmacy.
 
No, but this is how Express Scripts tries to support its erroneous claim that Walgreens will raise costs by 20 percent. In fact, Express Scripts' proposal would result in Walgreens money on each script for a new generic drug while Express Scripts makes a substantial profit spread.
losing
 
 
 
 
No. Express Scripts has not responded to our offer of an ironclad guarantee for DoD/TRICARE, through which Walgreens prices would match or beat the average costs per adjusted prescription of all other retail pharmacies in the DoD/TRICARE network.
 
 
 
 
 
The core of this dispute is Express Scripts' approach toward community pharmacies such as Walgreens. Express Scripts offered reimbursement rates below the industry average cost to fill and acquire a prescription.
 
 
Walgreens  like anyone else  appreciates the opportunity to work with any party willing to negotiate in good faith toward an agreement that provides fair and competitive terms and rates. If in this case, we remain unable to do so, we are prepared to move forward without Express Scripts and continue to work with multiple other network providers that not only value their relationship with Walgreens, but also understand that the best way to save customers money in pharmacy and health care is to have a broad and stable network of pharmacy providers such as Walgreens.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Statements in this document that are not historical, including, without limitation, statements regarding future prescription growth and business retention, are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expect," "likely," "outlook," "forecast," "would," "could," "should," "will," "project," "intend," "plan," "continue," "sustain," "on track," "believe," "seek," "estimate," "anticipate," "may," "possible," "assume," and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, assumptions and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the changes in vendor, payer and customer relationships and terms, competition, industry consolidation and the effects thereof, changes in economic and business conditions, risks associated with new business initiatives and activities, failure to obtain new contracts or extensions of existing contracts, and outcomes of legal and regulatory matters. These and other risks, assumptions and uncertainties are described in Item 1A (Risk Factors) of our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference, and in other documents that we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated or anticipated by such forward-looking statements. Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent required by law, Walgreens does not undertake, and expressly disclaims, any duty or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement after the date of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise.
 


