FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20111014173241.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. .
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(e) On October 12, 2011, Walgreen Co. (the "Company") amended and restated the Walgreen Co. Section 162(m) Deferred Compensation Plan (the "162(m) Plan"). The amendment to the terms of the Section 162(m) Plan provides for the accumulation of dividends and dividend equivalents on shares or units that have been deferred under the Section 162(m) Plan. As previously disclosed, effective July 1, 2011, the 162(m) Plan was frozen such that no person shall become a new participant in the 162(m) Plan on or after such date, and no amount will be designated for deferral under the 162(m) Plan with respect to compensation earned during years beginning on or after such date. The Company plans to seek shareholder approval at its upcoming Annual Meeting of Shareholders of an umbrella plan to fund a maximum pool of incentive bonus payments to be allocated to certain executives under the terms of the Company's Management Incentive Plan or other incentive plans. Upon the adoption and approval of such plan by the Company's shareholders, the Company intends that annual cash incentive payments to such executives under such plan qualify as "performance-based compensation" and be fully deductible by the Company for federal income tax purposes under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The foregoing summary is not intended to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Section 162(m) Plan, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Amendment and Restatement of the Section 162(m) Deferred Compensation Plan.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Whenever used herein, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below, and, when the defined meaning is intended, the term is capitalized:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the provisions herein, the Committee shall have full power to determine which Eligible Employees of the Company are Participants; to determine the terms and conditions of each Employee's participation in the Plan; to construe and interpret the Plan and any agreement or instrument entered into under the Plan; to establish, amend, or waive rules and regulations for the Plan's administration; to amend (subject to the provisions of Article 8 herein) the terms and conditions of the Plan and any agreement entered into under the Plan; and to make other determinations which may be necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.
Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Bylaws of the Company and applicable law, the Committee may delegate any or all of its authority granted under the Plan to any individual or entity, including but not limited to an executive or executives of the Company.
 
 
The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws, as a matter of law or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any such deferral election must be made prior to the beginning of the Year or Years in which the deferred compensation subject to the election would otherwise be earned; provided, however, that should the Committee elect to designate a portion of excess Compensation attributable to base pay for deferral in a calendar year pursuant to Section 4.2 above, then the Participant's election to defer payment of such Compensation to a date later than the Default Commencement Date may be made prior to the first day of the calendar in which the Compensation subject to the deferral election would otherwise be earned.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest earned on deferred amounts shall be paid out to Participants at the same time and in the same manner as the underlying deferred amounts.
 
 
Participants may change their designations of beneficiary on such form as prescribed by the Committee. The payment of amounts deferred under the Plan shall be in accordance with the last unrevoked written designation of beneficiary that has been signed by the Participant and delivered by the Participant to the Senior Vice President Human Resources, of the Company or such other officer as may be designated by the Committee, prior to the Participant's death.
In the event that all the beneficiaries named by a Participant pursuant to this Section 5.4 predecease the Participant, the amounts that would have been paid to the Participant or the Participant's beneficiaries hereunder shall be paid to the Participant's estate.
In the event a Participant does not designate a beneficiary, or for any reason such designation is ineffective, in whole or in part, the amounts that otherwise would have been paid to the Participant or the Participant's beneficiaries under the Plan shall be paid to the Participant's estate.
 
 
 
 
 
The Company shall have the right to require Participants to remit to the Company an amount sufficient to satisfy Federal, state, and local withholding tax requirements, or to deduct from all payments made pursuant to the Plan amounts sufficient to satisfy withholding tax requirements.
 
The Company hereby reserves the right to amend, modify, or terminate the Plan at any time by action of the Committee. Except as described below in this Article 8, no such amendment or termination shall in any material manner adversely affect any Participant's rights accrued with respect to deferred amounts and interest earned thereon without the consent of the Participant.
The Plan is intended to be an unfunded plan maintained primarily to provide deferred compensation benefits for a select group of management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of Sections 201, 301, and 401 of ERISA, and therefore, to be exempt from the provisions of Parts 2, 3, and 4 of Title I of ERISA. Accordingly, the Board may terminate the Plan and commence termination payout for all or certain Participants, or remove certain employees as Participants, if it is determined by the United States Department of Labor or a court of competent jurisdiction that the Plan constitutes an employee pension benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(2) of ERISA which is not so exempt. If payout is commenced pursuant to the operation of this Article 8, the payment of such amounts shall be made as provided under Section 4 herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


