FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20110715170031.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02
.
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
.
     (e) On July 13, 2011, the Company adopted Amendment No. 5 to the Walgreen Co. Section 162(m) Deferred Compensation Plan (the "162(m) Plan"). This Amendment provides that, effective on or after July 1, 2011, the 162(m) Plan is frozen with no person becoming a new participant in the 162(m) Plan on or after such date. The Amendment also provides that for compensation earned during years beginning on or after July 1, 2011, no amount will be designated for deferral under the 162(m) Plan. The foregoing summary is not intended to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of such amendment, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Amendment to
162(m)
Mandatory Deferral Plan.
     The Company plans to seek shareholder approval at its upcoming Annual Meeting of Shareholders of an umbrella plan to fund a maximum pool of incentive bonus payments to be allocated to certain executives under the terms of the Company's Management Incentive Plan or other incentive plans. Upon the adoption and approval of such plan by the Company's shareholders, the Company intends that annual cash incentive payments to such executives under such plan qualify as "performance-based compensation" and be fully deductible by the Company for federal income tax purposes under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Internal Revenue Code").
     On July 13, 2011, the Company adopted the Walgreen Co. Executive Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2012 (the "Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan"). The Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan provides eligible employees the opportunity to save for retirement through the voluntary deferral of earned compensation and through the crediting of employer profit-sharing credits in order to provide benefits that are not taxable until the time of distribution. The Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan is an unfunded, nonqualified deferred compensation plan intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. Pursuant to the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan, the Company provides eligible employees, including members of senior management, who participate in the Walgreen Co. Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan and whose contributions under the Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan are limited by Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code the opportunity to defer a specified percentage of their annual base salary (up to 50%) and annual bonus (up to 85%). The amount of compensation to be deferred by each participating eligible employee (individually, a "participant" and collectively, the "participants") is determined in accordance with the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan based on elections by each participant. In addition, for each plan year, a participant's employer profit-sharing subaccount under the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan will be credited with the additional amount that would have been allocated to the participant under the Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan if the Internal Revenue Code limitation did not apply as well as any additional amount as determined by resolution of the Company's Board of Directors (or its delegate) to each participant who qualifies for such additional credit based on the criteria set forth in such resolution. The Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan is intended to provide participants a comparable level of retirement benefits to those provided to other participants in the Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan who are not affected by the Internal Revenue Code limitation, relative to their compensation.
Amended and Restated Executive Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan.
 
     Each payment obligation for distribution of the deferred compensation is payable in cash on a date or dates determined in accordance with the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan. Amounts deferred under the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan will be credited to bookkeeping accounts maintained by the Company for each participant and will be credited or debited with the participant's proportionate share of any gains or losses attributable to the performance of investment options selected by the participant, which consist of certain funds that are also offered under the Walgreen Co. Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan. Accounts of participants under the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan are not funded and payment obligations pursuant to such plan are unsecured general obligations of the Company. The Company reserves the right to amend or terminate the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan at any time, provided that no such action generally will alter a participant's right to receive a payment due under the terms of such plan at the date of the action.
     The foregoing summary is not intended to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01
.
Other Events
.
     On July 13, 2011, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized a new $2 billion share repurchase program, which will expire December 31, 2015. The timing and amount of any common stock repurchases will be determined by management based on market conditions and other considerations, and may change at any time. Such repurchases may be effected in open market transactions, privately negotiated transactions, and/or pursuant to instruments and plans complying with Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company also announced that it had completed the $1 billion share repurchase program announced in October 2010.
     The Board of Directors also declared a quarterly cash dividend on the Company's Common Stock and approved an increase in the quarterly dividend from 17.5 cents to 22.5 cents per share. The dividend of 22.5 cents per share declared on July 13, 2011, is payable September 12, 2011 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on August 19, 2011.
     A copy of the Company's press release announcing these matters is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This report shall not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any of the events described in this Item or in such exhibit.
Item 9.01
.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
(d)
Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 10.1
The Walgreen Co. Section 162(m) Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan") is amended to add the following sentence to the end of Section 4.1 (Eligibility and Participation):
     "Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective on or after July 1, 2011, the Plan shall be frozen and no Eligible Employee shall first become a Participant in the Plan for any purpose under the terms of the Plan on or after such date. Therefore, any eligible employee who had not become a participant in the Plan on or before July 1, 2011 shall not become a Participant on or after such date."
The Walgreen Co. Section 162(m) Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan") is amended to add the following sentence to the end of Section 4.2 (Amount Deferred):
     "Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective for Compensation earned during Years beginning on or after July 1, 2011, no amount shall be designated for deferral under the Plan by the Committee."

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
     1.1. . Walgreen Co. (the "Company") established the Walgreen Co. Executive Deferred Profit Sharing Plan (the "Plan"), effective January 1, 1990, for the benefit of eligible employees. The Plan was amended and restated in its entirety effective January 1, 2003, and was further amended effective as of January 1, 2005 and January 1, 2008. The Plan is hereby further amended and restated in its entirety, effective as of January 1, 2012, as set forth herein. The purpose of the Plan, as amended and restated herein, is to provide eligible employees with the opportunity to defer compensation on a pre-tax basis, and to receive Employer Profit-Sharing Credits.
Name and Purpose
     1.2. . The Effective Date of the amended and restated Plan is January 1, 2012. The Plan shall be administered on a calendar year basis (the "Plan Year").
Effective Date and Plan Year
     2.1. "" means the recordkeeping account established by the Administrators pursuant to Article VI to record a Participant's accrued benefit under the Plan.
Account
     2.2. "" means the persons appointed to administer the Plan pursuant to Section 8.1.
Administrators
     2.3. "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations issued thereunder.
Code
     2.4. "" means the portions of a Participant's base salary and/or bonus, if any, that he or she elects to defer under Article IV.
Deferral Credits
     2.5. "" means an election by a Participant to defer base salary and/or bonuses in accordance with the provisions of Article IV.
Deferral Election
     2.6. "" means the amount of earnings, gains, losses and expenses debited or credited to a Participant's Account pursuant to Section 6.2.
Earnings Gains and Losses
     2.7. "" means the portion of a Participant's Account consisting of Deferral Credits and Earnings Gains and Losses thereon.
Employee Deferral Subaccount
 
     2.8. "" means the amounts credited to a Participant's Employer Profit-Sharing Subaccount pursuant to Article V.
Employer Profit-Sharing Credits
     2.9. "" means the portion of a Participant's Account consisting of Employer Profit-Sharing Credits and Earnings Gains and Losses thereon.
Employer Profit-Sharing Subaccount
     2.10. "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the regulations issued thereunder.
ERISA
     2.11. "" means the portion of a Participant's Account that were credited to the Account and became fully vested prior to January 1, 2005.
Grandfathered Account
     2.12. "" means the portion of a Participant's Account that is not a Grandfathered Account.
Non-Grandfathered Account
     2.13. "" means the calendar year.
Plan Year
     2.14. "" means the Walgreen Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2010.
Profit-Sharing Plan
     2.15. "" means the limitation imposed by Section 401(a)(17) of the Code on the amount of a Participant's compensation that may be taken into account under the Profit-Sharing Plan.
Profit-Sharing Plan Compensation Limitation
     3.1. Each employee of the Company or one of its subsidiaries who is a participant in the Profit-Sharing Plan shall be eligible to become a Participant in the Plan if the employee's "Salary Conversion Contributions" under Section 4.1 of the Profit-Sharing Plan are limited by the Profit-Sharing Plan Compensation Limitation.
Eligibility
.
     3.2. . The Plan is an unfunded plan maintained primarily to provide deferred compensation benefits for a select group of "management or highly-compensated employees" within the meaning of Sections 201, 301, and 401 of ERISA, and therefore is exempt from the provisions of Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of ERISA. The Board of Directors of the Company may terminate the Plan or remove certain employees as Participants if it is determined by the United States Department of Labor, a court of competent jurisdiction, or an opinion of counsel, that the Plan constitutes an employee pension benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(2) of ERISA which is not so exempt.
Status under ERISA
     4.1. . A Participant may elect to defer under the Plan any amount he or she is unable to contribute on a pre-tax basis to the Profit-Sharing Plan due to
Participant Deferral Credits
 
application of the Profit-Sharing Plan Compensation Limitation by filing a Deferral Election in accordance with Section 4.2. The amount of such deferral shall not be in excess of 50 percent of the Participant's base salary (as in effect at the time the election is made) and 85 percent of the Participant's annual bonus. Deductions will be made pursuant to such Deferral Election during any Plan Year following the date the Participant's compensation under the Profit-Sharing Plan reaches the Profit-Sharing Plan Compensation Limitation. The deferral applicable to base pay shall be reduced in substantially equal amounts from the base salary otherwise periodically payable to the Participant over the Plan Year (or over a portion of such Plan Year as deemed administratively practicable). All Deferral Credits shall be credited to the Participant's Employee Deferral Subaccount.
     4.2. . A Participant's Deferral Election shall be in writing (or by electronic means established by the Administrators), and must be made during the election period established by the Administrators which period shall end no later than the day preceding the first day of the Plan Year in which the base salary or bonus is earned. An employee who first becomes a Participant in the Plan on or after the first day of a Plan Year may make a Deferral Election within 30 days after he or she first becomes a Participant, if and to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A; provided, however, that such Deferral Election shall only apply to base salary and bonuses earned after the Participant's Deferral Election is received by the Administrators. All Deferral Elections shall become irrevocable as of the end of the deferral election period.
Deferral Elections
     4.3. . A Participant shall at all times be 100 percent vested in amounts credited to his or her Employee Deferral Subaccount.
Vesting
     5.1. . For each Plan Year, each Participant's Employer Profit-Sharing Subaccount shall be credited with the sum of the following amounts:
Amount of Employer Profit Sharing Credits
     5.2. . A Participant shall be vested in his or her Employer Profit-Sharing Subaccount to the same extent as the Participant is vested in his or her Employer Contribution Account under the Profit-Sharing Plan.
Vesting
 
     6.1. The Company shall establish and maintain a recordkeeping account (the "Account") in the name of each Participant, which Account shall be comprised of the Employee Deferral Subaccount and the Employer Profit-Sharing Subaccount. A Participant's Account shall at all times be reflected on the Company's books as a general unsecured and unfunded obligation of the Company, and the Plan shall not give any person any right or security interest in any asset of the Company nor shall it imply any trust or segregation of assets by the Company.
Accounts
.
     6.2. .
Adjustments to Participant Accounts
     7.1. A Participant who incurs a separation from service with the Company, dies or becomes disabled shall be entitled to payment of the vested portion of his or her Account at the time and in the manner provided in Section 7.2 below. For purposes of this Article VII, the terms separation from service' and disabled' shall have the meanings set forth in Code Section 409A. If a Participant is not 100 percent vested in his or her Employer Profit-Sharing Subaccount at the time of the distribution event, the non-vested portion shall be forfeited.
Payment of Account Balances
.
     7.2. The Administrators, in their sole discretion, shall determine the time and manner in which a Participant's Grandfathered Account balance shall be distributed, which may include the methods permitted under the Profit-Sharing Plan.
Time and Manner of Payment of Grandfathered Account Balances
.
 
     7.3. .
Time and Manner of Payment of Non-Grandfathered Account Balances
 
 
     7.4. Amounts credited to or paid from the Employer Profit-Sharing Subaccount of the Plan shall not be considered to be compensation for the purposes of any qualified plan maintained by the Company. The treatment of such amounts under other employee benefit plans or programs shall be determined pursuant to the provisions of such plans or programs.
Effect on Other Benefit Plans
.
     7.5. If the Participant or his or her beneficiary is entitled to payments under the Plan and in the opinion of the Administrators such person becomes in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the Company may make payments to the Participant's or beneficiary's legal representative or similar person, to a custodian under the Uniform Gifts or Transfers to Minors Act of any state, or in such other manner for the benefit of the Participant or beneficiary that the Trustees consider advisable. Any payments made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge of any liability for such payment hereunder. Upon a Participant's death, payment under the Plan shall be made to the beneficiary or beneficiaries for such Participant under the Profit-Sharing Plan. Any payments made in accordance with the preceding sentences shall be a full and complete discharge of any liability for such payments hereunder.
Facility of Payment
.
     7.6. The full payment of a Participant's benefit under the Plan shall completely discharge all obligations on the part of the Company to the Participant (and the Participant's beneficiary) with respect to the operation of the Plan, and the Participant's (and Participant's beneficiary's) rights under the Plan shall terminate.
Effect of Payment
.
     7.7. The Company may withhold from any payment made by it under the Plan such amount or amounts as may be required for purposes of complying with the tax withholding or other provisions of the Code or the Social Security Act or any state's income tax act or for purposes of paying any estate, inheritance or other tax attributable to any amounts payable hereunder.
Withholding for Taxes
.
     8.1. The Plan shall be administered by the Trustees of the Profit-Sharing Plan, who will have, to the extent appropriate, the same powers, rights, duties, obligations and indemnity with respect to the Plan as they do with respect to the Profit-Sharing Plan. Consistent with such rights under the Profit-Sharing Plan, each determination provided for under the Plan shall be made by the Administrators under such procedures as may from time to time be prescribed by them, and shall be made in their absolute discretion. Any such determination shall be conclusive on all persons.
Administration
.
     8.2. If a Participant or his or her beneficiary is denied all or a portion of an expected benefit under the Plan for any reason, he or she may file a claim (and
Claims Procedures
.
 
thereafter appeal any denied claim) in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Summary Plan Description for the Profit-Sharing Plan, which are incorporated by reference herein for this purpose.
     9.1. The Company may, in its sole discretion, terminate or amend the Plan at any time. No such termination or amendment shall change the then existing credits to or adjustments of a Participant's Account or alter his or her right to receive a distribution thereof in accordance with Article VII; provided, however, that if the Company is liquidated, it shall have the exclusive right to determine the value of each Participant's Account, as of a date established by the Administrators and to pay any unpaid distributions in any manner which such Administrators determine to be just and equitable.
Amendment or Termination
.
     10.1. All rights and benefits under the Plan are personal to the Participant, and neither the Plan nor any right or interest of a Participant or any person arising under the Plan is subject to voluntary or involuntary alienation, sale, transfer, or assignment without the Company's consent.
Non-Alienation
.
     10.2. The Plan is not a contract of employment, and participation in the Plan will not give any Participant the right to be retained in the employ of the Company, nor any right or claim to any benefit under the Plan, unless the right or claim has specifically accrued under the Plan.
Employment Rights
.
     10.3. The Company shall be responsible for the payment of all benefits provided under the Plan. At its discretion, the Company may establish one or more trusts, with such trustees as the Administrators may approve, for the purpose of assisting in the payment of such benefits. Although such a trust shall be irrevocable, its assets shall be held for payment of all of the Company's general creditors in the event of insolvency. To the extent any benefits provided under the Plan are paid from any such trust, the Company shall have no further obligation to pay them. If not paid from the trust, such benefits shall remain the obligation of the Company.
Trust Fund
.
     10.4. Unless otherwise agreed to, the Plan is binding on and will inure to the benefit of any successor to the Company, whether by way of merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise.
Successors
.
     10.5. The Plan shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois.
Controlling Law
.
 
     10.6. If any provision of the Plan shall be found to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions of the Plan shall remain in full force and effect.
Severability
.
     10.7. To the extent that any portion of the Plan is subject to the rules under Code Section 409A, such portion of the Plan is not intended to result in acceleration of income recognition or imposition of penalty taxes by reason of Code Section 409A, and the terms of such portion of the Plan shall be interpreted in a manner (and such portion of the Plan may be amended to the extent determined necessary or appropriate by the Company) to avoid such acceleration and penalties. The Company may modify the time at which any Account balance will be vested or distributed if it determines that such modification may be necessary to avoid acceleration of tax or imposition of penalties under Code Section 409A. Regardless of whether the Company modifies or fails to modify the time at which any Account balance is vested or distributed, each Participant shall be solely liable for any taxes, penalties and interest (including without limitation those imposed under Code Section 409A) incurred with respect to all amounts credited to the Participants under the Plan.
Section 409A
.

Exhibit 99.1
     DEERFIELD, Ill., July 13, 2011  The board of directors of Walgreen Co. (NYSE, NASDAQ: WAG) today increased the quarterly dividend 28.6 percent  the largest quarterly dividend increase in the company's 110-year history  to 22.5 cents per share from the previous rate of 17.5 cents per share. The dividend is payable Sept. 12, 2011, to shareholders of record Aug. 19, 2011. The dividend increase raises the annual rate from 70 cents per share to 90 cents per share.
     The board also authorized a new $2 billion share repurchase program, which will expire Dec. 31, 2015.
     The company also announced that it has completed the $1 billion share repurchase program announced in October 2010.
     "This is our third share repurchase program announced since October 2009. Since then, we have completed $3 billion in share repurchases and paid $1.1 billion in dividends to shareholders," said Walgreens President and CEO Greg Wasson. "We have continued to deliver on our commitment to return cash to our shareholders consistent with our capital policy guidelines."
     Under those guidelines, Walgreens is committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet and financial flexibility, investing in core strategies and related strategic opportunities, and returning surplus cash to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases over the long term.
 
     Walgreens has paid a dividend in 315 straight quarters (more than 78 years) and has now raised its dividend for 36 consecutive years. Since the beginning of fiscal year 2007, Walgreens annual dividend rate has increased from 31 cents per share to 90 cents per share, resulting in a compound annual growth rate of 23.8 percent.
About Walgreens
Walgreens (www.walgreens.com) is the nation's largest drugstore chain with fiscal 2010 sales of $67 billion. The company operates 7,733 drugstores in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Each day, Walgreens provides nearly 6 million customers the most convenient, multichannel access to consumer goods and services and trusted, cost-effective pharmacy, health and wellness services and advice in communities across America. Walgreens scope of pharmacy services includes retail, specialty, infusion, medical facility and mail service, along with respiratory services. These services improve health outcomes and lower costs for payers including employers, managed care organizations, health systems, pharmacy benefit managers and the public sector. Take Care Health Systems is a Walgreens subsidiary that is the largest and most comprehensive manager of worksite health and wellness centers and in-store convenient care clinics, with more than 700 locations throughout the country.
     
(Please note: Stock exchanges typically set the ex-dividend date two business days before the shareholder-of-record date. This means if you purchase stock on the ex-dividend date or after, you will not receive the next dividend payment. If you purchase before the ex-dividend date, you will receive the dividend.)
     
Statements in this release that are not historical are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, assumptions and uncertainties, including those described in Item 1A (Risk Factors) of our most recent Annual Report on
Form 10-K
which is incorporated herein by reference and in other documents that we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated or anticipated by such forward-looking statements. Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent required by law, Walgreens does not undertake, and expressly disclaims, any duty or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement after the distribution of this release, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise.


