FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20110927073039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02           Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On September 27, 2011, Walgreen Co. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter and fiscal year ended August 31, 2011.  A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
This information, including exhibits attached hereto and the information under Item 7.01 below, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  This information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to this Form 8-K in such a filing.
Item 7.01           Regulation FD Disclosure.
In addition to issuing a press release, Walgreen Co. is also conducting a conference call and webcast regarding results for the quarter and fiscal year ended August 31, 2011.  Slides prepared for the purposes of the conference call are available on the Walgreens investor relations Web site at http://investor.walgreens.com.
Item 9.01           Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3

 
 
Walgreen Co. Corporate Communications          200 Wilmot Road Deerfield, Ill. 60015
l
   
l
    
l
    
(847) 914-2500
 
DEERFIELD, Ill., Sept. 27, 2011  Walgreen Co. (NYSE, NASDAQ: WAG) today announced strong sales and earnings results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2011 ended Aug. 31.
 
Fourth quarter sales increased 6.5 percent from the prior-year quarter to $18.0 billion. For fiscal year 2011, sales increased 7.1 percent from the prior year to a record $72.2 billion. Total sales in comparable stores (those open more than a year) increased 4.4 percent in the quarter,
while front-end comparable drugstore sales increased 4.6 percent in the quarter. Customer traffic in comparable stores increased 1.6 percent for the fourth quarter, while basket size increased 3.0 percent.
 
(more)
 
- 2 -
 
Excluding an after-tax gain of 30 cents per diluted share associated with the companys sale of its pharmacy benefits management business, Walgreens Health Initiatives, Inc. (WHI), adjusted earnings per diluted share for the fourth quarter increased 16.3 percent to 57 cents, compared with 49 cents per diluted share in the year-ago quarter. This years fourth quarter results include the negative impact of 2 cents per diluted share from the companys acquisition of drugstore.com, inc. and 1 cent per diluted share in restructuring and restructuring-related costs associated with the companys Rewiring for Growth initiative.  Last years fourth quarter results included the negative impact of 4 cents per diluted share related to the acquisition of Duane Reade and 1 cent per diluted share in Rewiring for Growth costs. Including the 30-cent per diluted share after-tax gain on the sale of WHI, net earnings per diluted share determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the fourth quarter were 87 cents, an increase of 77.6 percent over the prior fiscal year. Adjusted net earnings excluding the after-tax gain on the sale of WHI were $519 million, a 10.1 percent increase from $470 million in the same quarter a year ago, and GAAP net earnings for the fourth quarter were $792 million, and an increase of 68.2 percent over the prior fiscal year.
 
During fiscal 2011, the company returned $2.4 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends. Cash flow from operations for the fiscal year reached $3.6 billion. In July 2011, the company announced a new $2 billion share repurchase program, its third since October 2009, while increasing its quarterly dividend rate by 28.6 percent.
 
Walgreens delivered strong performance and growth for the quarter and the year by continuing our relentless focus on providing convenience and value to consumers, and cost-effective pharmacy, health and wellness solutions to the millions of patients we serve every day, said Walgreens President and CEO Greg Wasson. Through constant innovation and effective execution of our key initiatives, we continued to make substantial progress this year in the transformation of Walgreens to become the first choice for health and daily living  meeting the needs of both consumers and patients in todays challenging economy and changing health care system.
 
(more)
 
- 3 -
 
Net earnings for fiscal year 2011, adjusted to exclude the after-tax gain on the sale of WHI, were $2.4 billion or $2.64 per diluted share, which includes the impacts of 3 cents per diluted share in costs associated with Rewiring for Growth, 2 cents per diluted share from the acquisition of drugstore.com and 1 cent per diluted share in Duane Reade costs.   Including the after-tax gain on the sale of WHI, net earnings determined in accordance with GAAP for fiscal 2011 were $2.7 billion or $2.94 per diluted share.   In fiscal year 2010, net earnings were $2.1 billion or $2.12 per diluted share, which included 7 cents per diluted share in costs associated with Rewiring for Growth, 6 cents per diluted share in Duane Reade costs and 4 cents per diluted share for the Medicare Part D tax subsidy repeal.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Pharmacy Sales
 
Prescription sales, which accounted for 65.4 percent of sales in the quarter, climbed 5.7 percent, while prescription sales in comparable stores increased 4.4 percent. The company filled 202 million prescriptions, an increase of 4.0 percent over last years fourth quarter. Prescriptions filled in comparable stores increased 3.4 percent in the quarter. The company exceeded by 2.3 percentage points the prescription growth rate of the rest of the industry during the same period as reported by IMS Health.
 
In fiscal 2011, Walgreens increased its retail prescription market share to 20 percent, filling a record 819 million prescriptions, an increase of 5.3 percent.
Gross Profit Margins
 
Gross profit margins decreased 0.2 percentage point versus the year-ago quarter to 28.2 as a percentage to sales. Lower front-end margins negatively impacted overall margins in the quarter, while retail pharmacy margins were flat. Total gross profit dollars increased $277 million, or 5.8 percent, in the quarter.
SG&A
 
Selling, general and administrative expenses in the fourth quarter grew $191 million, or 4.8 percent, over the year-ago period. New store openings represented 2.0 percentage points of the
SG&A growth over the year-ago period. Acquisition-related costs and operating SG&A relating to drugstore.com accounted for 1.0 percentage point of the increase. All other expenses, including comparable store (which now include Duane Reade locations) and headquarter expenses, account for the remaining 1.8 percentage point increase over the prior year.
 
(more)
 
- 4 -
 
In the fourth quarter, the company opened or acquired 59 new drugstores compared with 65 in the year-ago quarter. In fiscal 2011, Walgreens added a net gain of 199 new drugstores including 32 acquisitions, on target with its plan to slow organic store growth to between 2.5 and 3.0 percent during the year.
Fiscal Year 2011 Core Strategies and Milestones
 
Walgreens achieved several key milestones in fiscal 2011 in executing its plan to win strategy to enhance  and advance  its pharmacy, health and daily living business:
 
 
(more)
 
- 5 -
 
With the substantial progress weve made in our transformation this year  expanding our pharmacy, health and wellness scope of services, establishing new partnerships with payers, our commitment to food oases, and providing convenient, multichannel access and best in class customer service  Walgreens is better positioned than ever to become Americas first choice for health and daily living, Wasson said.  We are confident that fiscal 2012 will be another great year of progress in our ongoing transformation and commitment to serving consumers and patients where they live and work.
Express Scripts Update
 
On June 21, 2011, Walgreens said that contract renewal negotiations with pharmacy benefit manager Express Scripts, Inc., had been unsuccessful, and as a result the company was planning not to be part of the Express Scripts pharmacy provider network as of Jan. 1, 2012.  Since then, there has been no substantive progress in the contract renewal negotiations with Express Scripts. As part of the companys strategy and plan to move forward without Express
Scripts after Dec. 31, 2011, Walgreens is working with a number of partners to explore all options so that their employees and members can continue to have access to Walgreens convenient, cost-effective pharmacy, health and wellness services.
 
(more)
 
- 6 -
As of Aug. 31, 2011, Walgreens operated 8,210 locations in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Guam. The company has 7,761 drugstores nationally, including 137 hospital on-site pharmacies. Walgreens also operates worksite health and wellness centers, home care facilities and specialty and mail service pharmacies. Its Take Care Health Systems subsidiary manages more than 700 in-store convenient care clinics and worksite health and wellness centers.
 
Walgreens will hold a one-hour conference call to discuss the fourth quarter and fiscal year results beginning at 8:30 a.m. eastern time today, Sept. 27. The conference call will be simulcast through Walgreens investor relations website at: . A replay of the conference call will be archived on the website for 12 months after the call. A podcast also will be available on the investor relations website.
http://investor.w
a
lgreens.com
 
The replay also will be available from 11:30 a.m. Eastern time, Sept. 27, through Oct. 4, by calling 888-203-1112 within the U.S. and Canada, or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S. and Canada, using replay code 9704740.
 
Statements in this release that are not historical are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Words such as expect, outlook, would, could, should, project, intend, plan, continue, believe, seek, estimate, anticipate, may, assume, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.  These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, assumptions and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, changes in economic and market conditions, competition, risks associated with new business areas and activities, changes in vendor, payer and customer relationships, the availability and cost of real estate and construction, risks associated with acquisitions, the ability to realize anticipated results from capital expenditures and cost reduction initiatives, outcomes of legal and regulatory matters, and changes in legislation or regulations.  These and other risks, assumptions and uncertainties are described in Item 1A (Risk Factors) of our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K which is incorporated herein by reference and in other documents that we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission.   Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated or anticipated by such forward-looking statements.  Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made.  Except to the extent required by law, Walgreens does not undertake, and expressly disclaims, any duty or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement after the distribution of this release, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise.
 
(more)
 
- 7 -
 
 
 
(more)
 
- 8 -
 
 
(more)
 
- 9 -
 
 
(more)
 
- 10 -
 
 
       The following information provides reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures, as defined under SEC rules, presented in this press release to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The company has provided these non-GAAP financial measures in the press release, which are not calculated or presented in accordance with GAAP, as supplemental information and in addition to the financial measures that are calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures are presented because management has evaluated the companys financial results both including and excluding the $434 million gain ($273 million after-tax) on the sale of its Walgreens Health Initiatives (WHI) pharmacy benefits management business and believes that the non-GAAP financial measures presented provide additional perspective relating to trends in the companys historical operating results.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered superior to or as a substitute for, and should be considered in conjunction with, the GAAP financial measures presented in the press release.
 
 
 
*  Percentage change in adjusted net earnings and adjusted net earnings per diluted share represents, in each case, change from fiscal 2010 GAAP measure to fiscal 2011 adjusted measure.
#    #    #    #    #
 


