FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20120117100408.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. .
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(e) At the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Walgreen Co. (the "Company") held on January 11, 2012, shareholders approved the Walgreen Co. 2011 Cash-Based Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). The Company's Board of Directors approved the Plan on July 13, 2011, subject to shareholder approval. The Plan is intended to optimize the Company's tax deduction for performance-based cash incentive payments. Under Internal Revenue Code rules, compensation payable to certain senior executives in excess of $1 million is not deductible by the Company unless the compensation satisfies certain requirements set forth in IRS regulations. The Plan is intended to comply with those IRS requirements and allow performance-based cash incentive plan payments by the Company pursuant to the Plan to qualify for the exemption. A more detailed description of the Plan was set forth in the Company's Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 18, 2011 under the heading "Proposal 3  Approval of the Walgreen Co. 2011 Cash-Based Incentive Plan" and is incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description of the Plan is not intended to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Plan, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
. .
Item 5.07
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
(a) The Company held its Annual Meeting of Shareholders on January 11, 2012.
(b) Set forth below are the voting results for each of the proposals submitted to a vote of the Company's shareholders at the Annual Meeting:
The shareholders voted for election of the following directors to serve on the Board of Directors until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders or until their successors are elected and qualified:
Proposal No. 1:
 
There were 149,599,434 broker non-votes on this proposal.
The proposal to ratify the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm was approved by a vote of 696,322,761 for, 19,811,029 against and 2,289,760 abstentions.
Proposal No. 2:
The proposal to approve the Walgreen Co. 2011 Cash-Based Incentive Plan was approved by a vote of 534,176,534 for, 30,000,010 against and 4,647,572 abstentions. There were 149,599,434 broker non-votes on this proposal.
Proposal No. 3:
The proposal to approve, on an advisory basis, the compensation of the Company's named executive officers was approved by a vote of 531,388,535 for, 30,486,692 against and 6,948,889 abstentions. There were 149,599,434 broker non-votes on this proposal.
Proposal No. 4:
The proposal for shareholders to vote, on an advisory basis, on the frequency of future advisory votes on named executive officer compensation received the following votes: 1 year: 504,685,696; 2 years, 4,051,844; 3 years, 56,305,572; and 3,781,004 abstentions. There were 149,599,434 broker non-votes on this proposal.
Proposal No. 5:
The shareholder proposal regarding an executive equity retention policy was not approved. There were 202,526,968 votes for, 359,631,324 votes against, and 6,665,824 abstentions. There were 149,599,434 broker non-votes on this proposal.
Proposal No. 6:
(d) Following the shareholder vote on Proposal No. 5 described in Item 5.07(b) above, the Board of Directors determined that shareholder advisory votes regarding the compensation of the Company's named executive officers ("say-on-pay" votes) will be held each year at the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders until the next advisory vote of shareholders is held regarding the frequency of shareholder say-on-pay votes.
. .
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
Contents
 
 
Article 1. Establishment, Purpose, and Duration
. Walgreen Co., an Illinois corporation (hereinafter referred to as the "Company"), hereby establishes an incentive compensation plan to be known as Walgreen Co. 2011 Cash-Based Incentive Plan (hereinafter referred to as the "Plan"), as set forth in this document. This Plan permits the grant of Cash-Based Awards. This Plan shall become effective upon shareholder approval (the "Effective Date") and shall remain in effect as provided in Section 1.3 hereof.
1.1 Establishment
. The objectives of this Plan are to optimize the profitability and growth of the Company through incentives consistent with the Company's goals and that link and align the personal interests of Participants with an incentive for excellence in individual performance, and to promote teamwork. This Plan is further intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of Participants who make significant contributions to the Company's success and to allow Participants to share in the success of the Company.
1.2 Objectives of This Plan
. This Plan shall commence on the Effective Date, as described in Section 1.1, and shall remain in effect until terminated, modified, or amended in accordance with Section 11.1 of the Plan.
1.3 Duration of This Plan
Article 2. Definitions
Whenever used in this Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word shall be capitalized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 3. Administration
. The Committee shall be responsible for administering this Plan, subject to this Article 3 and the other provisions of this Plan. The Committee may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants, agents, and other individuals, any of whom may be an Employee, and the Committee, the Company, and its officers and Directors shall be entitled to rely upon the advice, opinions, or valuations of any such individuals. All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee shall be final and binding upon the Participants, the Company, and all other interested individuals.
3.1 General
. Subject to any express limitations set forth in the Plan, the Committee shall have full and exclusive discretionary power and authority to take such actions as it deems necessary and advisable with respect to the administration of the Plan including, but not limited to, the following:
3.2 Authority of the Committee
 
 
 
 
 
 
. The Committee may delegate to one or more of its members or to one or more officers of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate or to one or more agents or advisors such administrative duties or powers as it may deem advisable, and the Committee or any individuals to whom it has delegated duties or powers as aforesaid may employ one or more individuals to render advice with respect to any responsibility the Committee or such individuals may have under this Plan. The Committee may, by resolution, authorize one or more officers of the Company to do one or both of the following on the same basis as can the Committee: (a) designate Employees to be recipients of Awards; (b) determine the size of any such Awards; provided, however, (i) the Committee shall not delegate such responsibilities to any such officer for Awards to be granted to such officer; (ii) the resolution providing such authorization sets forth the total number of Awards such officer(s) may grant; and (iii) the officer(s) shall report periodically to the Committee regarding the nature and scope of the Awards granted pursuant to the authority delegated.
3.3 Delegation
. All determinations and decisions made by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of this Plan and all related orders and resolutions of the Board shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all persons, including the Company, its stockholders, Employees, Participants, and their estates and beneficiaries.
3.4 Decisions Binding
Article 4. Eligibility and Participation
. Persons eligible to participate in this Plan include all officers and key Employees of the Company, or those who will become officers or key Employees, whose performance or contribution, as determined by the Committee, benefits or will benefit the Company.
4.1 Eligibility
. Subject to the provisions of this Plan, the Committee may, from time to time, select from all eligible individuals, those individuals to whom Awards shall be granted and shall determine, in its sole discretion, the nature of any and all terms permissible by law and the amount of each Award.
4.2 Actual Participation
Article 5. Awards
. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Cash-Based Awards to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee may determine. The Committee may grant Cash-Based Awards that are payable based on the attainment of a specified performance goal (or goals), with or without additional Service requirements, as established by the Committee in its discretion.
5.1 Grant of Cash-Based Awards
. Each Cash-Based Award shall specify a payment amount or payment range as determined by the Committee. The Committee may establish a performance goal or goals in its discretion. If the Committee exercises its discretion to establish performance goals, the number and/or value of such Cash-Based Award (the "Performance-Based Compensation Award") that will be paid out to the Participant will depend on the extent to which the performance goals are met and additional Service requirements, if any, are met.
5.2 Value of Cash-Based Awards
 
. The maximum aggregate amount awarded or credited under this Plan with respect to Cash-Based Awards to any one Participant in any one Plan Year may not exceed ten million dollars ($10,000,000), determined as of the date of payout.
5.3 Maximum Cash-Based Awards
. Payment, if any, with respect to a Cash-Based Award shall be made in cash, in accordance with the terms of the applicable Award Agreement, and as the Committee determines in accordance with Code Section 409A, to the extent applicable.
5.4 Payment of Cash-Based Awards
. The Committee shall determine the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive payment for Cash-Based Awards, if any, following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services to the Company or any Affiliate or Subsidiary, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, such provisions may be included in an agreement entered into with each Participant, but need not be uniform among all Awards of Cash-Based Awards issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
5.5 Termination of Employment
. To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Plan and all Awards hereunder comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, and the Plan and all Award Agreements shall be interpreted and applied by the Committee in a manner consistent with this intent in order to avoid the imposition of any additional tax under Section 409A of the Code. In the event that any provision of the Plan or an Award Agreement is determined by the Committee to not comply with the applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Code, the Committee shall have the authority, pursuant to Section 14.8, to take such actions and to make such interpretations or changes to the Plan or an Award Agreement as the Committee deems necessary to comply with such requirements, provided that the Committee shall act in a manner that is intended to preserve the economic value of the Award to the Participant. In no event whatsoever shall the Company be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalties that may be imposed on any Participant by Section 409A of the Code or any damages for failing to comply with Section 409A of the Code.
5.6 Compliance With Section 409A
. The Plan shall be interpreted and construed in accordance with Section 162(m) of the Code. A Participant shall be eligible to receive payment with respect to a Performance-Based Compensation Award only to the extent that the performance goals for such Performance Period are achieved and the terms of the Award applied against such performance goals determines that all or a portion of such Participant's Performance-Based Compensation Award has been earned for the Performance Period. Following the completion of a Performance Period, the Committee shall review and certify in writing whether, and to what extent, the Performance-Based Compensation Award for the Performance Period was achieved and then the amount thereof.
5.7 Compliance With Section 162(m)
Article 6. Awards Not Assignable or Transferable
Except as expressly authorized by the Committee, during a Participant's lifetime, his Awards shall be payable only to the Participant. Awards shall not be assignable or transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or, subject to the consent of the Committee, pursuant to a domestic relations order entered into by a court of competent jurisdiction; no Awards shall be subject, in whole or in part, to attachment, execution, or levy of any kind; and any purported assignment or transfer in violation of this Article 6 shall be null and void. The Committee may establish such procedures as it deems appropriate for a Participant to designate a beneficiary to whom any amounts payable in the event of, or following, the Participant's death may be provided.
 
Article 7. Performance Measures
. The performance goals upon which the payment of a Performance-Based Compensation Award to a Covered Employee that is intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation shall be limited to the following Performance Measures:
7.1 Performance Measures
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any Performance Measure(s) may be used to measure the performance of the Company, Subsidiary, and/or Affiliate as a whole or any business unit of the Company, Subsidiary, and/or Affiliate, or any combination thereof, as the Committee may deem appropriate, or any of the above Performance Measures as compared to the performance of a group of comparator companies, or published or special index that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate, or the Company may select Performance Measure (k) above as compared to various stock market indices. The Committee also has the authority to provide for accelerated payment of any Award based on the achievement of performance goals pursuant to the Performance Measures specified in this Article 7; provided, however, that any restrictions on acceleration of payment under Code Section 409A shall be observed.
. The Committee may provide in any such Award that any evaluation of performance may include or exclude any of the following events that occurs during a Performance Period: (a) asset write-downs, (b) litigation or claim judgments or settlements, (c) the effect of changes in tax laws, accounting principles, or other laws or provisions affecting reported results, (d) any reorganization and restructuring programs, (e) Extraordinary Items, (f) acquisitions or divestitures, and (g) foreign exchange gains and losses. To the extent such inclusions or exclusions affect Performance-Based Compensation Awards to Covered Employees, they shall be prescribed in a form that meets the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for deductibility.
7.2 Evaluation of Performance
. Awards that are intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation may not be adjusted upward. The Committee shall retain the discretion to adjust such Awards downward, either on a formula or discretionary basis or any combination, as the Committee determines.
7.3 Adjustment of Performance-Based Compensation
. In the event that applicable tax, corporate, or securities laws change to permit the Committee discretion to alter the governing Performance Measures without obtaining shareholder approval of such changes, the Committee shall have sole discretion to make such changes without obtaining shareholder approval. In addition, in the event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to grant Awards that shall not qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee may make such grants without satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m) and base payout on Performance Measures other than those set forth in Section 7.1.
7.4 Committee Discretion
Article 8. Beneficiary Designation
Each Participant under this Plan may, from time to time, name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any benefit under this Plan is to be paid in case of his death before he receives any or all of such benefit. Each such designation shall revoke all prior designations by the same Participant under this Plan, shall be in a form prescribed by the Committee, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing with the Company during the Participant's lifetime. In the absence of any such beneficiary designation, benefits remaining unpaid or rights remaining unexercised at the Participant's death shall be paid to or exercised by the Participant's executor, administrator, or legal representative.
Article 9. Rights of Participants
. Nothing in this Plan or an Award Agreement shall: (a) interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries to terminate any Participant's employment or Service at any time or for any reason not prohibited by law, or (b) confer upon any Participant any right to continue his employment for any specified period of time. Neither an Award nor any benefits arising under this Plan shall constitute an employment contract with the Company or any Affiliate or Subsidiary and, accordingly, subject to Articles 3 and 11, this Plan and the benefits hereunder may be terminated at any time in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Committee without giving rise to any liability on the part of the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries.
9.1 Employment
 
. No individual shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under this Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.
9.2 Participation
Article 10. Change of Control
. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, the provisions of this Article 10 shall apply in the event of a Change of Control, unless otherwise determined by the Committee in connection with the grant of an Award as reflected in the applicable Award Agreement.
10.1 Change of Control of the Company
 
 
Article 11. Amendment and Termination
.
11.1 Amendment and Termination of the Plan and Award Agreements
 
 
. Subject to Section 7.3, the Committee may make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, the events described in Section 7.2 hereof) affecting the Company or the financial statements of the Company or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent unintended diminution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under this Plan. The determination of the Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding on Participants under this Plan. By accepting an Award under this Plan, a Participant agrees to any adjustment to the Award made pursuant to this Section 11.2 without further consideration or action.
11.2 Adjustment of Awards Upon the Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events
. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, other than Sections 11.2, 11.4, or 14.14, no termination or amendment of this Plan or an Award Agreement shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously granted under this Plan, without the written consent of the Participant holding such Award.
11.3 Awards Previously Granted
. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, the Committee may amend the Plan or an Award Agreement, to take effect retroactively or otherwise, as deemed necessary or advisable for the purpose of conforming the Plan or an Award Agreement to any present
11.4 Amendment to Conform to Law
 
or future law relating to plans of this or similar nature, and to the administrative regulations and rulings promulgated thereunder. By accepting an Award under this Plan, a Participant agrees to any amendment made pursuant to this Section 11.4 to any Award granted under the Plan without further consideration or action.
Article 12. Reporting and Withholding
The Company shall have the power and the right to report income and to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, the minimum statutory amount to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes, domestic or foreign, required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of this Plan.
Article 13. Successors
All obligations of the Company under this Plan with respect to Awards granted hereunder shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
Article 14. General Provisions
.
14.1 Forfeiture Events
 
 
 
. Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine, the plural shall include the singular, and the singular shall include the plural.
14.2 Gender and Number
. In the event any provision of this Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of this Plan, and this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
14.3 Severability
. The granting of and settlement of Awards under this Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.
14.4 Requirements of Law
. Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, in order to comply with the laws in other countries in which the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries operate or have Employees and/or Directors, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the power and authority to:
14.5 Employees Based Outside of the United States
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the above, the Committee may not take any actions hereunder, and no Awards shall be granted, that would violate applicable law.
. Participants shall have no right, title, or interest whatsoever in or to any investments that the Company, its Subsidiaries, or its Affiliates may make to aid it in meeting its obligations under this Plan. Nothing contained in this Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Participant, beneficiary, legal representative, or any other individual. To the extent that any individual acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate or Subsidiary under this Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company or the Subsidiary or Affiliate, as the case may be. All payments to be made hereunder shall be paid from the general funds of the Company, or the Subsidiary or Affiliate, as the case may be and no special or separate fund shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts except as expressly set forth in this Plan.
14.6 Unfunded Plan
. Neither Awards made under this Plan nor cash paid pursuant to such Awards may be included as "compensation" for purposes of computing the benefits payable to any
14.7 Retirement and Welfare Plans
 
Participant under the Company's or any Subsidiary's or Affiliate's retirement plans (both qualified and nonqualified) or welfare benefit plans unless such other plan expressly provides that such compensation shall be taken into account in computing a Participant's benefit.
.
14.8 Deferred Compensation
 
 
. The adoption of this Plan shall not be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board or Committee to adopt such other compensation arrangements as it may deem desirable for any Participant.
14.9 Nonexclusivity of this Plan
. Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to: (a) limit, impair, or otherwise affect the Company's or a Subsidiary's or an Affiliate's right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations, or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets; or (b) limit the right or power of the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate.
14.10 No Constraint on Corporate Action
.The Committee is authorized to cause to be established a trust agreement or several trust agreements or similar arrangements from which the Committee may make payments of amounts due or to become due to any Participants under the Plan.
14.11 Payments to a Trust
. The Plan and each Award Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the state of Illinois, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of this Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction. Unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement, recipients of an Award under this Plan are deemed to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of Illinois to resolve any and all issues that may arise out of or relate to this Plan or any related Award Agreement.
14.12 Governing Law
. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Company may: (a) deliver by email or other electronic means (including posting on a Web site maintained by the Company or by a third party under contract with the Company) all documents relating to the Plan or any Award thereunder and all other documents that the Company is required to deliver to its security holders (including without limitation, annual reports and proxy statements), and (b) permit Participants to electronically execute applicable Plan documents (including, but not limited to, Award Agreements) in a manner prescribed to the Committee.
14.13 Delivery and Execution of Electronic Documents
. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, the Company, its Affiliates and Subsidiaries, the Board, and the Committee neither
14.14 No Representations or Warranties Regarding Tax Effect
 
represent nor warrant the tax treatment under any federal, state, local, or foreign laws and regulations thereunder (individually and collectively referred to as the "Tax Laws") of any Award granted or any amounts paid to any Participant under the Plan including, but not limited to, when and to what extent such Awards or amounts may be subject to tax, penalties, and interest under the Tax Laws.
. Subject to requirements of Illinois law, each individual who is or shall have been a member of the Board, or a Committee appointed by the Board, or an officer of the Company to whom authority was delegated in accordance with Article 3, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under this Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his/her own behalf, unless such loss, cost, liability, or expense is a result of his/her own willful misconduct or except as expressly provided by statute. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such individuals may be entitled under the Company's Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
14.15 Indemnification
 


