FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20120910085523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 6, 2012, Walgreen Co. (the "Company") filed a Current Report on Form 8-K (the "Initial Form 8-K") with the Securities and Exchange Commission reporting that on August 2, 2012, the Company closed the initial investment contemplated by the Purchase and Option Agreement dated June 18, 2012 by and among Walgreen Co., Alliance Boots GmbH ("Alliance Boots"), a private limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Switzerland and AB Acquisitions Holdings Limited, a private limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Gibraltar jointly controlled by Stefano Pessina and funds advised by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. and certain of their respective affiliates (the "Purchase and Option Agreement"), which resulted in the acquisition by the Company of 45% of the issued and outstanding share capital of Alliance Boots in exchange for $4.025 billion in cash and approximately 83.4 million shares of Company common stock (such acquisition, the "First Step Transaction"). The description of the First Step Transaction and other transactions consummated pursuant to the Purchaser and Option Agreement contained herein does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Purchase and Option Agreement which was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 19, 2012, and incorporated herein by reference.
This Current Report on Form 8-K/A is being filed to amend and supplement the Initial Form 8-K to provide the financial statements described in Item 9.01 below which were not previously filed with the Initial Form 8-K, and which are permitted to be filed by amendment no later than 71 calendar days after the date the Initial 8-K was required to be filed with the SEC.
 
 
Alliance Boots' audited consolidated financial statements for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 are attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K/A and incorporated herein by reference. Such financial statements of Alliance Boots were prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Walgreens transaction with Alliance Boots does not include the benefit of Alliance Boots minority interest in Galenica Ltd., a Swiss healthcare group, so Walgreens shareholders will not benefit from the financial performance of Galenica Ltd. even though Alliance Boots proportionate interest in their profits is reflected in Alliance Boots financial statements.
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information related to the First Step Transaction is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K/A and incorporated herein by reference. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information includes adjustments to reconcile the historical financial statements of Alliance Boots to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and to convert pounds Sterling amounts into U.S. dollars.
 
 
23.1 Consent of KPMG Audit Plc
99.1 Alliance Boots GmbH audited consolidated financial statements for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010
99.2 Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information
Statements in this report that are not historical are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expect," "likely," "outlook," "forecast," "would," "could," "should," "can," "will," "project," "intend," "plan," "goal," "continue," "sustain," "synergy," "on track," "believe," "seek," "estimate," "anticipate," "may," "possible," "assume," variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to vary materially from those indicated, including: risks that the transactions contemplated by the Purchase and Option Agreement, or the Company Shareholders Agreement or the AB Shareholders Agreement entered into in connection with the First Step Transaction, disrupt plans and operations of either Walgreens or Alliance Boots, our ability to realize anticipated synergies, our ability to achieve anticipated financial results, the amount of costs, fees, expenses and charges incurred by Walgreens and Alliance Boots related to the transaction, the risks associated with international business operations, the risks associated with governance and control matters, whether the option to acquire the remainder of the Alliance Boots equity interest will be exercised and the financial ramifications thereof, our ability to timely arrange for and consummate permanent financing to replace the bridge facility on acceptable terms, changes in vendor, payer and customer relationships and terms, changes in network participation, and other factors described in Item 1A (Risk Factors) of our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as amended, each of which is incorporated herein by reference and in other documents that we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated or anticipated by such forward-looking statements. Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent required by law, Walgreens does not undertake, and expressly disclaims, any duty or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement after the date of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 23.1
Consent of Independent Auditors
To the Board of Alliance Boots GmbH:
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements on Form S-3 (No. 333-175649) and Form S-8 (No.s 2-79977, 2-79978, 33-49676, 333-19467, 333-19501, 333-106967, 333-107841, 333-112343, 333-132272, 333-164382, 333-167836, 333-174810, 333-174811 and 333-175642) of Walgreen Co. of our report dated September 10, 2012, with respect to the Group statements of financial position of Alliance Boots GmbH as of March 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related Group statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended March 31, 2012, which report appears in the Form 8-K/A of Walgreen Co. dated August 2, 2012 and filed on September 10, 2012.
/s/ KPMG Audit Plc
London, United Kingdom
September 10, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
Contents
 
Independent auditor's report
To the Board of Alliance Boots GmbH:
We have audited the accompanying Group statements of financial position of Alliance Boots GmbH and subsidiaries ("the Group") as of 31 March 2012 and 2011, and the related Group income statements, Group statements of comprehensive income, Group statements of changes in equity, and Group statements of cash flows for the three years ended 31 March 2012. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Group as of 31 March 2012 and 2011, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended 31 March 2012 in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
KPMG Audit Plc
London
United Kingdom
10 September 2012
 
1
Group income statement
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
2
Group statement of financial position
as at 31 March 2012 and 2011
 
 
3
Group statement of changes in equity
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
Owners comprise equity shareholders of the Company and non controlling interests.
 
4
Group statement of changes in equity (continued)
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
Owners comprise equity shareholders of the Company and non controlling interests.
 
5
Group statement of cash flows
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
6
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
Alliance Boots GmbH is a private company incorporated in Switzerland. The address of its registered office is Alliance Boots GmbH, Baarerstrasse 94, CH-6300 Zug, Switzerland. The principal activities of the Group are pharmacy-led health and beauty retailing and pharmaceutical wholesaling and distribution in many major international markets.
These non-statutory consolidated financial statements have been prepared for the purposes of the SEC filing requirements of Walgreen Co., and were approved for issuance on 10 September 2012.
 
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are set out below:
Basis of accounting
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Sterling reflecting the denomination of the currency of the most significant proportion of the trade and cash flows of Alliance Boots GmbH (the "Company") and its subsidiaries and their interests in associates and joint ventures (together referred to as "the Group") and have been rounded to the nearest 1 million. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board ("IFRSs"), as they apply to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012. Had the consolidated financial statements been prepared under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, there would be no material changes to the information presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared principally on the historical cost basis. Other applicable measurement bases applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are identified in the accounting policies below.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement, or areas where assumptions or estimates were significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 38.
Comparative income statements have been presented as if operations discontinued in the current year and prior year had been discontinued from the start of the earliest period presented.
Going concern
The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable future, and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the consolidated financial statements.
New, amended and revised IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee pronouncements ("IFRICs")
There were no amendments or revisions to IFRSs effective for the first time in the year ended 31 March 2012 which had an impact on the consolidated financial statements:
The following amendments and revisions to IFRSs, IFRICs and amendments to IFRICs which were effective for the first time in the year ended 31 March 2012 did not have any material impact on the consolidated financial statements:
 
The following amendments and revisions to IFRSs effective for the first time in the year ended 31 March 2011 and had an impact on the consolidated financial statements:
 
From 1 April 2010, the Group applied IFRS 3 Business Combinations (2008) and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (2008) in accounting for business combinations and acquisitions of non controlling interests. The accounting policies for consolidation and business combinations and goodwill have been updated accordingly. The change in accounting policies was applied prospectively and had no material impact on profit.
Other amendments and revisions to IFRSs, IFRICs and amendments to IFRICs were effective for the first time in the year ended 31 March 2011 and did not have any material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
 
7
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
The following IFRSs and IFRICs, and amendments and revisions to IFRSs and IFRICs were available for early adoption, but have not yet been applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements:
 
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these new IFRSs and IFRICs, and amendments and revisions to IFRSs and IFRICs will have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements in the period of initial application with the exception of IFRS 9, where classification and measurement amendments will be required to financial assets currently classified as available-for-sale.
Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements for all years presented comprise the Company and its subsidiaries and their interests in associates and joint ventures.
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from their activities. The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Group income statement from or to the date that control commences or ceases, as appropriate.
Non controlling interests
Transactions with non controlling interests are treated as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners. When an equity interest is purchased from a non controlling interest, an amount proportionate to the interest purchased is transferred from equity attributable to non controlling interests to equity attributable to shareholders.
Prior to 1 April 2010, transactions with non controlling interests were treated as transactions with parties that were external to the Group, and when an equity interest was purchased from a non controlling interest, the difference between the consideration paid and the relevant share of the carrying value of the net assets acquired was recognised as goodwill and the underlying non controlling interest derecognised.
Associates and joint ventures
An associate is an entity over which the Group, either directly or indirectly, is in a position to exercise significant influence by participating in, but without control, or joint control, of the financial and operating policies of the entity. A joint venture is an entity over which the Group, either directly or indirectly, is in a position to jointly control the financial and operating policies of the entity. Associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. Unrealised profits and losses recognised by the Group on transactions with associates or joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group's interest in the associate or joint venture concerned. Financial statements of some associates and joint ventures are prepared for different reporting years from that of the Group. Adjustments are made for the effects of transactions and events that occur between the reporting date of an associate or joint venture and the reporting date of the consolidated financial statements.
All intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Currency
Currency transactions
Transactions denominated in currencies other than an entity's functional currency are translated into an entity's functional currency at the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than an entity's functional currency at the year end are translated at the exchange rate ruling at that date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost and are denominated in currencies other than an entity's functional currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value and are denominated in currencies other than an entity's functional currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined. Exchange gains and losses are recognised in the income statement.
Non-Sterling denominated entities
The assets and liabilities of non-Sterling denominated entities, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into Sterling at exchange rates ruling at the year end. The results and cash flows of non-Sterling denominated entities are translated into Sterling at the average exchange rate for the year, which approximates to the underlying actual rates.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the results and net assets of non-Sterling denominated entities are recognised in the translation reserve.
When a non-Sterling denominated entity is sold, the related balance in the translation reserve is recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
 
8
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Segmental reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-makers. The chief operating decision-makers, who are responsible for making resource allocation decisions in the attainment of strategic objectives and assessing the performance of the operating segments, have been identified as the executive Directors.
The Group has two reportable segments, being the Health & Beauty Division and the Pharmaceutical Wholesale Division. The main activity of the Health & Beauty Division is pharmacy-led health and beauty retailing, and the main activity of the Pharmaceutical Wholesale Division is pharmaceutical wholesaling and distribution.
Revenue
Revenue shown on the face of the income statement is the amount derived from the sale of goods and services outside of the Group in the normal course of business and is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable net of trade discounts, value added tax and other sales-related taxes. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership and control of the goods sold and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably. Revenue from services is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
The accounting policies for the major revenue categories by operating segment are:
Health & Beauty Division
Reimbursement of dispensing revenue and revenue derived from optical services is initially estimated because the actual reimbursement is often not known until after the month of sale.
Consideration received from retail and optical sales is recorded as revenue at the point of sale less appropriate adjustments for returns.
In respect of loyalty schemes (principally the Boots Advantage Card) as points are issued to customers the retail fair value of those points expected to be redeemed is deferred. When the points are used by customers they are recorded as revenue. Sales of gift vouchers are only included in revenue when vouchers are redeemed.
Pharmaceutical Wholesale Division
Wholesale revenue is recognised upon despatch of goods.
When the Group acts in the capacity of an agent, or a logistics service provider, revenue is the service fees and is recognised upon performance of the services concerned.
Other segments
Revenue is recognised upon despatch of goods.
Supplier rebates
Certain suppliers offer rebates when purchases made in a period meet or exceed a predetermined level. Rebates are only recognised when there is clear evidence of this type of binding arrangement with the supplier and the rebate receipt is both probable and can be reasonably estimated. The rebate is recognised as a reduction in the purchase price.
Exceptional items
Certain items are not regarded as forming part of the underlying trading activities of the Group and are therefore separately identified to allow users to understand the elements of and the trends in financial performance.
Finance income
Finance income comprises interest receivable on funds invested calculated using the effective interest rate method, net exchange gains relating to financing items, expected returns on defined benefit scheme assets, net fair value gains on derivative financial instruments used to hedge certain risks attributable to hedged items that are financing in nature, gains on derecognition of available-for-sale investments, fair value movements on cash flow hedge financing derivatives recycled from the cash flow hedge reserve, dividends received from investments and discounts on the repurchase of bank loans provided to the Group, which are accounted for as loan redemptions. Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Finance costs
Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, financing fees, net exchange losses relating to financing, interest on defined benefit scheme liabilities, the interest expense component of finance lease payments, net fair value losses on derivative financial instruments used to hedge certain risks attributable to hedged items that are financing in nature, fair value movements on cash flow hedge financing derivatives recycled from the cash flow hedge reserve, impairment of loan assets, impairment of available-for-sale investments and reassessment of obligations to and unwind of discount on non controlling interests.
Current/non-current classification
Current assets include assets held primarily for trading purposes, cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and assets expected to be realised in, or intended for sale or consumption in, the course of the Group's operating cycle. All other assets are classified as non-current assets.
Current liabilities include liabilities held primarily for trading purposes, liabilities expected to be settled in the course of the Group's operating cycle and those liabilities due within one year from the reporting date. All other liabilities are classified as non-current liabilities.
 
9
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Business combinations and goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for under IFRS 3 using the acquisition method of accounting. The cost of acquisition is the consideration given in exchange for the identifiable net assets. This consideration includes any cash paid plus the fair value at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group. Where a share-for-share exchange transaction is accounted for as a business combination, the cost of acquisition is the fair value of the equity transferred. Contingent consideration is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. If contingent consideration comprises equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of contingent consideration are recognised in the income statement.
The acquired net assets are initially recognised at fair value which is deemed cost in the consolidated financial statements. Where the Group does not acquire 100% ownership of the acquired company, non controlling interests are recorded either at fair value or at their proportion of the fair value of the acquired net assets. Prior to 1 April 2010, non controlling interests were recorded at their proportion of the fair value of the acquired net assets.
For acquisitions after 1 April 2010, goodwill comprises the fair value of the consideration plus the recognised amount of any non controlling interests in the acquiree, plus, if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree, less the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. Any difference between the carrying value and fair value of pre-existing equity interest in the acquiree is recognised in the income statement. For acquisitions prior to 1 April 2010, goodwill comprises the excess of the fair value of the consideration plus directly attributable costs over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. Any goodwill and fair value adjustments are recorded as assets and liabilities of the acquired business and are recorded in the local currency of that business. Where the fair value of the identifiable net assets exceeds the fair value of the consideration, the excess is recognised as negative goodwill and recognised in the income statement immediately.
The costs of integrating and reorganising acquired businesses are charged to the post-acquisition income statement. Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. No amortisation is charged.
Increases in the ownership interests in subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amounts of interests of equity shareholders and non controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any differences between amounts by which non controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid are recognised directly in equity and attributed to equity shareholders of the company.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets are stated at cost or deemed cost less any impairment and accumulated amortisation. The principal categories of intangible assets are:
Pharmacy licences
Pharmacy licences, being the exclusive right to operate as a pharmacy, are capitalised where there is an asset that can be separated from other identifiable assets that together form a pharmacy business.
Brands
Brands consist of corporate and product brands acquired as part of business combinations that meet the criteria for separate recognition. Costs in relation to internally generated brands are not capitalised.
Customer relationships
Customer relationships consist of relationships with customers established through contracts, or non-contractual customer relationships that meet the criteria for separate recognition, that have been acquired in a business combination.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets comprise product licences which give the right to sell certain products in specific countries and clinical data used to review therapy effectiveness which are recognised separately as intangible assets when they are acquired.
Software
Software that is not integral to an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset. Certain direct and indirect development costs associated with internally developed software, including direct costs of materials and services, and payroll costs for employees devoting time to the software projects, are capitalised once the project has reached the application development stage. The costs are amortised from when the asset is ready for use. Costs incurred during the preliminary project stage, maintenance and training costs, and research and development costs are expensed as incurred.
Amortisation
Where an intangible asset is considered to have a finite life, amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the useful life from the date the asset is available for use. Pharmacy licences recognised as intangible assets do not expire and therefore are considered to have an indefinite life. Certain brands have been identified as having an indefinite life, based on their life and history along with current market strength and future development plans. Those assets considered to have an indefinite life are not amortised and are tested for impairment at each year end. The useful lives for those intangible assets with a finite life are:
 
Amortisation periods and methods are reviewed annually and adjusted if appropriate.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amounts. These are included in the income statement.
 
10
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Property, plant and equipment
All property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is provided to write off the cost, less residual value, in equal instalments over their expected useful economic lives which are:
 
Residual values, remaining useful economic lives and depreciation methods are reviewed annually and adjusted if appropriate.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amounts. These are included in the income statement.
Impairment of assets
The Group's assets are reviewed at each year end to determine whether events or changes in circumstances exist that indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. If such an indication exists, the asset's recoverable amount is estimated. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset's fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the asset's carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows referred to as cash generating units.
For goodwill and other intangible assets that have an indefinite life and assets not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated annually or more frequently when there is an indication that the asset is impaired.
Assets held for sale and discontinued operations
Assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through sale rather than through continuing use. The asset or disposal group must be available for immediate sale and the sale must be highly probable and be expected to complete within one year of the year end. Where applicable, assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of fair value less costs to sell and carrying amount.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale are included in the income statement. Gains reversing previous impairment losses or losses on subsequent remeasurements are also included in the income statement.
Assets classified as held for sale are disclosed separately on the face of the statement of financial position and classified as current assets or liabilities with disposal groups being separated between assets held for sale and liabilities held for sale. No amortisation or depreciation is charged on assets, including those in disposal groups, classified as held for sale.
Discontinued operations are components of the Group's business that represent separate major lines of business or geographical areas of operations. Classification as discontinued operations occurs upon the date of disposal or when operations meet the criteria for classification as held for sale, if earlier. When operations are classified as discontinued, the comparative income statement is as if the operations had been discontinued from the start of the comparative year and included in the income statement as a separate line entitled (Loss)/profit for the year from discontinued operations'.
Available-for-sale investments
The Group classifies its listed and unlisted investments as available-for-sale financial assets and measures them at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in fair values and exchange translation are recognised in equity unless they arise from significant or prolonged declines in value, in which case impairment losses are recorded in the income statement. When an investment is disposed of or derecognised, the related balance in the available-for-sale reserve is recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Trade receivables and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, less allowances for impairment where appropriate. These are reviewed for impairment on an individual or collective basis, depending on the size of the receivable and the period for which it is overdue.
Where the contractual rights to the cash flows from receivables are transferred to another party in transactions by which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the receivables are transferred, then the receivables are derecognised.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. With the exception of retail inventory in the Health & Beauty Division, cost is determined using the first in, first out (FIFO) method. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
The cost of raw materials and packaging is their purchase price. The cost of work in progress and finished goods comprises the purchase cost of goods, direct labour and those overheads related to manufacture and distribution based on normal activity levels.
Retail inventory is valued at retail prices and reduced by appropriate margins to take into account factors such as average cost, obsolescence, seasonality and damage.
 
11
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and short term deposits with maturities of three months or less from the date of acquisition. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the statement of financial position. Bank overdrafts are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Restricted cash
Restricted cash comprises cash which is restricted for specific purposes and so is not available for the use of the Group in its day to day operations.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to currency translation and interest rate risks arising from operating, financing and investing activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for at fair value with movements taken to the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value, with movements on remeasurement recognised immediately in the income statement. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
Hedges
Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in the cash flow hedge reserve.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
If the hedged forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or financial liability, the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified into profit or loss in the same period, or periods, during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects profit or loss.
For cash flow hedges, other than those covered by the preceding two policy statements, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the same period, or periods, during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities
Where a derivative financial instrument is used to hedge economically the currency translation exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
Hedge of net investment in non-Sterling denominated entities
On consolidation, the effective portion of the gain or loss on an instrument designated as a hedge of net investment in a non-Sterling denominated entity that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in the translation reserve. The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When a non-Sterling denominated entity is sold, the cumulative currency gains or losses on the hedging instrument associated with that non-Sterling entity are removed from the translation reserve and recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Trade payables
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Liabilities to non controlling interests
Commitments to acquire equity stakes from non controlling interests, including put options, are recognised as financial liabilities when they are made, with a corresponding debit recognised as a special reserve within shareholders' equity. Dividend obligations to non controlling interests are recognised as financial liabilities when the commitments are made, with a corresponding debit recognised within equity attributable to non controlling interests.
Changes to estimates of amounts payable under these commitments and obligations are recognised as exceptional items within finance costs.
 
12
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Retirement benefits
The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes under which contributions by employees and by the sponsoring companies are held in trust funds separated from the Group's finances. Where a retirement benefits arrangement is unfunded, provision is made in the statement of financial position for the obligation.
Defined benefit schemes
A defined benefit scheme is a retirement benefit scheme that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors, such as age, years of service and compensation. The Group's net obligation or asset in respect of defined benefit schemes is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior years; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the year end on AA rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Group's obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. Scheme assets are valued at bid price.
Current and past service costs are recognised in profit from operations, interest on defined benefit scheme liabilities is included in finance costs and the expected return on defined benefit scheme assets is included in finance income. Past service costs are recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the Group's obligation in respect of a scheme are recognised immediately in reserves and reported in the statement of other comprehensive income.
Curtailment gains resulting from changes to the membership composition of defined benefit schemes are recognised in the income statement and as a reduction in the present value of defined benefit scheme liabilities.
Settlement gains or losses resulting from transfers of the liabilities of defined benefit schemes are recognised in the income statement and as a reduction in the present value of defined benefit scheme liabilities.
Defined contribution schemes
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement as they fall due.
Leases
Leases for which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases, including outsourced assets held exclusively for the use of the Group. The cost of assets held under finance leases is deemed to be the present values of the minimum lease payments and is included within property, plant and equipment. Depreciation is provided in accordance with the policy for the class of asset concerned over the period of the lease. The corresponding obligations under these leases are shown as liabilities. The finance charge element of rentals is charged to the income statement through finance costs to produce, or approximate to, a constant periodic rate of charge on the remaining balance of the outstanding obligations. Lease premiums paid in advance are treated as prepayments and are amortised over the period of the lease.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. Predetermined rental increases included in the lease are recognised on a straight-line basis. Benefits received as an incentive to sign a lease, whatever form they may take, are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Lease income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Where leased properties become vacant, a provision is recognised and measured at the lower of the cost of terminating the lease and the expected net cash out flows of continuing with the lease.
 
13
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Tax
Tax on the profit or loss for the year represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Current tax
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are not ever taxable or
deductible. The Group's liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the year end, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided in full using the statement of financial position liability method. It is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on the temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. The following temporary differences are not provided for: those arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets and liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that it is not probable that they will reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the year end.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised. The carrying amounts of deferred tax assets are reviewed at each year end and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Additional income taxes that arise from receipt of dividends from the Group's subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are recognised at the same time as the payee recognises the liability to pay the related dividend except where the timing of the payment is not controlled by the Group, in which case a deferred tax liability is recognised in full against those distributable reserves.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset in the statement of financial position when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised in the statement of financial position when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and that obligation can be measured reliably. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre tax rate that reflects the risks specific to the liability.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract which evidences a residual interest in the net assets of an entity. A financial instrument is treated by the Group as equity if:
 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown as a deduction, net of applicable tax, from the proceeds. An incremental share issue cost is one which would not have arisen if shares had not been issued.
 
14
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Use of non-GAAP measures
The Directors believe that certain non-GAAP measures provide additional useful information to assist in understanding the performance of the Group. These measures, which are used for internal performance measurement, are not defined by IFRSs and therefore may not be directly comparable with other companies' adjusted measures. The key measures are:
EBITDA
Trading profit before underlying depreciation and amortisation.
IAS 39 timing differences
Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge interest rate and currency exposures. IAS 39 dictates whether changes in the fair value of these instruments can be matched in the income statement by changes in the fair value of the item being hedged. Where they cannot be matched, or do not fully match, the unmatched amount represents a timing difference that will reverse over the life of the financial instruments.
Net borrowings
Cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, derivative financial instruments and borrowings net of unamortised prepaid financing fees.
Net finance costs
Finance costs net of finance income.
Share of underlying post tax earnings of associates and joint ventures
Share of post tax earnings of associates and joint ventures before amortisation of customer relationships and brands, exceptional items, timing differences within net finance costs and related tax.
Timing differences within net finance costs
IAS 39 timing differences and the unwinding of the discount on obligations to non controlling interests.
Trading profit
Profit from operations before amortisation of customer relationships and brands, exceptional items and share of post tax earnings of associates and joint ventures.
Underlying depreciation and amortisation
Depreciation and amortisation adjusted to exclude amortisation of customer relationships and brands and depreciation and amortisation within exceptional items.
Underlying effective tax rate
Underlying tax charge as a percentage of trading profit less underlying net finance costs.
Underlying net finance costs
Net finance costs adjusted to exclude exceptional items and timing differences within net finance costs.
Underlying profit
Profit for the year before amortisation of customer relationships and brands, exceptional items, timing differences within net finance costs and related tax.
Underlying tax charge
Tax adjusted to exclude tax on amortisation of customer relationships and brands, exceptional items, timing differences within net finance costs and exceptional tax.
 
15
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
The principal exchange rates relative to Sterling used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements were:
 
 
The Group's externally reportable operating segments reflect the internal reporting structure of the Group, which is the basis on which resource allocation decisions are made by the executive Directors in the attainment of strategic objectives. Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm's length basis.
The Group comprises the following operating segments:
Health & Beauty Division
Comprises all of the pharmacy-led health and beauty retail businesses across the Group. These businesses are located in the UK, Norway, the Republic of Ireland, The Netherlands and Thailand. There was also an operation in Russia which was discontinued during the year ended 31 March 2012 and an operation in Italy which was discontinued in the year ended 31 March 2011.
Pharmaceutical Wholesale Division
Comprises all of the pharmaceutical wholesaling and distribution businesses across the Group. These businesses are located in France, Germany, the UK, Turkey, Spain, The Netherlands, Egypt, Czech Republic, Norway, Romania and Lithuania. There was also an operation in Russia which was discontinued during the year ended 31 March 2012 and an operation in Italy which was discontinued in the year ended 31 March 2011.
All other segments comprise the activities of Contract Manufacturing and Corporate. These did not meet the quantitative thresholds for determining reportable operating segments in 2012, 2011 or 2010.
Information regarding the results from continuing operations of each reportable segment is included below. Segment performance measures are revenue and trading profit/(loss) as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by the executive Directors. These measures are used to monitor performance as management believes that such information is the most relevant in evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities that operate within these industries.
Definitions of the non-GAAP profit measures set out in the tables below are provided in the accounting policies.
 
 
16
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
4. Segmental information (continued)
 
The reconciliation of trading profit to profit before tax is set out below:
 
The Group's reportable segment assets and liabilities at the year end were:
 
Allocated segment assets at the year end comprised goodwill of 4,751 million (2011: 4,815 million), other intangible assets of 5,508 million (2011: 5,630 million), property, plant and equipment of 1,992 million (2011: 2,069 million), non-current other receivables of 290 million (2011: 266 million), inventories of 1,782 million (2011: 2,069 million), and trade and other receivables of 3,078 million (2011: 3,530 million).
 
17
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Allocated segment liabilities at the year end comprised trade and other payables of 4,172 million (2011: 4,603 million), current provisions of 50 million (2011: 59 million), non-current other payables of 251 million (2011: 275 million) and non-current provisions of 33 million (2011: 58 million).
Eliminations included inter-segmental trading accounts between subsidiary undertakings.
Other information in respect of the Group's segments (including discontinued operations) was:
 
Segmental revenue based on the geographical location of customers was:
 
No revenues arose in Switzerland, the Company's country of domicile.
Segmental non-current, non-financial assets, excluding deferred tax assets and retirement benefit assets, based on the geographical location of the assets were:
 
Segment non-current, non-financial assets at the year end comprised goodwill of 4,751 million (2011: 4,815 million), other intangible assets of 5,508 million (2011: 5,630 million), property, plant and equipment of 1,992 million (2011: 2,069 million) and investments in associates and joint ventures of 911 million (2011: 838 million).
 
18
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
4. Segmental information (continued)
 
The Group's external revenues for groups of similar products and services were:
 
 
19
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
6. Exceptional items
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
The following items have been deducted in arriving at profit from operations:
 
Total remuneration paid to the Group's principal auditor in respect of discontinued operations was 146,000 (2011 : 174,000, 2010 : 297,000).
 
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group in continuing operations over the year, including Directors and part-time employees, was:
 
Costs incurred in respect of these employees were:
 
 
21
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts includes 22 million (2011: 21 million, 2010: 19 million) of rolled up interest on mezzanine debt which is payable when the debt itself is settled. The total interest expense for financial liabilities not at fair value through profit and loss was 371 million (2011 : 364 million, 2010 : 435 million). Financing fees include 27 million (2011: 26 million, 2010: 30 million) of amortised fees which are being expensed over the term of the financing being provided.
Interest income/expense related to derivative financial instruments is included within bank interest and other interest income and interest on bank loans and overdrafts within finance income and finance costs respectively on a gross basis.
The net loss on financial assets/liabilities at fair value through profit and loss was 38 million (2011: 23 million, 2010: 36 million).
 
22
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
An analysis of the tax charge/(credit) in the year was:
 
The Group's principal operations are geographically dispersed and therefore the appropriate standard rate of tax is the average of the standard tax rates in the countries of operation, weighted by the amount of profit before tax. The reconciliation of the expected total tax charge was based on this weighted average standard tax rate of 26.9% (2011: 28.5%, 2010: 24.7%).
The reconciliation of the expected total tax charge to the reported tax charge/(credit) in the year was:
 
 
 
The effective tax rate, which is defined as the tax charge expressed as a percentage of profit from operations (continuing and discontinued) excluding share of post tax earnings of associates and joint ventures, net of finance income and finance costs was 5.2% (2011: 4.6%, 2010: (34.3)%).
 
23
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
The underlying tax charge/(credit), which is the tax charge on continuing operations adjusted to exclude tax on amortisation of customer relationships and brands, exceptional items, timing differences within net finance costs and exceptional tax, reconciled to the tax charge in the year was:
 
The underlying effective tax rate, calculated as the underlying tax charge as a percentage of trading profit less underlying net finance costs, was 18.8% (2011: 19.3%, 2010: (0.2)%).
Tax (charge)/credit on items taken directly to other comprehensive income comprised:
 
 
On 31 March 2012, the Group sold 51% of its interest in Alliance Boots Investments 1 Limited, the UK parent company of its Russia business, to a fellow wholly owned subsidiary of AB Acquisitions Holdings Limited, the Group's parent and ultimate controlling entity. From that date the Group no longer had the ability to control the businesses operated and owned by Alliance Boots Investments 1 Limited, and since Russia was considered to be a significant separate geography, the results from Russia are shown separately as discontinued operations. The comparative income statements are presented to show this discontinued operation, together with the operations discontinued in the year ended 31 March 2011, separately from continuing operations.
From the date of disposal, the Group's remaining 49% interest in Alliance Boots Investments 1 Limited has been accounted for as an associate.
In the year to 31 March 2011, the Group sold 51% of its interest in its Italian subsidiary Alliance Healthcare Italia S.p.a. to a fellow wholly owned subsidiary of AB Acquisitions Holdings Limited, the Group's parent and ultimate controlling entity. From that date the Group no longer had the ability to control the businesses operated and owned by Alliance Healthcare Italia S.p.a., and since Italy was considered to be a significant separate geography, the results from Italy were shown separately as discontinued operations.
From the date of disposal, the Group's remaining 49% interest in Alliance Healthcare Italia S.p.a. has been accounted for as an associate.
The cash flow from discontinued operations was as follows:
 
The consideration received on the sale of the Group's 51% interest in Alliance Boots Investments 1 Limited was 3 million, and net borrowings at disposal were 28 million, which was net of 13 million of cash and cash equivalents.
The consideration received on the sale of the Group's 51% interest in Alliance Healthcare Italia S.p.a. in the prior year was 62 million, and net borrowings at disposal were 214 million, which included 120 million of bank overdrafts and 6 million of cash and cash equivalents.
 
24
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
The effect of the disposals on the financial position of the Group was:
 
The impairment of goodwill during the year of 3 million related to the Russia business which was subsequently sold on 31 March 2012 (see note 12). Following this disposal, the cumulative impairment in the carrying value of goodwill at 31 March 2012 was 146 million (2011: 146 million).
 
25
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Amortisation charges include continuing and discontinued operations.
Amortisation charges in respect of continuing operations were 163 million (2011: 158 million, 2010: 136 million), of which 131 million (2011: 124 million, 2010: 104 million) was recognised in selling, distribution and store costs, and 32 million (2011: 34 million, 2010 : 32 million) was recognised in administrative costs.
Impairment of customer relationships totalling 8 million was recognised during the year ended 31 March 2012 in respect of the Russia business which was disposed of on 31 March 2012.
Included within the carrying value of brands is the Boots brand which has a carrying value of 2,162 million (2011: 2,162 million).
 
26
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
Goodwill, pharmacy licences and brands which have an indefinite useful life are subject to annual impairment testing, or are assessed more frequently if there are indications of impairment.
Goodwill, pharmacy licences, brands and customer relationships have been allocated to the appropriate cash generating units ("CGUs") identified according to the country of operation and business. Those with significant amounts allocated at the year end are shown in the table below:
 
Other comprises individually non-significant CGUs in comparison with the Group's total carrying amount of goodwill and other intangible assets.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations which use discounted cash flows for a period of five years taken from approved budgets and three year forecasts, and extrapolated cash flows for the periods beyond these using estimated long term growth rates. The key assumptions are:
 
The CGUs with significant amounts of intangible assets are Boots UK and the Pharmaceutical Wholesale business in the UK. For these UK CGUs, the pre tax discount rate was 12.0% (2011: 13.0%), and the long term growth rates were 2.3% and 4.2% respectively (2011: 2.1% and 3.6% respectively). For other CGUs pre tax discount rates ranged from 11.5% to 18.5% (2011: 12.5% to 15.0%), and the long term growth rates used ranged from 0.9% to 14.7% (2011: 1.1% to 10.9%). Given the current economic climate, a sensitivity analysis has been performed in assessing the recoverable amounts of goodwill.
 
 
 
27
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Depreciation charges include continuing and discontinued operations.
Depreciation charges in respect of continuing operations were 206 million (2011: 202 million, 2010: 214 million), of which 6 million (2011: 6 million, 2010: 6 million) was recognised in cost of sales, 166 million (2011: 165 million, 2010: 175 million) was recognised in selling, distribution and store costs, and 34 million (2011: 31 million, 2010: 33 million) was recognised in administrative costs.
Included within the net book values were amounts in respect of assets held under finance leases of 2 million (2011: 4 million) in land and buildings, 4 million (2011: 9 million) in plant and machinery and 11 million (2011: 6 million) in fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment. Property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of 23 million (2011: 28 million) have been pledged as security for certain of the Group's borrowing facilities.
Included within the net book values were assets in the course of construction of 2 million (2011: 3 million) in land and buildings, 5 million (2011: 5 million) in plant and machinery and 17 million (2011: 33 million) in fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment.
 
 
Acquisitions of businesses comprised a 14 million additional investment into Guangzhou Pharmaceuticals Corporation, our existing joint venture, various Health & Beauty investments which totalled 8 million and the recognition of an associate investment of 3 million in the Russia business disposed of by the Group on 31 March 2012 (note 12).
Acquisitions of businesses in the prior year mainly related to Alliance Healthcare Italia S.p.a., where the Group disposed of 51% of its interest in this formerly wholly owned subsidiary to a fellow wholly owned subsidiary of the Group's parent and ultimate controlling entity (note 12).
Amounts derecognised on acquisitions of controlling interests in associates in the prior year related to Hedef Alliance Holding A.S. and Andreae-Noris Zahn AG, both of which became subsidiaries in the prior year as a result of the acquisition of controlling interests (note 33). Associate interests of these companies at the date of acquisition of the respective controlling interests were included within acquisitions of businesses.
 
28
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Included within the total carrying value of investments in associates and joint ventures was 634 million (2011: 585 million) in respect of Galenica Ltd., a company listed in Switzerland. The market value of the Group's share of Galenica Ltd., based on the closing share price at 31 March 2012, was 680 million (2011: 637 million).
Details of the Group's principal associates and joint ventures are provided in note 37.
The aggregate assets and liabilities reported by associates and joint ventures at 31 March were:
 
The Group's share of contingent liabilities of associates and joint ventures was 43 million (2011: 39 million).
The aggregate revenues reported by associates and joint ventures for the year ended 31 March were:
 
 
 
Included in the aggregate carrying value presented above was 86 million (2011: 123 million) of inventories held at net realisable value.
The net reversal in the year of write-downs that were previously recognised as a reduction in the carrying value of inventories to net realisable value was 5 million (2011: 8 million). The cost of inventories expensed in all years presented was not materially different to the cost of sales recorded (note 5). Inventories with a carrying amount of 28 million (2011: 90 million) have been pledged as security for certain of the Group's borrowing facilities.
 
29
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Loans to customers and extended terms included receivables of 42 million (2011: 63 million) where contractual terms have been renegotiated to extend the credit period offered.
Where trade receivables are estimated to be less than their carrying values, provisions have been made to write these down to their estimated recoverable amounts. The aggregate carrying value of trade receivables which were either partially or fully impaired was 179 million (2011: 263 million) and the associated aggregate impairment was 38 million (2011: 33 million). Trade receivables with a carrying amount of 30 million (2011: 41 million) have been pledged as security for certain of the Group's borrowing facilities.
Included within the aggregate unimpaired trade receivables were 107 million (2011: 151 million) which were past due. These balances have been assessed for recoverability and the Group believes that their credit quality remains intact. An ageing analysis of these unimpaired past due trade receivables was:
 
The movement in the provision for impairment of trade receivables was:
 
 
 
 
30
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
Restricted cash at 31 March 2012 of 254 million (2011: 285 million) consisted of deposits restricted under contractual agency agreements of 93 million (2011: 87 million), cash pledged as collateral on financial instruments and other obligations of 82 million (2011: 90 million), cash pledged as collateral for loan notes of 76 million (2011: 105 million), and cash restricted by law of 3 million (2011: 3 million).
 
The carrying amounts of assets classified as held for sale were:
 
During the year and the prior year, the Group disposed of property, plant and equipment, which had previously been reclassified as assets held for sale. The proceeds and gain on disposal of these assets was 1 million (2011: 7 million, 2010: 2 million) and nil (2011: nil, 2010: nil) respectively.
 
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following after offset:
 
 
31
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year was:
 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets have only been recognised on deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses or tax credits to the extent that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised, or where these can be utilised against other taxable temporary differences. The assets are recorded after reviewing the financial forecasts of the Group's position, depreciation and potential capital expenditure for capital allowances. Where it is not considered probable that a taxable profit will arise against which the temporary difference can be utilised, no asset has been recognised. Unprovided deferred tax on losses was 15 million (2011: 21 million) and on other timing differences was nil (2011: 5 million). The losses had no expiration date and could be carried forward indefinitely (2011: 7 million expired in 10 years).
Deferred tax liabilities of 18 million (2011: 10 million) have not been recognised for the tax that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiary undertakings since the Group has discretion over the manner and timing of any distributions, if any, to be made in the future. Unremitted earnings of these subsidiary undertakings totalled 121 million (2011: 115 million).
 
32
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
The liability to acquire equity stakes from non controlling interests mainly relates to amounts the Group is committed to further increase its ownership in Hedef Alliance Holding A.S. and Farmexpert DCI S.A. respectively.
 
The carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities were:
 
 
33
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
The Group's principal borrowings at the year end were:
 
 
 
Maturity profile of financial liabilities
The table below shows the contractual maturities of financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis. Interest payments are calculated based on liabilities held at 31 March 2012 without taking account of any future debt issuance. Floating rate interest was estimated using prevailing interest conditions at 31 March 2012. Cash flows in non-Sterling currencies were translated using prevailing exchange rates at 31 March 2012. All floating rate borrowings re-price within six months of the year end.
 
In addition to the contractual maturities of financial liabilities presented above, the Group has an ongoing future dividend obligation in relation to the non controlling interest arising on the acquisitions of Hedef Alliance Holding A.S. and Dollond & Aitchison in previous years. The contractual undiscounted cash flows are 12 million (2011: 16 million) within one year, 11 million (2011: 13 million) between 1 and 2 years and 18 million (2011: 27 million) between 2 and 5 years.
 
34
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Finance lease liabilities
 
Under the terms of the finance lease agreements entered into by the Group, no material contingent rents are payable.
 
35
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Carrying value and fair value
Carrying values and fair values of the Group's financial assets and liabilities held to finance the Group's operations were:
 
The fair values of overdrafts, other loans, trade receivables and loans to customers approximate to their carrying values due to either their short term nature or being re-priced at variable interest rates. The carrying values of the senior facilities and subordinated facility loans, which are variable rate, were lower than the fair values of the instruments due mainly to the impact of unamortised fees included in the carrying value.
 
36
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Carrying value and fair value (continued)
The carrying values of financial assets and liabilities held at fair value, as analysed by the levels of the fair value hierarchy, were:
 
The levels of the fair value hierarchy reflect the significance of the valuation inputs used in making fair value measurements and are defined as follows:
 
Derivative financial instruments
The derivative financial instruments that the Group holds are not traded in an active market. Accordingly, their fair values are determined by using suitable valuation techniques that do not make use of entity-specific estimates or by using movements in observable prices for underlying financial instruments attributable to the hedged risks. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated by discounting the estimated cash flows received and paid based on the applicable observable yield curves using the risk-free interest rate. The fair value of interest rate caps is calculated using an options pricing methodology. The fair value of cross currency contracts and forward currency contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current available forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using the risk-free interest rate. The fair value of credit derivatives is calculated by discounting anticipated cash flows using the applicable observable yield curve plus a margin derived from the current trading value of the underlying security. All computed fair values for derivative financial instruments include an appropriate adjustment for own and counterparty credit risk as appropriate.
Available-for-sale investments
The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices.
 
Capital risk management
The Group's objectives in managing its capital are to safeguard the Group's ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure that reduces the cost of capital.
The Group defines its capital employed of 12,718 million (2011: 12,967 million) as total equity of 5,701 million (2011: 5,124 million) and net borrowings of 7,017 million (2011: 7,843 million).
The ability of certain Group companies to pay dividends, for ultimate distribution to shareholders, is restricted by the terms of the financing agreements to which they are party.
Financial risk management - overview
The Group's trading and financing activities expose it to various financial risks that could adversely impact on future earnings and cash flows. Although not necessarily mutually exclusive, these financial risks are categorised separately according to their different generic risk characteristics and include market risk (foreign currency risk, cash flow interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group is actively engaged in the management of all of these financial risks in order to moderate their potential adverse impact on the Group's financial performance and position.
 
37
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Liquidity risk management
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
Access to cost-effective funding is managed by maintaining a range of committed and uncommitted facilities, sufficient to meet anticipated needs, arranging funding ahead of requirements, and developing diversified sources of funding.
Group liquidity is optimised through cash pooling and deposits with, or loans from, Group treasury companies.
The Group's core borrowings are provided through committed term loans. The carrying value of these loans, which are denominated in Sterling, Euros and Swiss Francs, at 31 March 2012 was 7,387 million (2011: 8,078 million) including the impact of repurchases, currency revaluation and reported net of unamortised fees incurred in respect of the loans. These loans mature between 2014 and 2017. The Group also has access to a committed 627 million (2011: 702 million) revolving credit facility, 18 million (2011: nil) of which was drawn down at 31 March 2012, 118 million (2011: 176 million) of which was utilised in providing guarantees and letters of credit principally to the Boots Pension Scheme and 491 million (2011: 526 million) of which was available as at 31 March 2012. This facility provides access to funding in a range of currencies and is available until 2014.
The Group's net borrowings vary throughout the year in a predictable seasonal pattern subject to material acquisitions and disposals. In particular, net borrowings peak in the autumn due to the working capital requirements of Christmas trading.
The Group monitors its net borrowing position on a daily basis against both budget and a rolling two month cash forecast. The maturity profile of the Group's financial liabilities at 31 March 2012 is shown in note 26.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group's receivables from customers, derivative financial instruments, cash balances, restricted cash, short term deposits and profit participating notes.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, at the year end.
Credit risk exposure to commercial counterparties is managed through credit control functions in each of the businesses. New customers are credit checked, customer limits are reviewed at least annually and aged receivable reviews are undertaken regularly.
The Group considers the possibility of significant loss in the event of non-performance by a financial or commercial counterparty to be unlikely.
At 31 March 2012 there were no significant concentrations of credit risk in respect of trade receivables and customer loans. The largest credit exposure of the Group at 31 March 2012 was to the National Health Service in the UK.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables, including loans to customers and extended terms, net of provision for impairment, other loans and the profit participating notes at 31 March by geographic region was:
 
Exposures to financial counterparties arise from other non trade receivables, the use of derivative financial instruments, cash balances and short term deposits. The Group protects itself against the risk of financial loss arising from the failure of financial counterparties by setting ratings based limits to the maximum exposure to individual counterparties or their groups. Limits are set by reference to ratings issued by the major rating agencies, Standard and Poor's and Moody's Investors Service Limited.
At 31 March 2012 total exposures of the Group to financial counterparties was 932 million (2011: 950 million) of which 8 million (2011: 36 million) related to derivative financial instruments, 670 million (2011: 629 million) was in respect of cash and cash equivalents and 254 million (2011: 285 million) was in respect of restricted cash.
534 million (2011: 564 million) of derivative financial assets, cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash relate to balances managed centrally by Group treasury spread across a number of high quality counterparties, all of whom have a credit rating of A- or better. The remaining 398 million (2011: 386 million) of cash and cash equivalents represents short term deposits, restricted cash, cash-in-transit and cash held in operational bank accounts across the Group.
Profit participating notes and other loans totalled 238 million (2011: 214 million). The profit participating notes are issued by, and other loans are invested in, or lent to, unrated entities (see note 37).
 
38
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Group's income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage market risks within acceptable parameters. The Group transacts in financial instruments including derivatives in order to manage these risks in accordance with the Group treasury policies approved by the Board.
Currency risk
The Group is party to a variety of currency derivatives in the management of exchange rate exposures, including cross currency swaps and forward currency exchange contracts. Movements in the fair value of all forward currency exchange contracts other than those that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges or net investment hedges are reported directly in the income statement.
The Group utilises forward currency exchange derivatives to hedge significant committed and highly probable future transactions and cash flows denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of a Group entity.
At 31 March 2012, the Group had no outstanding forward currency exchange contracts (2011: nil) that were designated and effective as cash flow hedges of committed forecast transactions.
A gain of 1 million was recycled from the cash flow hedge reserve to cost of sales in respect of contracts designated as cash flow hedges of the attributable currency risk on highly probable forecast transactions (2011: loss of 1 million). During the year there were no gains or losses recycled from the cash flow hedge reserve to non-current non-financial assets in respect of contracts designated as cash flow hedges of the attributable currency risk on capital expenditure projects (2011: nil).
The Group has significant non-Sterling denominated currency net investments denominated in Euros and Swiss Francs and in addition uses derivative financial instruments, specifically cross currency swaps, forward currency exchange contracts and non-Sterling currency borrowings to hedge the non-Sterling currency risk.
At 31 March 2012 952 million (2011: 979 million) of non-Sterling currency borrowings were designated as net investment hedges.
The Group has a number of cross currency swap contracts in place. At 31 March 2012, the fair value of the Group's cross currency swaps was a liability of 134 million (2011: 194 million). 49 million (2011: 46 million) of the liability related to cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges of non-Sterling denominated currency net investments and the associated movements in fair value have been deferred in equity. The remaining liability of 85 million (2011: 148 million) related to cross currency swaps designated as held for trading. The currency exchange risk associated with these swaps was hedged through the use of short dated forward currency exchange contracts designated as held for trading.
The effect of currency swaps and forward currency exchange contracts to manage translation risk on net borrowings was:
At 31 March 2012 the total notional amount of outstanding forward currency exchange contracts that the Group has committed was 358 million (2011: 487 million).
At 31 March 2012 the statement of financial position carrying value of the Group's outstanding forward currency exchange contracts was nil (2011: 2 million liability).
 
39
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Currency risk - sensitivity analysis
The table below shows the Group's sensitivity to non-Sterling exchange rates on its non-Sterling financial instruments, excluding trade payables and trade receivables, which do not represent a significant exposure to exchange rates.
A 10% (2011: 10%, 2010: 10%) strengthening of Sterling against the following currencies would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit for the year by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, including interest rates, remain constant and that instruments designated as net investment hedges remain highly effective. In this table financial instruments are only considered sensitive for exchange rates where they are not in the functional currency of the entity that holds them.
 
A 10% (2011: 10%) weakening of Sterling against these currencies at 31 March 2012 would have had the equal and opposite effect to that shown above on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
The movements in equity relate to non-Sterling borrowings and cross currency swaps used to hedge Group assets denominated in those currencies. An appreciation in the value of the borrowing or cross currency swap would be matched by a corresponding depreciation in the value of the related Group asset, which would also be recorded in equity. Exchange rate sensitivities on Group assets other than financial instruments have not been shown in the table above.
Cash flow interest rate risk
The Group manages interest rate risk in accordance with the treasury policy approved by the Board. Exposures are hedged through a combination of interest rate caps and interest rate swaps.
The Group has a mixture of fixed and floating rate borrowings. Before the impact of derivative financial instruments, 84 million or 1.1% (2011: 298 million or 3.5%) of total borrowings were at fixed interest rates. The re-pricing risk of the fixed borrowings coincides with their maturity. The floating rate borrowings re-price within six months of the reporting date, based on short term borrowing rates for the relevant currency.
The Group has interest rate swaps with notional principal amounts of 500 million (2011: 500 million) and 10 million (2011: 10 million) to swap outstanding borrowings from floating to fixed rates. The Group has interest rate caps with notional principal amounts of 3,500 million (2011: 3,500 million) and 1,600 million (2011: 1,623 million) to protect the Group from rising interest rates on the corresponding amounts of borrowings until July 2012. The Group also has interest rate caps effective between July 2012 and July 2015 with notional principal amounts of 1,500 million and 2,000 million respectively.
After taking into account the impact of derivative financial instruments, 5,357 million or 69% (2011: 5,610 million or 66%) of the Group's total borrowings were at fixed or capped interest rates. All other borrowings re-price within six months of the year end.
At 31 March 2012, 5,341 million or 72% (2011: 5,410 million or 66%) of the principal outstanding under the facilities raised to finance the acquisition of Alliance Boots plc was hedged.
The impact of a 1% increase and a 1% decrease in interest rates on 31 March 2012 on pre tax profit are shown in the table below. This analysis assumes that all other variables are held constant. On this basis there would have been no significant amounts recognised directly in equity.
 
Equity price risk
The Group is exposed to equity price risk through its long term holdings of listed and unlisted securities, which are classified as available-for-sale investments and held at fair value. The associated measurement volatility on these investments is recorded directly in equity, unless an equity instrument has suffered a significant or prolonged decline, in which case an impairment loss is recorded in profit or loss.
Equity price risk - sensitivity analysis
The potential impact on the Group's equity resulting from the application of +/- 5% movement in the fair value of its available-for-sale investments would have been a gain/(loss) recorded in the available-for-sale reserve of 2 million (2011: 3 million).
 
40
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
Set out below is a reconciliation of the net increase in cash and cash equivalents to the decrease in net borrowings at 31 March 2012:
 
Cash and cash equivalents outflow from decrease in debt and debt financing comprised of proceeds from borrowings of 207 million (2011: 23 million, 2010: 39 million), less repayment of borrowings, repurchase of acquisition borrowings and settlement of derivatives of 878 million (2011: 439 million, 2010: 666 million) and repayment of capital element of finance lease obligations of 7 million (2011: 10 million, 2010: 17 million).
Set out below is an analysis of the movement in net borrowings during the year:
 
 
41
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
In the Group statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents included bank overdrafts classified as borrowings within current liabilities in the statement of financial position, which amounted to 2 million (2011: 35 million, 2010: 271 million).
 
 
 
42
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Restructuring and reorganisation
The restructuring and reorganisation provision relates primarily to the restructuring programmes announced in the Pharmaceutical Wholesale Division and in the UK part of the Health & Beauty Division and related contract manufacturing activities respectively.
Vacant property
The vacant property provisions represent recognition of the present value of the expected net costs arising from vacant properties and sub-let properties. The exact timing of utilisation of these provisions will vary according to the individual properties concerned.
Other
The other provision relates mainly to long service award entitlements accrued on a probability-weighted basis.
 
 
 
43
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
Other reserves movements within equity were:
 
 
44
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
The nature and purpose of each reserve in equity is:
Retained earnings
The Group's retained earnings reserve, which is presented in the Group's statement of changes in equity, comprises the Group's retained earnings, net of distributions made to equity holders, movements related to non controlling interests purchased, together with actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit schemes and related tax movements.
Available-for-sale reserve
The available-for-sale reserve comprises the cumulative net change in the fair value of the Group's available-for-sale investments. Net fair value movements are recycled to the income statement if an underlying available-for-sale investment is either derecognised or impaired.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all currency exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of non-Sterling denominated operations into the presentation currency of the Group, as well as from the translation of financial liabilities that hedge the Company's net investment in non-Sterling denominated subsidiaries.
Cash flow hedge reserve
The cash flow hedge reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to the hedged risks on highly probable forecast transactions that have not yet occurred. When a forecast transaction occurs and the hedged risk is realised, an appropriate amount is recycled from the cash flow hedge reserve either to the income statement or to the carrying value of a non-current non-financial asset, according to where the underlying cash flow is recorded.
Special reserve
The special reserve comprises amounts recorded on the recognition of commitments to acquire equity stakes from non controlling interests. When the commitments are derecognised, the amounts initially recorded are reversed.
Associates' and joint ventures' other comprehensive income
The associates' and joint ventures' other comprehensive income reserve records the Group's share of post tax other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures.
 
Acquisitions during the year ended 31 March 2012
The Group acquired further equity stakes in two businesses where controlling interests were acquired in the prior year. These were a further 10% stake in Hedef Alliance Holding A.S. ("Hedef Alliance") on 6 May 2011 for consideration of 82 million and a further 20% stake in our existing subsidiary Farmexpert DCI S.A. on 15 February 2012 for consideration of 30 million, of which 13 million was deferred and paid on 2 April 2012.
The Group acquired a number of businesses in the year for cash consideration totalling 10 million. Net assets identified included the fair value of customer relationships of 3 million. Goodwill on these acquisitions was 5 million.
Acquisition related costs
The Group incurred acquisition related costs of 1 million (2011: 8 million) in respect of the acquisitions described above and other acquisition related projects. These costs have been included within administrative costs in the Group's consolidated income statement and classified as exceptional items.
 
45
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Acquisitions during the year ended 31 March 2011
The Group's two major acquisitions during the year ended 31 March 2011 were the acquisitions of a controlling interest in Hedef Alliance in July 2010 and of a controlling interest in Andreae-Noris Zahn AG ("ANZAG") in December 2010. Both were previously associates of the Group.
Hedef Alliance
The Group increased its shareholding in Hedef Alliance to 70% in two stages in the year, having previously held a 50% associate interest. Hedef Alliance is one of the largest pharmaceutical wholesalers in Turkey, and has a controlling 50% interest in United Company of Pharmacists S.A.E. ("UCP"), the leading pharmaceutical wholesaler in Egypt, and a 30% associate interest in Hydra Pharm SPA, the largest wholesaler in Algeria.
The Group obtained control of Hedef Alliance on 23 July 2010 by acquiring an additional 10% stake for consideration of 94 million which was settled in cash. A further 10% stake was acquired on 18 February 2011 for consideration of 86 million, of which 23 million was deferred and paid on 6 May 2011.
The net assets acquired at the date of acquisition, as adjusted from book to fair value, and the attributable goodwill were:
 
The goodwill of 215 million represented the intangible assets which could not be individually separated and reliably measured due to their nature. This included the growth opportunities presented through investment in international businesses in large and growing markets. The non controlling interests were measured at fair value. The remeasurement to fair value of the Group's existing 50% associate interest in Hedef Alliance resulted in a gain of 22 million (fair value of 400 million less 378 million carrying value of equity accounted associate at acquisition date), which was recognised in the income statement within profit from operations.
 
46
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
ANZAG
Through Alliance Healthcare Deutschland Holdings 1 GmbH, a company owned 80% by the Group and 20% by a fellow subsidiary owned by the Group's parent and ultimate controlling entity, the Group acquired a controlling shareholding in ANZAG. Alliance Healthcare Deutschland Holdings 1 GmbH initially acquired the Group's pre-existing 29.99% interest, subsequently increased this by 51.89% to 81.88% in two stages. ANZAG is one of the largest pharmaceutical wholesalers in Germany and has a controlling interest in a pharmaceutical wholesale business and health & beauty business in Lithuania, a pharmaceutical wholesale business in Romania and an associate interest in a pharmaceutical wholesale business in Croatia which also trades in Bosnia Herzegovina, Serbia and Slovenia.
The Group obtained control of ANZAG on 16 December 2010 by Alliance Healthcare Deutschland Holdings 1 GmbH acquiring an additional 51.65% stake for consideration of 121 million which was all settled in cash. Following a tender offer for the remaining shares, a further 0.24% stake was acquired on 1 February 2011 for consideration of 1 million.
The net assets acquired at the date of acquisition, as adjusted from book to fair value, and the attributable goodwill were:
 
The negative goodwill reflected the value of net assets employed relative to ANZAG's enterprise value, and in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations was included in the income statement within profit from operations. The non controlling interests were measured at fair value. The remeasurement to fair value of the Group's existing 29.99% interest in ANZAG resulted in a loss of 3 million (fair value of 71 million less 74 million carrying value of equity accounted associate at acquisition date), which was recognised in the income statement within profit from operations.
The consolidated income statement for the prior year included revenue of 1,714 million and profit of 68 million in respect of Hedef Alliance, and revenue of 1,047 million and profit of 7 million in respect of ANZAG since their respective acquisition dates. If Hedef Alliance and ANZAG had both been subsidiaries of the Group from the beginning of the prior year, taking into account their respective results prior to acquisition, revenue and profit for the combined Group on a pro forma basis would have been 23,738 million and 639 million respectively.
Other acquisitions
In addition, the Group acquired a number of businesses in the year for cash consideration totalling 6 million. Net assets identified included the fair value of pharmacy licences of 5 million. Goodwill on these acquisitions was 2 million and non controlling interests recognised was 2 million.
Disposals during the year ended 31 March 2012
On 31 March 2012 the Group sold 51% of its interest in Alliance Boots Investments 1 Limited, the UK parent company of its Russia business, to a fellow wholly owned subsidiary of AB Acquisitions Holdings Limited, the Group's parent and ultimate controlling entity (note 12).
Disposals during the year ended 31 March 2011
On 31 July 2010 the Group sold 51% of its interest in its Italian subsidiary Alliance Healthcare Italia S.p.a. to a fellow wholly owned subsidiary of AB Acquisitions Holdings Limited, the Group's parent and ultimate controlling entity (note 12).
 
47
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
At 31 March outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases which fall due were:
 
The Group leases a number of its properties under operating leases. The leases run predominantly for periods from 1 to 25 years, with options to break the leases during the period and renew the leases at the end of the period. Lease rentals are increased at regular intervals to reflect market rentals. None of the leases include material contingent rentals. Rental income from sub-let properties was 22 million (2011: 24 million). Total future minimum sub-let income at the end of the year was 53 million (2011: 65 million).
 
Commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the year end but not yet incurred was 32 million (2011: 37 million) in respect of property, plant and equipment and software.
Contingent liabilities
The Group had aggregate contingent liabilities of 78 million (2011: 87 million), including 15 million (2011: 25 million) for letters of guarantee provided to certain suppliers, a 17 million (2011: 17 million) guarantee provided by Andreae-Noris Zahn AG for certain of its customers and a financial guarantee issued to a third party to underwrite 10 million (2011: 10 million) of loan finance on asset disposals that occurred in a prior year.
 
The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes in the UK and other countries including both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
Defined benefit schemes
UK scheme
Following the buy out of the Alliance UniChem UK Group Pension Scheme in the prior year, the Group's principal UK defined benefit scheme is the Boots Pension Scheme, which was closed to future accrual when the Group implemented a new defined contribution scheme in the UK on 1 July 2010.
The Boots Pension Scheme entered into Memoranda of Understanding during 2007/08 with the Group, the main elements of which were an agreement that conservative investment strategies would be maintained (the Boots Pension Scheme has continued with its investment strategy of planning to hold 15% of its assets in equity and property to back long term liabilities, and 85% of its assets in a diverse portfolio of high quality bonds to match liabilities up to 35 years), and a commitment to pay additional contributions. Cash contributions of 40 million were made during the year under the Memorandum of Understanding and up to 31 March 2012, 152 million of additional contributions have been made, with a further 117 million committed in four equal annual instalments from August 2013. The final payment of 149 million originally due in August 2017 has been replaced by cash flows that arise on a pension funding partnership structure established by the Group and the scheme's trustees in March 2012. This is the second such structure (following that established in March 2011) and under this structure the Group contributed an interest in a partnership worth 127 million to the scheme, and transferred a number of properties to the partnership under a sale and leaseback arrangement. The partnership will make annual distributions of around 12 million to the scheme for 15 years.
The first pension funding partnership structure was set up in March 2011 as part of the funding plan agreed with the trustees on finalisation of the triennial actuarial funding valuation of the Boots Pension Scheme. Under the first structure, the Group contributed an interest in a partnership worth 146 million to the scheme, and transferred a number of properties to the partnership under a sale and leaseback arrangement. This partnership makes annual distributions of around 10 million to the scheme for 20 years. In addition, it will make a capital sum in 2031 equal to the lower of 156 million and any funding deficit in the scheme at that point in time.
The scheme's interests in the partnerships reduces the deficit on a funding basis, although the agreement does not impact the deficit on an IAS 19 accounting basis, as the investments held by the scheme in the partnerships do not qualify as assets for the purposes of the Group's consolidated financial statements and are therefore not included within the fair value of plan assets.
UK legislation has changed to set the Consumer Prices Index (CPI) as the statutory measure for applying increases to pensions in payment and for revaluing preserved pensions for occupational pension schemes. Previously the Retail Prices Index (RPI) was used. A small number of scheme members were affected by this change and, as CPI is projected to continue to increase at a lower rate than RPI, this change resulted in a reduction in the defined benefit scheme liabilities of 24 million which has been recognised within profit from operations as a negative past service cost.
 
48
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Non-UK schemes
During the year, the Group closed its defined benefit pension scheme in The Netherlands to future accrual and subsequently transferred the obligations to a third party.
In the prior year, the Group closed its defined benefit schemes in the Republic of Ireland and Norway. The obligations of the Norwegian scheme were subsequently transferred to a third party.
The net amount recognised in respect of defined benefit schemes was:
 
The change in the present value of defined benefit scheme liabilities was:
 
The change in the fair value of defined benefit scheme assets was:
 
The Group expects to contribute approximately 22 million to its defined benefit schemes in the year ended 31 March 2013.
 
49
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
The net (expense)/credit recognised in the income statement comprised:
 
The curtailment gains relate to the closure of a number of the schemes to future accrual and the settlement loss in the year to 31 March 2011 relates to the transfer of the obligations of the Alliance UniChem UK Group Pension Scheme to an insurer.
The (expense)/credit was recognised in the following line items in the income statement:
 
The amounts recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income were:
 
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income at 31 March 2012 was a net loss of 383 million (2011: 511 million loss, 2010: 665 million loss).
The amounts recognised for the fair value of scheme assets, the present value of scheme liabilities and experience gains/(losses) on scheme assets and liabilities for the past five years ended 31 March, were:
 
 
50
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
The principal actuarial assumptions at the year end were:
The expected returns on defined benefit scheme assets for the following financial year are:
 
The expected return on non-UK defined benefit scheme assets ranged from 2.4% to 6.8% (2011: 3.7% to 7.7%, 2010: 5.0% to 6.0%). The expected rate of return on defined benefit scheme assets has been determined with reference to historic and projected market returns. The actual return on defined benefit scheme assets was a 550 million gain (2011: 287 million gain, 2010: 737 million gain).
The mortality assumptions adopted as at 31 March 2012 have been set to reflect the Company's best estimate view of life expectancies of members for each individual pension arrangement. These mortality assumptions vary by arrangement, each assumption reflecting the characteristics of the membership of that arrangement. In terms of the Boots Pension Scheme, which is the Group's largest defined benefit pension scheme, a detailed analysis of the current mortality rates experienced in the scheme was carried out during the prior year as part of the triennial funding valuation. These mortality rates were adopted for the 31 March 2012 IAS 19 Employee Benefits accounting valuation of this scheme.
The projected life expectancy from the age of 60 years was:
 
A sensitivity analysis on the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities at the year end is:
 
Defined contribution schemes
The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes. During the year, in respect of continuing operations, the cost recorded in the income statement was 85 million (2011: 65 million, 2010: 18 million).
 
51
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
Parent and ultimate controlling party
At 31 March 2012, AB Acquisitions Holdings Limited was the immediate and ultimate parent company of Alliance Boots GmbH.
AB Acquisitions Holdings Limited is incorporated in Gibraltar, and its registered office is 57/63 Line Wall Road, Gibraltar. AB Acquisitions Holdings Limited is jointly controlled by Alliance Sant Participations S.A., and by certain funds advised by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P.. S. Pessina and O. Barra, who are Directors of Alliance Boots GmbH, are also directors of Alliance Sant Participations S.A., which is ultimately owned by a family trust.
Key management personnel
Key management personnel comprise the Directors of Alliance Boots GmbH and, in addition, W. Zettel through his directorship of AB Acquisitions Holdings Limited. The Directors of Alliance Boots GmbH were:
S. Pessina* (Executive Chairman)
G.R. Fairweather*
M. Pagni*
O. Barra*
A. Gourlay*
D. Murphy
M. Caprioli
S. D'Angelo
N.C.E. Land
C. Britton
A. De Nunzio
E. Jornod
* Executive Directors
There was no change in Directors since 31 March 2012.
Key management personnel remuneration
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group comprised:
 
Other transactions with key management personnel
Together with other senior managers, executive Directors participate in a management equity plan which is designed to enable them, as investors, to share in the future financial success of the Group through an investment of personal capital. To assist participation, the Group provides loans under commercial terms, and at 31 March 2012 the loan amounts outstanding in respect of key management personnel were 0.3 million (2011: 0.3 million). The loans are repayable by June 2012.
At 31 March 2012, A Gourlay, together with family members, held 18,846 (2011: 36,846) loan notes with a nominal value of 1 each issued by the Group, having redeemed 18,000 (2011: nil) during the year.
During the year, S. Pessina received 264 shares (2011: 237 shares, 2010: 317 shares) in Galenica Ltd., an associate investment of the Group, in lieu of fees for his services as a director. At 31 March 2012, S. Pessina owned 1,315 shares (2011: 1,051 shares) in Galenica Ltd.. On 1 January 2012, E. Jornod received 40,000 shares in Galenica Ltd. in lieu of director's fees for the period 1 January 2012 to 31 January 2016, and at 31 March 2012 he owned 48,823 shares (2011: 9,361 shares) in total in Galenica Ltd.. In addition, he has a conditional right to acquire 8,750 shares in 2012.
Key management personnel may purchase goods for personal and family use from the Health & Beauty Division businesses in the UK on the same terms and conditions as those available to all other UK employees of the Group.
 
52
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Transactions with fellow subsidiaries of AB Acquisitions Holdings Limited
The Group has transacted with fellow subsidiaries of AB Acquisitions Holdings Limited during the current and prior years, all of which have been on arm's length bases. A summary of these transactions is as follows:
On 31 March 2012, the Group sold 51% of its interest in Alliance Boots Investments 1 Limited, the UK parent company of its Russia business, to a fellow subsidiary for 3.0 million. At 31 March 2012, there was a net receivable due to the Group in respect of Alliance Boots Investments 1 Limited and its subsidiaries of 13.3 million which is repayable in 2014. In addition, the Group has provided a Russian Rouble committed loan facility until 2014 equivalent to 30.0 million to the Russia business. No amounts had been drawn down at 31 March 2012 under this facility.
During the year, 13.0 million was advanced to a fellow subsidiary which was subsequently repaid in full.
In the prior year, the Group sold 51% of its interest in its Italian subsidiary, Alliance Healthcare Italia S.p.a., to a fellow subsidiary for 62 million.
In the prior year, 25.0 million was advanced to a fellow subsidiary under a committed loan facility. Finance income recorded in the income statement in relation to the loan in the current year was 1.6 million (2011: 0.4 million) and the cumulative amount of interest receivable at 31 March 2012 was 2.0 million (2011: 0.4 million). The loan receivable by the Group at 31 March 2012 was 25.0 million (2011: 25.0 million) and is repayable in 2015.
In the prior year, 25.0 million was advanced to a fellow subsidiary under an on demand, committed loan facility and repaid in full during the prior year.
In 2009/10, a 75.0 million five year, fixed rate loan was drawn down under a facility provided by a fellow subsidiary. In the prior year 66.4 million was repaid. Finance costs recorded in the income statement in the current year were 0.7 million (2011: 2.7 million, 2010: 5.9 million) and the cumulative amount of interest payable at 31 March 2012 was 6.3 million (2011: 8.6 million). The loan payable by the Group at 31 March 2012 was 8.6 million (2011: 8.6 million) and is repayable in 2014.
In the prior year, loans advanced under revolving credit facilities to AB Acquisitions Holdings Limited and a fellow subsidiary were repaid in full. The loan amounts outstanding at the beginning of the prior year under these facilities were 1.4 million and 0.9 million respectively, and prior to being repaid in full, a further 4.0 million was advanced to the fellow subsidiary.
During the year 0.9 million was received on behalf of a fellow subsidiary, 0.9 million was still held at the year end.
Trading transactions with associates which are also fellow subsidiaries of AB Acquisitions Holdings Limited are included within the table set out later in this note.
Transactions with other related parties
As disclosed in the shareholder circular sent to the shareholders of Alliance Boots plc on 26 May 2007, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. and Alliance Participations Limited or their respective designees are each entitled to receive an annual monitoring fee. S. Pessina and O. Barra are directors of Alliance Participations Limited which is owned by a family trust. During the year, each party received 3.2 million (2011: 2.9 million, 2010: 2.8 million), of which 0.8 million was outstanding to each at 31 March 2012 (2011: 0.8 million outstanding to each).
The Group, in its normal course of business, transacts with other entities controlled or significantly influenced by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P.. All transactions are carried out on an arm's length basis.
During the year, the Group paid 0.3 million (2011: 0.2 million, 2010: 0.2 million) for accounting services to an entity which is considered to be a related party by virtue of it being jointly controlled by a director of AB Acquisitions Holdings Limited. The transaction was on an arm's length basis.
At 31 March 2012, Walvis Limited and Walvis 2 Limited owned 84.7 million (2011: 84.7 million) and 142.2 million (2011: 140.2 million) respectively of the principal of the Group's senior and subordinated facilities loans, Walvis 2 Limited having acquired 106.2 million (2011: 189.5 million) during the year. Walvis Limited and Walvis 2 Limited are both companies controlled by Dascoli Finance S.A.. S. Pessina is a director of Dascoli Finance S.A..
At 31 March 2012, the Group's cumulative investment in profit participating notes issued by Walvis Limited and Walvis 2 Limited was 55.0 million (2011: 55.0 million) and 99.9 million (2011: 99.9 million) respectively. During the year, 15.4 million (2011: 8.8 million, 2010: 0.8 million) of finance income was recorded in the income statement in relation to these notes, and the amount receivable at 31 March 2012 was 11.1 million (2011: 4.8 million). The carrying value of the profit participating notes at 31 March 2012 was 171.6 million (2011: 163.7 million).
During the year, the Group acquired 104.4 million (2011: 20.6 million) of the principal of the Group's senior facilities loans from Walvis 2 Limited.
At 31 March 2012, AF Lux Finance S.A. owned 30.0 million (2011: 30.0 million) of the principal of the Group's senior facilities bank loans. S. Pessina is a director of AF Lux Finance S.A.. During the year, 1.1 million (2011: 1.1 million, 2010: 1.1 million) of finance costs were recorded in the income statement as payable to AF Lux Finance S.A., of which nil (2011: nil) was outstanding at 31 March 2012.
During the year, Dascoli Finance S.A. invested 2,718 in a subsidiary of the Group. S. Pessina is a director of Dascoli Finance S.A..
In 2010, 1.6 million was paid to Capstone Europe Limited, an entity significantly influenced by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P., for management consultancy services. Of this amount, 0.6 million was expensed during the year ended 31 March 2011 (2010: 1.0 million).
 
53
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
Subsidiary undertakings
The Group's principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 March 2012, all of which are indirectly held, were:
 
Associates and joint venture
The Group's principal associates and joint venture at 31 March 2012 were:
 
All shares have the same voting rights, but no shareholder may exercise more than 20% of the votes.
1
 
54
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended 31 March 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 
The accounting reference dates of the principal associates and joint venture are 31 December with the exception of Alliance Healthcare Italia S.p.a. whose accounting reference date is 31 March.
Trading transactions with associates and joint ventures, all of which are carried out on an arm's length basis were:
 
 
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the management of Alliance Boots GmbH is required to make estimates and judgements. The matters described below are considered to be the most important in understanding the judgements that are involved in preparing these statements and the uncertainties that could impact the amounts reported in the results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The Group accounting policies are described in note 2.
Fair value measurement on a business combination
The measurement of fair values on a business combination requires the recognition and measurement of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. The key judgements involved are the identification and valuation of intangible assets which require the estimation of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
Impairment of intangible assets, including goodwill, and tangible assets
Following the acquisition of Alliance Boots plc in 2007/08, the Group has significant carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets, such as pharmacy licences, brands and customer relationships. Goodwill and other indefinite life intangibles, such as pharmacy licences and certain brands are held at cost and tested annually for impairment. Amortised intangible and tangible assets are tested for impairment where there are indications of impairment. The impairment tests involve estimation of future cash flows and the selection of suitable discount rates. These require an estimation of the value-in-use of the cash generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated (note 15).
Measurement of defined benefit scheme liabilities
The Group recognises and measures costs relating to defined benefit schemes in accordance with IAS 19, Employee Benefits. In applying IAS 19, the costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries. This requires the exercise of significant judgements in relation to the estimation of future changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, and the selection of suitable discount rates. Further detail is provided in note 36.
Revenue
In the Health & Beauty Division, reimbursement of dispensing revenue is initially estimated because the actual reimbursement is often not known until after the month of sale.
In respect of loyalty schemes, principally the Boots Advantage Card, liabilities are recorded to estimate the proportion of the points issued which will be redeemed by customers.
Supplier rebates
The recognition of supplier rebates may require estimation when the reporting year end is not coterminous with the end of the predetermined period over which the rebate is earned.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised in the year when it becomes probable that there will be a future outflow of funds resulting from past operations or events which can be reasonably estimated. The timing of recognition requires the application of judgement to existing facts and circumstances, which can be subject to change.
Estimates of the amounts of provisions recognised are based on current legal and constructive requirements, technology and price levels. Actual outflows can differ from estimates due to changes in laws, regulations, public expectations, technology, prices and conditions, and can take place many years in the future, and therefore the carrying amounts of provisions are regularly reviewed and adjusted to take account of such changes.
 
The Group's executive Directors play the leading role in internal controls, monitoring the overall risk profile and regularly reporting to the Board through the audit and risk committee. In addition, the Board through the executive Directors is responsible for determining clear policies as to what the Group considers to be acceptable levels of risk. These policies seek to enable people throughout the Group to use their expertise to identify risks that could undermine performance and to devise ways of bringing them within acceptable levels. Where risks are identified that are not acceptable, action plans are developed to mitigate them with clear allocation of responsibilities and timescales for completion, which ensures that progress towards implementing these plans is monitored and reported upon.
 
On 15 June 2012 the Group acquired the 20% holding of Alliance Healthcare Deutschland Holdings 1 GmbH previously owned by a fellow subsidiary owned by the Group's parent and ultimate controlling entity. Consideration was 27 million, which was satisfied by offset against a loan drawn down under a committed facility provided by a fellow subsidiary along with the interest due. Alliance Healthcare Deutschland Holdings 1 GmbH owns the Group's controlling shareholding in Andreae-Noris Zahn AG ("ANZAG"). A further 14.1% stake in ANZAG was acquired from unrelated third parties on 25 June 2012 for consideration of 40 million, taking the Group's total interest to 96.0%.
On 2 August 2012, Walgreen Co. completed the acquisition of a 45% equity stake in the Group, with an option to acquire the remaining 55% stake in approximately 3 years time. As part of this agreement, the Company made a commitment to distribute or otherwise transfer its subsidiary's investment in Galenica Ltd. and any related dividend distributions or proceeds to the selling shareholders at a future date without any payment.
 
55

Exhibit 99.2
The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements and related notes present the historical consolidated balance sheet and statements of earnings of the Company adjusted to reflect the Company's acquisition of 45% of the issued and outstanding share capital of Alliance Boots GmbH ("Alliance Boots"), in exchange for $4.0 billion in cash and 83.4 million shares of Walgreens common stock (the "first step transaction") and certain related financing transactions (together with the first step transaction, referred to as the "Transaction"). The pro forma adjustments related to the Transaction include:
 
The pro forma adjustments related to the Transaction do not reflect the offering of long-term debt financing or the use of any proceeds in connection therewith (including, without limitation, repayment of the bridge term loan). Moreover, the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information does not assume the exercise of the call option and accordingly does not give effect to the acquisition of the remaining 55% of Alliance Boots.
The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet gives effect to the Transaction as if it had occurred on May 31, 2012. The unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of earnings for the nine months ended May 31, 2012 and for the year ended August 31, 2011, give effect to the Transaction as if it had occurred on September 1, 2010, the first day of the Company's 2011 fiscal year.
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information included herein is derived from the Company's historical financial statements and those of Alliance Boots and is based on certain assumptions that we believe to be reasonable, which are described in the notes below. We have not completed a final valuation analysis necessary to determine the fair market values of all of Alliance Boots' assets and liabilities or the allocation of our purchase price between the investment and the call option. As described in note 3 below, the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information includes a preliminary allocation of the purchase price to reflect the fair value of those assets and liabilities.
The Company's fiscal year ends on August 31 and the Alliance Boots fiscal year ends on March 31. As the fiscal years differ by more than 93 days, financial information for Alliance Boots for the twelve month period ended September 30, 2011 and the nine months ended June 30, 2012 has been used in preparation of the pro forma financial statements. The Alliance Boots financial information for the twelve month period ended September 30, 2011 was derived by adding the unaudited consolidated income statement of Alliance Boots for the six month period ended September 30, 2011 to the audited consolidated income statement of Alliance Boots for the year ended March 31, 2011 and deducting the unaudited consolidated income statement of Alliance Boots for the six months ended September 30, 2010. The Alliance Boots financial information for the nine months ended June 30, 2012 was derived by adding the unaudited consolidated income statement of Alliance Boots for the three months ended June 30, 2012 to the audited consolidated income statement of Alliance Boots for the year ended March 31, 2012 and deducting the unaudited consolidated income statement of Alliance Boots for the six months ended September 30, 2011.
The unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of earnings for the nine months ended May 31, 2012, includes the unaudited consolidated statement of earnings of the Company for the nine months ended May 31, 2012, as adjusted to include the equity in earnings of Alliance Boots for the nine months ended June 30, 2012 and the impacts of the Transaction. The unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of earnings for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2011, includes the audited consolidated statement of earnings of the Company for the year ended August 31, 2011, as adjusted to include equity in earnings of Alliance Boots for the twelve months ended September 30, 2011 and the impacts of the Transaction.
 
 
The historical financial information of Alliance Boots was prepared in accordance with IFRS and prepared in British pounds sterling. The unaudited pro forma financial statements include adjustments to convert the financial statements of Alliance Boots from IFRS to US GAAP and to translate the British pounds sterling amounts into US dollars.
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments to give effect to pro forma events that are (1) directly attributable to the Transaction, (2) factually supportable, and (3) with respect to the statements of earnings, expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements. In addition, the unaudited pro forma financial statements and notes thereto should be read in conjunction with (1) the Company's audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended August 31, 2011, the Company's unaudited consolidated financial statements for the nine months ended May 31, 2012, and the notes relating thereto, the discussion under "Part II  Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2011 and the discussion under "Part I  Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2012, as amended, and (2) the audited consolidated financial statements of Alliance Boots for the years ended March 31, 2012, March 31, 2011 and March 31, 2010, and the notes relating thereto, contained in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 6, 2012, as amended by the Company's Form 8-K/A filed with the SEC on September 10, 2012.
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information is not intended to represent or be indicative of what the combined company's financial position or results of operations actually would have been had the Transaction been completed as of the dates indicated. In addition, the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information does not purport to project the future financial position or operating results of the combined company. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements do not include the impacts of any revenue, cost or other operating synergies that may result from the investment in Alliance Boots or any related one-time Transaction costs. One-time Transaction related costs of $84 million for financing, legal and other professional services were incurred through August 31, 2012 and additional costs are expected in fiscal 2013.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The investment in Alliance Boots will be accounted for using the equity method of accounting. The Company acquired its 45% investment in Alliance Boots through the payment of $4.0 billion in cash and the issuance of 83.4 million Company shares with a value of $3.0 billion based on the August 2, 2012 closing price of $35.75. As part of the investment, the Company received the call option, which allows it to acquire the remaining 55% in Alliance Boots in exchange for an additional 3.1 billion ($4.9 billion as of September 10, 2012) in cash as well as an additional 144.3 million Company shares, subject to certain specified adjustments. The call option can be exercised beginning six months prior to the third anniversary of the first step transaction (February 2, 2015) and ending on the third anniversary (August 2, 2015).
The following details the adjustments to the pro forma balance sheet:
 
 
 
 
As noted above, the transaction date fair value of $7.0 billion of consideration transferred, which consisted of a combination of cash and Company shares, was allocated to the equity method investment and call option. The preliminary allocation was based upon an independent appraisal of the preliminary fair values of the equity method investment and call option. The call option was valued using a Monte Carlo simulation using assumptions surrounding Walgreens equity value as well as the potential impacts of the certain provisions of the Purchase and Option Agreement dated June 18, 2012 by and among the Company, Alliance Boots and AB Acquisitions Holdings Limited that are described in the Form 8-K filed by the Company on June 19, 2012. The preliminary allocation resulted in $6.1 billion being allocated to the equity method investment and $0.9 billion being allocated to the call option based on their relative fair values.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet reflects the Company's equity investment in Alliance Boots, excluding Galenica and related amounts. Under the equity method of accounting, the net assets acquired in the purchase form the basis of the Company's investment in Alliance Boots. The difference between the Company's acquired net assets and its 45% basis in the total historical net assets of Alliance Boots is required to be allocated to the fair value of the net assets acquired in order to determine the amount of income from the equity method investment. The Company's investment is recorded as "Investment in Alliance Boots" in the unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet as follows:
 
 
 
The preliminary fair value adjustments to Other non-current assets: Intangible assets is comprised of definite lived intangible assets of $1.6 billion and indefinite lived intangible assets of $1.4 billion. The indefinite lived intangible assets are primarily related to certain trade names and pharmacy licenses. The definite lived intangible assets primarily relate to customer relationships.
 
 
The following table details the impact of these adjustments on the equity in earnings of Alliance Boots that the Company will reflect in its consolidated statements of earnings:
 
 
The final allocation of the purchase price will be determined at a later date and is dependent on a number of factors, including the final evaluation of the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. An independent third-party appraiser assisted in performing a preliminary valuation of these assets and the purchase price allocation will be adjusted upon a final valuation. The final purchase price allocation may result in a material change in the fair value of the net assets acquired and consequently in the value of non-amortizable goodwill recognized as part of the Company's investment in Alliance Boots. Any change in fair value adjustments, specifically any reallocation between definite and indefinite lived intangible assets, may result in a material change in the amortization shown above and, accordingly, in the Company's share of profit from its equity investment in Alliance Boots.
 
 
The following table reflects the adjustments made to the Alliance Boots unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of earnings for the nine months ended June 30, 2012 to convert from IFRS to US GAAP and from British pounds sterling to US dollars using an exchange rate of $1.58 per pound:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table reflects the adjustments made to the Alliance Boots consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended September 30, 2011 to convert from IFRS to US GAAP and from British pounds sterling to US dollars:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table reflects the adjustments made to the Alliance Boots consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2012 to convert from IFRS to US GAAP and from British pounds sterling to US dollars:
 
 
 
 
 
 
To finance a portion of the first step transaction, the Company entered into a $3.0 billion bridge term loan with various financial institutions. This pro forma adjustment related to the financing consists of the following:
 
 
The income tax benefit reflects the tax impact of adjustments to the unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of earnings which were tax affected at the combined U.S. federal and state statutory rate of 37.8% applied by the Company.
 
 
Pro forma earnings per share for the nine month period ended May 31, 2012 and the twelve month period ended August 31, 2011, have been recalculated to show the impacts of the Transaction on a constant diluted and basic outstanding share basis, assuming shares issued in connection with the Transaction have been outstanding at the beginning of both periods presented.
The following table presents pro forma earnings per share for the period ended May 31, 2012:
 
The following table presents earnings per share for the period ended August 31, 2011:
 
 
 


