FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20120806165839.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. .
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On August 2, 2012, Walgreen Co. (the "Company") completed the initial investment contemplated by the Purchase and Option Agreement dated June 18, 2012 by and among Walgreen Co., Alliance Boots GmbH ("Alliance Boots"), a private limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Switzerland and AB Acquisitions Holdings Limited (the "Seller"), a private limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Gibraltar jointly controlled by Stefano Pessina and funds advised by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. ("KKR") and certain of their respective affiliates (the "Purchase and Option Agreement"), which resulted in the acquisition by the Company of 45% of the issued and outstanding share capital of Alliance Boots in exchange for $4.025 billion in cash and approximately 83.4 million shares of Company common stock, par value $0.078125 per share ("Common Stock") (such acquisition, the "First Step Transaction"). A summary of the Purchase and Option Agreement was included in, and a copy of the Purchase and Option Agreement was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to, the Company's Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 19, 2012, and the foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to such Form 8-K.
In connection with the closing of the First Step Transaction, (i) the Company, KKR, KKR Sprint (European II) Limited, KKR Sprint (2006) Limited and KKR Sprint (KPE) Limited (the "KKR Investors"), Stefano Pessina and Alliance Sant Participations S.A. (together with Mr. Pessina, the "SP Investors") and certain other direct or indirect shareholders of Alliance Boots receiving Common Stock in the transaction (together with the KKR Investors and the SP Investors, the "Investors") entered into the Shareholders Agreement, dated as of August 2, 2012, described below, regarding, among other things, certain rights and obligations of KKR with respect to the Company and of the Investors as shareholders of the Company (the "Company Shareholders Agreement") and (ii) the Company, Alliance Boots and the Seller entered into the Shareholders' Agreement, dated as of August 2, 2012, described below, regarding, among other things, the ongoing governance of Alliance Boots following the closing of the First Step Transaction (the "AB Shareholders Agreement").
Company Shareholders Agreement.
The Company Shareholders Agreement provides, among other things, that for so long as the SP Investors and the KKR Investors continue to meet certain Common Stock beneficial ownership thresholds and subject to certain other conditions, the SP Investors and the KKR Investors, respectively, will each be entitled to designate one nominee (the "SP Investor Designee" and the "KKR Investor Designee", respectively) to the Board of Directors of the Company for inclusion in the Company's slate of directors. The SP Investors and the KKR Investors have agreed to, for so long as the SP Investors have the right to designate the SP Investor Designee (or Mr. Pessina continues to serve as Executive Chairperson or Chief Executive Officer of Alliance Boots) and for so long as the KKR Investors have the right to designate the KKR Investor Designee, respectively, vote all of their shares of Common Stock in accordance with the Company Board's recommendation on matters submitted to a vote of the Company's shareholders (including with respect to the election of directors). In addition, the Company Shareholders Agreement contains a lock-up provision that restricts the Investors' ability to transfer their shares of Common Stock for certain periods (subject to certain exceptions for permitted transfers) and certain other transfer restrictions. The Company Shareholders
Agreement also provides that, after the expiration of the lock-up restrictions, the Investors are permitted to transfer their shares of Common Stock, subject to certain volume limitations and certain other restrictions. The Company Shareholders Agreement provides the Investors with demand, "piggyback" and shelf registration rights with respect to the Investors' shares of Common Stock, which rights are exercisable after the expiration of the lock-up restrictions. The Company Shareholders Agreement also contains certain standstill provisions that, among other things, and subject to certain exceptions, prohibit Mr. Pessina, KKR and their respective affiliates from acquiring additional shares of Common Stock above specified limits. The Company Shareholders Agreement contains certain restrictions on the ability of Mr. Pessina and his affiliates from competing with the Company.
AB Shareholders Agreement.
The AB Shareholders Agreement provides that the Company will, among other things, be initially entitled to designate four directors to the Board of Directors of Alliance Boots, with such number of directors to be adjusted based on certain specified factors, including, among others, the Company's beneficial ownership of Alliance Boots. The AB Shareholders Agreement also provides that the Company and the Seller, as shareholders of Alliance Boots, will have certain approval rights over certain significant actions of Alliance Boots, and will be subject to certain transfer restrictions with respect to the Alliance Boots shares owned by the Company. The AB Shareholders Agreement also contains mutual non-competition arrangements between the Company and Alliance Boots.
The foregoing descriptions of the Company Shareholders Agreement and the AB Shareholders Agreement do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the Company Shareholders Agreement and the AB Shareholders Agreement filed as Exhibit 4.1 and 10.1, respectively, hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
The representations, warranties and covenants of each party set forth in the Company Shareholders Agreement and the AB Shareholders Agreement described in this Form 8-K have been made only for purposes of, were and are solely for the benefit of the parties to, the applicable agreement, may be subject to limitations agreed upon by the contracting parties, including being qualified by confidential disclosures made for the purposes of allocating contractual risk between the parties to such agreement instead of establishing these matters as facts, and may be subject to standards of materiality applicable to the contracting parties that differ from those applicable to investors. In addition, certain representations and warranties were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other date as is specified in such agreement. Moreover, information concerning the subject matter of the representations and warranties may change after the date of the applicable agreement, which subsequent information may or may not be fully reflected in the parties' public disclosures. Accordingly, the Company Shareholders Agreement and the AB Shareholders Agreement are included with this filing only to provide investors with information regarding the terms of those agreements, and not to provide investors with any other factual information regarding the parties, their respective affiliates or their respective businesses. The Company Shareholders Agreement and the AB Shareholders Agreement should not be read by themselves, but should be read in conjunction with the periodic and current reports and statements that the Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
. .
Item 2.01
Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
The disclosure in Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K is incorporated in this Item 2.01 by reference.
. .
Item 2.03
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
The disclosure in Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K is incorporated in this Item 2.03 by reference. The Company financed the cash consideration paid to complete the First Step Transaction using available cash and $3 billion in borrowings under the unsecured 364-Day Bridge Term Loan Agreement dated as of July 23, 2012, described in the Company's Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 26, 2012.
. .
Item 3.02
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
The issuance of approximately 83.4 million shares of Common Stock in connection with the closing of the First Step Transaction has not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act and rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. The offering was made only to the sole shareholder of Alliance Boots in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Purchase and Option Agreement, as described in Item 3.02 of the Company's Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 19, 2012.
. .
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(d) The disclosure in Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K is incorporated in this Item 5.02 by reference.
Effective upon the closing of the First Step Transaction on August 2, 2012, the Board of Directors of Walgreen Co. (the "Company") elected Stefano Pessina and Dominic Murphy to the Company's Board of Directors for a term continuing to the Company's next Annual Meeting of Shareholders in January 2013, when all directors will be subject to election by shareholders. Mr. Pessina is the SP Investor Designee and Mr. Murphy is the KKR Investor Designee for service on the Board of Directors pursuant to the Company Shareholders Agreement described in Item 1.01 above. Messrs. Pessina and Murphy have not been assigned to any Board committees. In connection with his election to the Company's Board of Directors, the Board of Directors waived with respect to Stefano Pessina the retirement age requirements set forth in paragraph 21 of the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines.
Stefano Pessina has served as Executive Chairman of Alliance Boots since July 2007, having previously served as its Executive Deputy Chairman. Prior to the merger of Alliance UniChem and Boots Group, Mr. Pessina was Executive Deputy Chairman of Alliance UniChem, previously having been its Chief Executive for three years up until December 2004. Mr. Pessina was appointed to the Alliance UniChem Board in 1997 when UniChem merged with Alliance Sant, the Franco-Italian pharmaceutical wholesale group which he established in Italy in 1977. Mr. Pessina also serves on the Board of Directors of Galenica AG, a publicly-traded Swiss healthcare group, and a number of private companies.
Dominic Murphy is a Partner of KKR. He is responsible for the development of KKR's activities in the United Kingdom and Ireland, is head of its healthcare industry team in Europe, is a director of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co., Ltd. (UK) and a member of the firm's European investment and portfolio management committees. He has served as a member of the Board of Alliance Boots and certain of its affiliates since 2007 and as a member of the Board of Ambea Holding AB, a healthcare and care services company serving the Nordic region of Europe, since 2010. Since joining KKR in 2005, he has played a significant role in the investments in Alliance Boots, Ambea AB and SBS Broadcasting Group. Mr. Murphy was formerly a Partner at Cinven Partners LLP, a European based private equity firm, from 1996 to 2004 and an investment manager with 3i Group plc, an international investment management firm, from 1994 to 1996. Mr. Murphy serves as a member of the Great Ormond Street Hospital Children's Charity Corporate Partnerships Board and of the National Portrait Gallery Development Council.
As described in more detail in Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K, the Company has completed its initial investment in Alliance Boots pursuant to the Purchase and Option Agreement. Following the completion of the First Step Transaction, Alliance Boots is directly or indirectly owned 45% by the Company and 55% by the Seller. Messrs. Pessina and Murphy serve on the Seller's Board of Directors, and the Seller was and remains jointly controlled by Mr. Pessina and funds advised by KKR and certain of their respective affiliates. Also as described in more detail in Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K, in connection with the closing of the First Step Transaction, (i) the Company, KKR, the KKR Investors, Mr. Pessina and Alliance Sant Participations S.A., and certain other direct or indirect shareholders of Alliance Boots entered into the Company Shareholders Agreement containing certain rights and obligations of the Investors with respect to the Company (including the election described above in this Item 5.02 of Mr. Murphy and Mr. Pessina to the Company's Board of Directors) and (ii) the Company, Alliance Boots and the Seller entered into the AB Shareholders' Agreement, governing certain matters with respect to the Company's and the Seller's ownership in Alliance Boots, respectively. In addition, as previously announced, following closing of the First Step Transaction it is expected that the Company and Alliance Boots and/or their respective affiliates may from time to time engage in commercial transactions and arrangements in connection with initiatives intended to help realize potential synergies across both companies.
Mr. Pessina's and Mr. Murphy's compensation for service as non-employee directors will be consistent with that of the Company's other non-employee directors, subject to proration to reflect the commencement date of their service on the Board. The non-employee director compensation program is described under the caption "Director Compensation" in the Company's proxy statement for its January 11, 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 18, 2011.
(e) The Company also announced that as of August 2, 2012, each of the Company's named executive officers (Gregory D. Wasson, Wade D. Miquelon, Kermit R. Crawford, Mark A. Wagner and Timothy J. Theriault) agreed to terminate his existing Change-of-Control Employment Agreement effective as of January 1, 2013 in order to have the opportunity to participate in the Walgreen Co. Executive Severance and Change in Control Plan (the "Plan") effective January 1, 2013. The Plan was described in, and a copy of the Plan was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to, the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 16, 2012.
. .
Item 5.03
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
Effective August 2, 2012, the Board of Directors of the Company amended Article III, Section 2 of the Company's By-laws to provide that the number of directors of the corporation shall be not less than nine nor more than fourteen. The foregoing description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Amended and Restated By-laws attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
. .
Item 8.01
Other Events
On August 2, 2012, the Company and Alliance Boots issued a joint press release announcing the completion of the First Step Transaction. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated in this Item 8.01 by reference.
Effective August 2, 2012, the Board of Directors of the Company also amended paragraph 12 of the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines to make a conforming change, consistent with the By-law amendment described above. The Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines, as amended, is available on the Company's investor relations website, at http://investor.walgreens.com/governance.cfm.
. .
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) .
Financial Statements of a Business Acquired
This Current Report on Form 8-K will be supplemented by amendment to provide the required financial statements not later than 71 days after the date that this Current Report on Form 8-K was required to be filed.
(b) .
Pro Forma Financial Information
This Current Report on Form 8-K will be supplemented by amendment to provide the required pro forma financial information not later than 71 days after the date that this Current Report on Form 8-K was required to be filed.
 
 
Statements in this report that are not historical are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expect," "likely," "outlook," "forecast," "would," "could," "should," "can," "will," "project," "intend," "plan," "goal," "continue," "sustain," "synergy," "on track," "believe," "seek," "estimate," "anticipate," "may," "possible," "assume," variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to vary materially from those indicated, including: risks that the transactions contemplated by the Purchase and Option Agreement, the Company Shareholders Agreement or the AB Shareholders Agreement disrupt plans and operations of either Walgreens or Alliance Boots, our ability to realize anticipated synergies, our ability to achieve anticipated financial results, the amount of costs, fees, expenses and charges incurred by Walgreens and Alliance Boots related to the transaction, the risks associated with international business operations, the risks associated with governance and control matters, whether the option to acquire the remainder of the Alliance Boots equity interest will be exercised and the financial ramifications thereof, our ability to timely arrange for and consummate permanent financing to replace the bridge facility on acceptable terms, changes in vendor, payer and customer relationships and terms, changes in network participation, and other factors described in Item 1A (Risk Factors) of our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as amended, each of which is incorporated herein by reference and in other documents that we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated or anticipated by such forward-looking statements. Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent required by law, Walgreens does not undertake, and expressly disclaims, any duty or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement after the date of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 3.1
EXECUTION VERSION
 
SECTION 1. The principal office of the corporation shall be located in the State of Illinois and the corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Illinois, as the business of the corporation may require from time to time.
Principal Offices.
SECTION 2. The registered office of the corporation required by The Business Corporation Act of the State of Illinois to be maintained in the State of Illinois may be, but need not be, identical with the principal office in the State of Illinois, and the address of the registered office may be changed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Registered Office.
SECTION 1. The annual meeting of the shareholders shall be held on the second Wednesday in January in each year, or such other day in January as the Board of Directors may designate, at a time set by the Chairman of the Board, for the purpose of electing directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting. If the day fixed for the annual meeting shall be a legal holiday, such meeting shall be held on the next succeeding business day. If the election of directors shall not be held on the day designated herein for any annual meeting, or at any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors shall cause the election to be held at a meeting of the shareholders as soon thereafter as may be convenient.
Annual Meeting.
SECTION 2. (a) Special meetings of the shareholders may be called by the Chairman of the Board, by the Chief Executive Officer, by the President, by the Board of Directors or by the holders of not less than one-fifth of all the outstanding shares of the corporation.
Special Meetings.
(b) Any shareholder of record seeking to have shareholders request a special meeting shall, by sending written notice to the secretary (the "Record Date Request Notice") by registered mail, return receipt requested, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date to determine the shareholders entitled to request a special meeting (the "Request Record Date"). The Record Date Request Notice shall set forth the information required by Article II, Section 16 of these By-laws, shall be signed by one or more shareholders of record as of the date of signature (or their agents duly authorized in a writing accompanying the Record Date Request Notice) and shall bear the date of signature of each such shareholder (or such agent). Upon receiving the Record Date Request Notice, the Board of Directors may fix a Request Record Date. The Request Record Date shall not precede and shall not be more than 10 days after the close of business on the date on which the resolution fixing the Request Record Date is adopted by the Board of Directors. If the Board of Directors, within 20 days after the date on which a valid Record Date Request Notice is received, fails to adopt a resolution fixing the Request Record Date and make a
 
public announcement of such Request Record Date, the Request Record Date shall be the close of business on the 10
th
day after the first date on which the Record Date Request Notice is received by the Secretary.
SECTION 3. The Board of Directors may designate any place, either within or without the State of Illinois, as the place of the meeting for any annual meeting or for any special meeting called by the Board of Directors. If no designation is made, or if a special meeting be otherwise called and the Board of Directors fails to designate the place of such meeting, the place of such meeting shall be the registered office of the corporation in the State of Illinois.
Places of Meeting.
SECTION 4. Written, printed or electronic notice stating the place, day and hour of the meeting, and in case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be delivered not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting or in the case of a merger, consolidation, share exchange, dissolution or sale, lease or exchange of assets not less than 20 days nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting, either personally, electronically or by mail, by or at the direction of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or the Secretary, or the officer or persons calling the meeting to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail, addressed to the shareholder at his or her address as it appears on the records of the corporation, with postage thereon prepaid.
Notice of Meetings.
SECTION 5. For the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders, or shareholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend, or in order to make a determination of shareholders for any other proper purpose, the Board of Directions of the corporation may fix in advance a date as the record date for any such determination of shareholders, such date in any case to be not more than 60 days and, for a meeting of shareholders, not less than 10 days, or in the case of a merger, consolidation, share exchange, dissolution or sale, lease or exchange of assets not less than 20 days, immediately preceding such meeting. If no record date is fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders, or shareholders entitled to receive payment of a dividend, the date on which notice of the meeting is mailed or the date on which the resolution of the Board of Directors declaring such dividend is adopted, as the case may be, shall be the record date for such determination of shareholders. When a determination of shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting of shareholders has been made as provided in this Section, such determination shall apply to any adjournment thereof.
Fixing of Record Date.
SECTION 6. The officer or agent having charge of the transfer books for shares of the corporation shall make, within twenty days after the record date for a meeting of shareholders or ten days before such meeting, whichever is earlier, a complete list of the shareholders entitled to vote at such meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, with the address of and the number of shares held by each, which list, for a period of ten days prior to such meeting, shall be kept on file at the registered office of the corporation and shall be subject to inspection by any shareholder and to copying at the shareholder's expense, at any time during usual business hours. Such list shall also be produced and kept open at the time and place of the meeting and shall be subject to the inspection of any shareholder during the whole time of the meeting. The original share ledger or transfer book, or any duplicate thereof kept in this State, shall be prima facie evidence as to
Voting Lists.
 
who are the shareholders entitled to examine such list or share ledger or transfer book or to vote at any meeting of shareholders.
SECTION 7. . A majority of outstanding shares entitled to vote on a matter, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of shareholders; provided that if less than a majority of the outstanding shares are represented at said meeting, a majority of the shares so represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice. In no event shall a quorum consist of less than one-third of the outstanding shares entitled to vote.
Quorum
If a quorum is present, the affirmative vote of the majority of the shares represented at the meeting and entitled to vote on a matter shall be the act of the shareholders, unless the vote of a greater number or voting by classes is required by The Business Corporation Act or the Articles of Incorporation of the corporation.
SECTION 8. . A shareholder may appoint a proxy to vote or otherwise act for him or her by signing an appointment form and delivering it to the person so appointed. No shareholder may name more than three persons as proxies to attend and vote the shareholder's share at any such meeting. Such proxy shall be filed with the Secretary of the corporation before or at the time of the meeting. No proxy shall be valid after eleven months from the date of its executing, unless otherwise provided in the proxy. Every proxy continues in full force and effect until revoked by the person executing it prior to the vote thereon, except to the extent such proxy is irrevocable. Such revocation may be affected by a writing delivered to the corporation stating that the proxy is revoked, or by a subsequent proxy executed by, or by attendance at the meeting and voting in person by, the person executing the proxy. The dates contained on the forms of the proxy presumptively determine the order of execution, regardless of the postmark dates on the envelopes in which they are mailed. Notwithstanding any provision contained in these By-laws, a shareholder may electronically transmit or authorize the electronic transmission of his or her proxy, if done as prescribed by law.
Proxies
SECTION 9. . Subject to the provisions of Section 11 of this Article, each outstanding share, regardless of class, shall be entitled to one vote upon each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of shareholders.
Voting of Shares
SECTION 10. Shares of the corporation held by the corporation in a fiduciary capacity may be voted and shall be counted in determining the total number of outstanding shares entitled to vote at a given time.
Voting of Shares by Certain Holders.
Shares registered in the name of another corporation, domestic or foreign, may be voted by any officer, agent, proxy or other legal representative authorized to vote such shares under the law of incorporation of such corporation. The corporation may treat the president or other person holding the position of chief executive officer of such other corporation as authorized to vote such shares, together with any other person indicated and any other holder of an office indicated by the corporate shareholder to the corporation as a person or an office authorized to vote such shares as the by-laws of such corporation may prescribe, or, in the absence of such provision, as the board of directors of such corporation may determine.
 
Shares registered in the name of a deceased person, a minor ward or person under legal disability, may be voted by his or her administrator, executor, or court appointed guardian, either in person or by proxy without a transfer of such shares into the name of such administrator, executor, or court appointed guardian. Shares registered in the name of a trustee may be voted by him or her, either in person or by proxy.
Shares registered in the name of a receiver may be voted by such receiver, and shares held by or under the control of a receiver may be voted by such receiver without the transfer thereof into his or her name if authority so to do is contained in an appropriate order of the court by which such receiver was appointed. A shareholder whose shares are pledged shall be entitled to vote such shares until the shares have been transferred into the name of the pledgee, and thereafter the pledgee shall be entitled to vote the shares so transferred.
SECTION 11. In all elections for directors, every shareholder shall have the right to vote, in person or by proxy, the number of shares owned by such shareholder, for as many persons as there are directors to be elected, or to cumulate such votes and give one candidate as many votes as shall equal the number of directors multiplied by the number of such shares, or to distribute such cumulative votes in any proportion among any number of candidates.
Cumulative Voting.
SECTION 12. Voting on any question or in any election may be viva voce unless the presiding officer shall order that voting be by ballot.
Voting by Ballot.
SECTION 13. . Any meeting of shareholders may be adjourned. Notice of the adjourned meeting or of the business to be transacted there, other than by announcement at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken, shall not be necessary, unless otherwise required by law. At an adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present or represented, any business may be transacted which could have been transacted at the meeting originally called.
Adjournments
SECTION 14. . The Board of Directors, in advance of any meeting of shareholders, may appoint one or more persons as inspectors to act at such meeting or any adjournment thereof. If inspectors of election are not so appointed, the person acting as chairman at any such meeting may, and on the request of any shareholder shall, make such appointment.
Inspectors of Election
The inspectors shall ascertain and report the number of shares represented at the meeting, based upon their determination of the validity and effect of proxies; count all votes and report the results; and do such other acts as are proper to conduct the election and voting with impartiality and fairness to all the shareholders.
Each report of an inspector shall be in writing and signed by him or her or by a majority of them if there is more than one inspector acting at such meeting. If there is more than one inspector, the report of a majority shall be the report of the inspectors. The report of the inspector or inspectors on the number of shares represented at the meeting and the results of the voting shall be prima facie evidence thereof.
SECTION 15. . (a) At any annual meeting of the shareholders of the corporation, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been brought before the meeting (i) pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting, (ii) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) by any shareholder of the corporation who (A) is a shareholder of record at
Notice of Annual Meeting Business
 
the time of giving notice provided for in this By-law and at the time of the annual meeting, (B) shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and (C) complies with the procedures set forth in this By-law. Clause (iii) shall be the exclusive means for a shareholder to submit business (other than matters properly brought under Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and included in the corporation's notice of meeting) before an annual meeting of shareholders.
(b) For business (other than nominations of directors by shareholders, which must be made in compliance with Article II, Section 15(c) of these By-laws, or matters properly brought under Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act and included in the corporation's notice of meeting) to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be delivered or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120
th
day and not later than the close of business on the 90
th
day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, to be timely, notice by the shareholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120
th
day prior to the date of such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90
th
day prior to the date of such annual meeting or, if the first Public Announcement of the date of such annual meeting is less than 100 days prior to the date of such annual meeting, the 10
th
day following the day on which Public Announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the corporation. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. To be in proper written form, a shareholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth in writing as to each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (i) as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made the Ownership Information and (ii) (A) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, and any material interest of such shareholder and beneficial owner, if any, in such business and (B) a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between such shareholder and beneficial owner, if any, and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such shareholder. The Chairman of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of this By-law, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting that any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this By-law, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this By-law.
(c) For nominations of directors to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120
th
day and not later than the close of business on the 90
th
day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date,
 
to be timely, notice by the shareholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120
th
day prior to the date of such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90
th
day prior to the date of such annual meeting or, if the first Public Announcement of the date of such annual meeting is less than 100 days prior to the date of such annual meeting, the 10
th
day following the day on which Public Announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the corporation. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. To be in proper form, a shareholder's notice to the Secretary must (i) set forth, as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made the Ownership Information; (ii) set forth, as to each person, if any, whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection to the Board of Directors (A) all information relating to such person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected) and (B) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between or among such shareholder and beneficial owner, if any, and their respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, and his or her respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including, without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Rule 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if the shareholder making the nomination and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is made, if any, or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the "registrant" for purposes of such rule and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant; and (iii) with respect to each nominee for election or reelection to the Board of Directors, include the completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Article II, Section 17 of these By-laws. The corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the corporation or that could be material to a reasonable shareholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee. Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 15(c) shall be eligible for election at an annual meeting of shareholders as directors of the corporation. The Chairman of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the provisions of this By-law, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this By-law, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this By-law.
(d) For purposes of Article II, Sections 15 and 16 of these By-laws, (i) Ownership Information is defined as (A) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, if any, (B) (i) the class or series and number of shares of the corporation which are, directly or indirectly, owned beneficially and of record by such shareholder and such beneficial owner, (ii) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or
 
mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of capital stock of the corporation or otherwise (a "Derivative Instrument") directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such shareholder and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the corporation, (iii) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which such shareholder has a right to vote any shares of any security of the corporation, (iv) any short interest in any security of the corporation (for purposes of Article II, Sections 15 and 16 of these By-laws, a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (v) any rights to dividends on the shares of the corporation owned beneficially by such shareholder that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the corporation, (vi) any proportionate interest in shares of the corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such shareholder is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner and (vii) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such shareholder is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of such shareholder's immediate family sharing the same household (which information shall be supplemented by such shareholder and beneficial owner, if any, not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date), and (C) any other information relating to such shareholder and beneficial owner, if any, that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal and/or for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (ii) Public Announcement is defined as disclosure in a press release reported by a national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
SECTION 16. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of shareholders at which directors are to be elected only (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any shareholder of the corporation who (i) is a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this By-law and at the time of the special meeting, (ii) is entitled to vote at the meeting, and (iii) complies with the notice procedures set forth in this By-law as to such nomination. In the event the corporation calls a special meeting of shareholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such shareholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the corporation's notice of meeting, if the shareholder's notice required by Article II, Section 15(c) of this By-law with respect to any nomination (including the completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Article II, Section 17) shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of
Notice of Special Meeting Business.
 
the corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120
th
day prior to the date of such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90
th
day prior to the date of such special meeting or, if the first Public Announcement of the date of such special meeting is less than 100 days prior to the date of such special meeting, the 10
th
day following the day on which Public Announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of a special meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. The corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the corporation or that could be material to a reasonable shareholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee. The Chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the By-laws, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this By-law, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section.
SECTION 17. . To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the corporation, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under Article II, Sections 15 and 16 of these By-laws) to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary upon written request) that such person (a) is not and will not become a party to (i) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been disclosed to the corporation or (ii) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, (b) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed therein, and (c) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the corporation, and will comply with all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the corporation.
Submission of Questionnaire, Representation and Agreement
SECTION 18. (a) In order that the corporation may determine the shareholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than 10 days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. Any shareholder of record seeking to have the shareholders authorize or
Action by Written Consent.
 
take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date. The Board of Directors shall promptly, but in all events within 10 days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors within 10 days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining shareholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date on which signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the corporation by delivery to its principal place of business or to any officer or agent of the corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of shareholders are recorded. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, the record date for determining shareholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the date on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
(b) Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each shareholder who signs the consent and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within 60 days of the record date established in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section 18, a written consent or consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take such action are delivered to the corporation in the matter prescribed in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(c) In the event of the delivery, in the manner provided by this Section, to the corporation of the requisite written consent or consents to take corporate action and/or any related revocation or revocations, the corporation shall engage nationally recognized independent inspectors of elections for the purpose of promptly performing a ministerial review of the validity of the consents and revocations. For the purpose of permitting a prompt ministerial review by the independent inspectors, no action by written consent without a meeting shall be effective until the earlier of (i) five business days following delivery to the corporation of consents signed by the holders of the requisite minimum number of votes that would be necessary to take such action, which delivery shall be accompanied by a certification by the shareholder of record (or his or her designee) who delivered, in accordance with paragraph (a) above, the written notice to the Secretary requesting the Board of Directors to fix a record date or (ii) such date as the independent inspectors certify to the corporation that the consents delivered to the corporation in accordance with this Article represent at least the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to take the corporate action. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the Board of Directors or any shareholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any consent or revocation thereof, whether during or after such five business day period, or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto.)
SECTION 1. . The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors.
General Powers
 
SECTION 2. The number of directors of the corporation shall be not less than nine nor more than fourteen. Within the limits above specified, the number of directors shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors or by resolution of the shareholders. Each director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of shareholders or until his or her successor shall have been elected. Directors need not be residents of Illinois or shareholders of the corporation. It shall be the policy of the corporation not to nominate as a director any person who has reached his or her seventy-second birthday, unless the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Company makes a finding that the nomination of the individual is in the best interests of the Company notwithstanding the individual's age, and that the nomination is also approved by all members of the Board of Directors.
Number, Tenure and Qualifications.
A director may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board of Directors, its Chairman or to the Chief Executive Officer or to the President or Secretary of the corporation. A resignation shall be effective when the notice is given, unless the notice specifies a future date.
SECTION 3. . A regular annual meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held without other notice than this by-law, immediately after, and at the same place as, the annual meeting of shareholders. The Board of Directors may provide, by resolution, the time and place, either within or without the State of Illinois, for the holding of additional regular meetings without other notice than such resolution; but if not so provided then such additional regular meetings may be convened in the same manner as provided in Section 4 of this Article in respect to special meetings.
Regular Meetings
SECTION 4. . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by or at the request of the Chairman of the Board or any two directors. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix any place, either within or without the State of Illinois, as the place for holding any special meeting of the Board of Directors called by them.
Special Meetings
SECTION 5. . Notice of any special meeting shall be given at least one day prior thereto if notice is given personally, at least two days prior thereto if notice is given by telegram or by a delivery service assuring delivery within twenty-four hours, or at least five days prior thereto if notice is given by mail. If notice is given by telegram, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when the telegram, addressed to the director at his or her business address, is delivered to the telegraph company. If notice is given by delivery service, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when delivered, so addressed, to delivery service company. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail addressed to the director at his or her business address, with postage thereon prepaid. Any director may waive notice of any meeting. The attendance of a director at any meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except where a director attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need to be specified in the notice of waiver of notice of such meetings.
Notice
SECTION 6. . A majority of the Board of Directors then in office, but in no event less than a majority of the minimum number of directors specified in Section 2 of this Article shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors, pro-
Quorum
 
vided that if less than a majority of the directors are present at said meeting, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice.
SECTION 7. . Except as provided in the Articles of Incorporation of the corporation, the act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors.
Manner of Acting
SECTION 8. . Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors and any directorship to be filled by reason of an increase in the number of directors or for any other reason may be filled by election at an annual meeting of shareholders, election at a special meeting of shareholders called for that purpose or by election by the Board of Directors at a regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors.
Vacancies
SECTION 9. A director of the corporation who is present at a meeting of Board of Directors at which action on any corporate matter is taken shall be conclusively presumed to have assented to the action taken unless his or her dissent is entered in the minutes of the meeting or unless such director shall file his or her written dissent to such action with the person acting as the secretary of the meeting before the adjournment thereof or shall forward such dissent by registered or certified mail to the Secretary of the corporation immediately after the adjournment of the meeting. Such right to dissent shall not apply to a director who voted in favor of such action.
Presumption of Assent.
SECTION 10. Any action required to be taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors, or any other action which may be taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors, may be taken without a meeting if a consent in writing setting forth the action so taken shall be signed by all the directors entitled to vote with respect to the subject matter thereof.
Informal Action by Directors.
SECTION 11. . Any meeting of the Board of Directors may be adjourned. Notice of the adjourned meeting or of the business to be transacted there, other than by announcement at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken, shall not be necessary. At an adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted which could have been transacted at the meeting originally called.
Adjournment
SECTION 12. . If a transaction is fair to the corporation at the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, the fact that a director of the corporation is directly or indirectly a party to the transaction shall not be grounds for invalidating the transaction.
Directors Conflict of Interest
SECTION 13. By the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office, and irrespective of any personal interest of any member of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors may establish reasonable compensation of all directors for services to the corporation as directors, officers or otherwise. No such establishment of reasonable compensation shall be deemed a director conflict of interest.
Compensation of Directors.
SECTION 1. . A majority of the directors may create one or more committees and appoint members of the Board of Directors to service on the committee or com-
Establishment of Committees
 
mittees. Each committee shall have two or more members, who serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of such committee. Any vacancy in a committee may be filled by the Board of Directors. Each committee shall keep regular minutes of its meetings and report the same to the Board of Directors as required.
SECTION 2. A majority of any committee shall constitute a quorum and a majority of a quorum shall be necessary for action by any committee. A committee may act by unanimous consent in writing without a meeting. The committee, by majority vote of its members, shall determine the time and place of meetings and the notice required therefore.
Manner of Action.
SECTION 3. . To the extent specified by resolution of the Board of Directors and these by-laws, each committee may exercise the authority of the Board of Directors, provided, however, a committee may not:
Authority of Committees
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 4. The Board of Directors may establish an Executive Committee. The Executive Committee, during intervals between meetings of the Board of Directors, shall have, and may exercise, subject to the limitations contained in Section 3 of this Article, the
Executive Committee.
 
powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the corporation.
SECTION 5. . The Board of Directors may establish a Compensation Committee consisting of directors who are not otherwise employed by the corporation. The Compensation Committee shall review, from time to time, the salaries, compensation and employee benefits of the officers and employees of the corporation and shall make recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning such matters.
Compensation Committee
SECTION 6. . The Board of Directors shall establish an Audit Committee consisting of directors who are not otherwise employed by the corporation. The Audit Committee shall appoint, compensate and evaluate the corporation's outside auditor employed to audit the financial statements of the corporation. The Audit Committee shall also consider recommendations made by the outside auditor, review the internal financial audits of the corporation, and report any additions or changes it deems advisable to the Board of Directors. The Committee shall conduct such other activities as may be required or appropriate.
Audit Committee
SECTION 7. . The Board of Directors may establish a Nominating and Governance Committee consisting of directors who are not otherwise employed by the corporation. The Nominating and Governance Committee shall consider matters related to corporate governance, develop general criteria regarding the selection and qualifications for members of the Board of Directors and shall recommend candidates for election to the Board of Directors.
Nominating and Governance Committee
SECTION 8. . The Board of Directors may establish a Finance Committee. The Finance Committee shall review major financial decisions of the corporation and shall make recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning such matters.
Finance Committee
SECTION 1. . The officers of the corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a President, and such Executive or Senior Vice Presidents and other Vice Presidents as the Board of Directors may from time to time elect or appoint, a Treasurer, a Controller, a General Auditor and a Secretary, and such Assistant Treasurers, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Controllers or other officers as may be from time to time elected or appointed by the Board of Directors. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
Number
SECTION 2. . The officers of the corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the first meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of shareholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as may be convenient. Each officer shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his or her death or until he or she shall resign or shall have been removed in the manner hereinafter provided. No officer shall be elected or re-elected after reaching sixty-five years of age.
Election and Term of Office
SECTION 3. . Any officer or agent of the corporation may be removed by the Board of Directors whenever in its judgment the best interests of the corporation will be served thereby,
Removal
 
but such removal shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed. Election or appointment of an officer or agent shall not of itself create contract rights.
SECTION 4. . A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification or otherwise, may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the term.
Vacancies
SECTION 5. . The Chairman of the Board may, but need not, be the Chief Executive Officer of the corporation. The Chief Executive Officer shall determine and administer the policies of the corporation, subject to the instructions of the Board of Directors.
Chief Executive Officer
Except where, by law, the signature of some other officer or agent of the corporation is required, the Chief Executive Officer may sign: certificates for shares of the corporation; any deeds, mortgages, bonds, leases concerning real and personal property both as landlord and as tenant; contracts and other instruments in furtherance of the business of the corporation, including instruments of guaranty as to any of such documents which may be executed by subsidiaries of the corporation; proxies on behalf of the corporation with respect to the voting of any shares of stock owned by the corporation; and assignments of shares of stock owned by the corporation. The Chief Executive Officer shall have the power to appoint such agents and employees as in the Chief Executive Officer's judgment may be necessary or proper for the transaction of the business of the corporation and to fix their compensation, all subject to the ratification of the Board of Directors.
The Chief Executive Officer shall submit to the Board of Directors, prior to the date of the annual meeting of shareholders, an annual report of the operations of the corporation and its subsidiaries, including a balance sheet showing the financial condition of the corporation and its subsidiaries consolidated as at the close of such fiscal year and statements of consolidated income and surplus. The Chief Executive Officer shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors from time to time.
SECTION 6. . The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors.
Chairman of the Board
SECTION 7. . The President shall be the Chief Operating Officer of the corporation and shall in general be in charge of the operations of the corporation. The President may, but need not, be the Chief Executive Officer.
President
Except where, by law, the signature of some other officer or agent of the corporation is required, the President or a Vice President may sign: certificates for shares of the corporation; any deeds, mortgages, bonds, leases concerning real and personal property both as landlord and as tenant; contracts or other instruments in furtherance of the business of the corporation, including instruments of guaranty as to any of such documents which may be executed by subsidiaries of the corporation; proxies on behalf of the corporation with respect to the voting of any shares of stock owned by the corporation; and assignments of shares of stock owned by the corporation. The President shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors from time to time.
 
SECTION 8. In the absence of the President or in the event of the President's inability or refusal to act, a Vice President, selected by the Board of Directors, shall perform the duties of the President, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President. Each Vice President may execute documents as provided in Section 7 of this Article and shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to such Vice President by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may designate one or more of the Vice Presidents as Executive or Senior Vice President with such additional duties as from time to time may be assigned by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or by the Board of Directors.
The Vice Presidents.
SECTION 9. . The Treasurer shall have the custody of all of the funds and securities of the corporation. When necessary and proper the Treasurer shall endorse, or authorize on behalf of the corporation the endorsement of, all checks, notes or other obligations and evidences of the payment of money, payable to the corporation or coming into the Treasurer's possession, and shall deposit the funds arising therefrom with all other funds of the corporation, coming into the Treasurer's possession, in such banks as may be selected as the depositories of the corporation, or properly care for them in such other manner as the Board of Directors may direct. Either alone or jointly with the Chief Executive Officer, the President or such other officers as may be designated by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall, except as herein otherwise provided, be authorized to sign all checks and other instruments drawn on or payable out of the funds of the corporation, and all bills, notes and other evidences of indebtedness of the corporation. Whenever required by the Board of Directors to do so, the Treasurer shall exhibit a complete and true statement of the Treasurer's cash account and of the securities and other property in the Treasurer's possession, custody or control. The Treasurer shall enter, or direct or cause to be entered, regularly in books belonging to the corporation and to be kept by the Treasurer for such purpose, a full and accurate account of all money received and paid by the Treasurer on account of the corporation, together with all other business transactions. The Treasurer shall, at all reasonable times within the hours of business, exhibit the Treasurer's books and accounts to any director. The Treasurer shall perform all duties which are incident to the office of the Treasurer of a corporation, subject, however, at all times to the direction and control of the Board of Directors. If the Board of Directors shall so require, the Treasurer shall give bond, in such sum and with such securities as the Board of Directors may direct, for the faithful performance of the Treasurer's duties and for the safe custody of the funds and property of the corporation coming into the Treasurer's possession.
The Treasurer
SECTION 10. . The Secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings of the Board of Directors, the minutes of all meetings of the committees of the Board of Directors, and the minutes of all the meetings of the shareholders, in books provided by the corporation for such purposes, and shall act as Secretary at all such meetings. The Secretary shall attend to the giving and serving of all notices of the corporation of meetings of the Board of Directors, committees of the Board of Directors and shareholders. The Secretary shall prepare all lists of shareholders and their addresses required to be prepared by the provisions of any present or future statute of the State of Illinois. The Secretary may sign with the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President, in the name of the corporation, all contracts and instruments and may affix the seal of the corporation thereto. The secretary shall have charge of such books and papers as the Board of Directors may direct. The Secretary shall have the authority to certify the By-laws, resolutions of the Board of Directors and the committees thereof, and other documents of the corpo-
The Secretary
 
ration as true and correct copies thereof. The Secretary shall, in general, perform all the duties which are incident to the office of Secretary of a corporation, subject at all times to the direction and control of the Board of Directors.
SECTION 11. The Controller shall be the principal accounting officer of the corporation and shall be in charge of all general and cost accounting books and records of the corporation, and shall see that all moneys due to the corporation, all disbursements and all properties and assets are properly accounted for. The Controller shall prepare the corporation's balance sheets, income accounts and other financial statements and reports, and render on a periodic basis a report covering the operations of the corporation for the month and year to date. The Controller shall perform all duties which are incident to the office of the Controller of a corporation, subject, however, at all times to control of the Board of Directors.
The Controller.
SECTION 12. . The General Auditor shall be responsible for the conduct of audits in order to determine that the corporation's accounting systems of internal checks and balances are properly designed and function so that the corporation's assets are being adequately protected. The General Auditor shall perform audits of any of the corporation's operations and accounting which will permit him or her to adequately discharge the General Auditor's responsibilities. The General Auditor shall render findings to the General Auditor's immediate superior and, in the event that in the General Auditor's opinion, proper corrective action is not being taken or the General Auditor is being denied free access to information needed to perform the General Auditor's duties, shall have the right, and it is the General Auditor's responsibility, to report this to the Chief Executive Officer of the corporation or directly to the Board of Directors.
General Auditor
SECTION 13. The Assistant Treasurers shall respectively, if required by the Board of Directors, give bonds for the faithful discharge of their duties in such sums and with such sureties as the Board of Directors shall determine. Each Assistant Treasurer, Assistant Secretary and Assistant Controller, in the absence or inability or refusal to act of the Treasurer, the Secretary or the Controller, as the case may be, may perform the duties of the office to which he or she is an assistant and in general shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the Treasurer, the Secretary or the Controller, respectively, or by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Board of Directors.
Assistant Treasurers, Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Controllers.
SECTION 14. . The Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board or the President or any Vice President, at any time and without any express authority of the Board of Directors may sign and execute all agreements to sell, purchase, lease or otherwise acquire stores or other property of, on behalf of, and for the corporation. The authority herein given by this paragraph shall not impair or restrict any authority, expressed, implied or otherwise, herein conferred upon any officer or officers.
Execution of Agreements
SECTION 15. . The salaries of the officers shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors and no officer shall be prevented from receiving such salary by reason of the fact that such officer is also a director of the corporation.
Salaries
 
SECTION 1. Each person who was or is a party, or is threatened to be made a party or called as a witness in any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative and any appeal thereof (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she is, was or agreed to become a director or officer of the corporation or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee, trustee, fiduciary or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee, trustee, fiduciary or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the Illinois Business Corporation Act, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expenses (including attorneys' fees and other expenses of litigation), judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee, trustee, fiduciary or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; , that, except as provided in Section 2 hereof, the corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the corporation. The right to indemnification conferred by this Article shall include the right to be paid by the corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition, including any appeal thereof; , that, if the Illinois Business Corporation Act requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to any employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the corporation of an undertaking, by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced unless it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is entitled to be indemnified under this Article or otherwise. The corporation may, by action of its Board of Directors, provide (a) indemnification to employees and agents of the corporation or others and (b) for such other indemnification of persons indemnified by this Article as it deems appropriate.
Right to Indemnification.
provided, however
provided however
SECTION 2. . If a claim under Section 1 of this Article is not paid in full by the corporation within thirty days after a written claim has been received by the corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting the claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the corporation) that indemnification of the claimant is prohibited by applicable law, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the corporation. Neither the failure of the cor-
Right of Claimant to Bring Suit
 
poration (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its shareholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances, nor an actual determination by the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its shareholders) that indemnification of the claimant is prohibited by applicable law, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that indemnification of the claimant is prohibited by applicable law.
SECTION 3. The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Article shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the corporation's Articles of Incorporation, By-laws, agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in such person's official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office.
Non-Exclusivity of Rights.
SECTION 4. . The corporation may purchase and maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any person who is or was a director, officer, employee, fiduciary, trustee or agent of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee, or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including employee benefit plans) against any liability asserted against such person and incurred by such person in any such capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such liability under the Illinois Business Corporation Act.
Insurance
SECTION 5. The corporation shall report in writing to shareholders any indemnity or advanced expenses paid to a director, officer, employee or agent with or before the notice of the next shareholders' meeting.
Report to Shareholders.
SECTION 6. CThe provisions of this Article shall be applicable to all proceedings commenced or continuing after its adoption, whether such arise out of events, acts or omissions which occurred prior or subsequent to such adoption, and shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer or a person serving at the request of the corporation as a director, trustee, fiduciary, employee, agent or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs of such person. This Article shall be deemed to be a contract between the corporation and each person who, at any time that this Article is in effect, serves or agrees to serve in any capacity which entitles him to indemnification hereunder and any repeal or other modification of this Article or any repeal or modification of the Illinois Business Corporation Act or any other applicable law shall not limit any rights of indemnification for proceedings then existing or later arising out of events, acts or omissions occurring prior to such repeal or modification, including, without limitation, the right to indemnification for proceedings commenced after such repeal or modification to enforce this Article with regard to proceedings arising out of acts, omissions or events occurring prior to such repeal or modification.
ontractual Nature.
SECTION 7. If any portion of this Article shall be invalidated or held to be unenforceable on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of which shall not have been reversed on appeal, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the other provis-
Severability.
 
ions hereof, and this Article shall be construed in all respects as if such invalid or unenforceable provisions had been omitted therefrom.
SECTION 1. . The Board of Directors may authorize any officer or officers, agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the corporation, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
Contracts
SECTION 2. The Board of Directors may appoint one or more persons who may severally be authorized by the Board of Directors to sign checks, drafts, or orders for the payment of money and any or all of whom may be further authorized by the Board of Directors, in its discretion, to authorize other individuals to sign checks, drafts, or orders for the payment of money.
Checks, Drafts, and Orders for the Payment of Money.
SECTION 3. The Board of Directors may appoint one or more persons who may severally be authorized by the Board of Directors to select and designate as a depository of and for the moneys and funds of the corporation such bank or banks as such person may from time to time determine; and the said person or persons so authorized by the Board of Directors may further be authorized severally to terminate and cancel the designation of any bank or banks as a depository of this corporation.
Deposits.
SECTION 1. . The shares of the corporation may be uncertificated or may be represented by certificates signed by the Chairman of the Board or Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President and the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary and sealed with the seal of the corporation. Such seal may be a facsimile. Where such certificate is countersigned by a transfer agent other than the corporation itself or an employee of the corporation, or by a transfer clerk and registered by a registrar, the signatures of the Chairman of the Board or Chief Executive Officer, the President or Vice President and the Secretary or Assistant Secretary upon such certificate may be facsimiles, engraved or printed. In case any officer who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon such certificate shall have ceased to be such officer before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if such officer had not ceased to be such at the date of its issue. All certificates for shares shall be consecutively numbered or otherwise identified. The name of the person to whom the shares represented thereby are issued, with the number of shares and date of issue, shall be entered on the books of the corporation. The Board of Directors of the corporation may provide by resolution that some or all of any or all classes and series of its shares shall be uncertificated shares, provided that such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the corporation. Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated shares, the corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to this Section 1. Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares and rights and obligations of the holders of certificates representing shares of
Certificates for Shares
 
the same class and series shall be identical. All certificates surrendered to the corporation for transfer shall be canceled and no new certificate or uncertificated shares shall be issued until the former certificate for a like number of shares shall have been surrendered and canceled, except that in case of a lost, destroyed or mutilated certificate a new one may be issued therefore upon such terms and indemnity to the corporation as the Board of Directors may prescribe.
SECTION 2. . Transfer of shares of the corporation shall be made only on the books of the corporation by the holder of record thereof or by his or her legal representative, who shall furnish proper evidence of authority to transfer, or by his or her attorney thereunto authorized by the power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary of the corporation, and on surrender for cancellation of the certificate for such shares. The person in whose name shares stand on the books of the corporation shall be deemed the owner thereof for all purposes as regards the corporation.
Transfer of Shares
SECTION 3. The Board of Directors may from time to time appoint such Transfer Agents and Registrars in such locations as it shall determine, and may, in its discretion, appoint a single entity to act in the capacity of both Transfer Agent and Registrar in any one location.
Transfer Agent and Registrar.
The fiscal year of the corporation shall begin on the first day in September in each year and shall end on the succeeding thirty-first day of August.
The Board of Directors may from time to time declare and the corporation may pay dividends on its outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by law and its Articles of Incorporation.
The Board of Directors shall provide a corporate seal which shall be in the form of a circle and shall have inscribed thereon the name of the corporation and the words "Corporate Seal, Illinois".
Whenever any notice whatever is required to be given under the provisions of these By-laws or under the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation or under the provisions of The Business Corporation Act of the State of Illinois, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice.
 
SECTION 1. These By-laws may be altered, amended or repealed and new By-laws may be adopted at any meeting of the Board of Directors of the corporation by a majority vote of the directors present at the meeting, subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 2 of the Article.
By Directors.
SECTION 2. These By-laws may be altered, amended or repealed by new by-laws may be adopted by the shareholders at any annual meeting, or at any special meeting called for such purpose. If such By-law so provides, a By-law adopted by the shareholders may not be altered, amended or repealed by the Board of Directors.
By Shareholders.
 

EXHIBIT 4.1
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexes, Schedules and Exhibits
 
 
SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT, dated as of August 2, 2012 (this ""), among (i) Walgreen Co., an Illinois corporation (the ""), (ii) Stefano Pessina (""), (iii) KKR Sprint (European II) Limited, KKR Sprint (2006) Limited and KKR Sprint (KPE) Limited, each of which is an exempted limited company organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands (each an "" and collectively, the ""), (iv) Alliance Sant Participations S.A., a organized under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg (together with SP, the "" and the Initial SP Investors, together with the Initial KKR Investors, the ""), (v) each of the Persons becoming a party to this Agreement as an "Initial Other Investor" by executing a joinder to this Agreement pursuant to the terms herein and Section 7.16 of the Purchase Agreement (each Person described in this clause (v), an "" and, together with the Initial Primary Investors, the ""), and (vi) Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("").
Agreement
Company
SP
Initial KKR Investor
Initial KKR Investors
socit anonyme
Initial SP Investors
Initial Primary Investors
Initial Other Investor
Initial Investors
KKR
WHEREAS, on June 18, 2012, the Company, Alliance Boots GmbH, a private limited liability company incorporated under and governed by the laws of Switzerland, having its registered office at Baarerstrasse 94, CH 6300 Zug, Switzerland and registered in the Register of Commerce of the Canton of Zug under No. CH-170.4.007-953-1 (""), and AB Acquisitions Holdings Limited, a private limited liability company incorporated under and governed by the laws of Gibraltar, having its registered office at 57/63 Line Wall Road, Gibraltar and registered under No. 98476 (""), entered into a Purchase and Option Agreement (as it may be amended from time to time, the "") pursuant to which, among other things, the Company (or a wholly owned Affiliate designee thereof) (i) on the date hereof purchased from Gibco the First Step Company Shares and (ii) may, following the exercise, if applicable, by the Company (or a wholly owned Affiliate designee thereof) of the Call Option during the Call Exercise Period, subject to the terms and conditions of the Purchase Agreement, purchase from Gibco the Second Step Company Shares;
AB
Gibco
Purchase Agreement
WHEREAS, pursuant to and subject to the terms and conditions of the Purchase Agreement, as soon as practicable after the First Step Closing, Gibco will deliver to the Initial Investors (in accordance with their respective entitlements thereto) cash and shares ("") of common stock, par value $0.078125 per share, of the Company (""), which cash and First Step Walgreens Shares were delivered to Gibco by the Company (or a wholly owned Affiliate designee thereof) as the First Step Purchase Price;
First Step Walgreens Shares
Company Common Stock
WHEREAS, pursuant to and subject to the terms and conditions of the Purchase Agreement, at the Second Step Closing, if applicable, the Company (or a wholly owned Affiliate designee thereof) will deliver to Gibco cash and shares ("" and, together with the First Step Walgreens Shares, the "") of Company Common Stock as the Second Step Purchase Price in respect of the Second Step Company Shares, and, as soon as practicable after the Second Step Closing, Gibco will deliver such cash to the Investors (in accordance with their respective entitlements thereto) and, as soon as practicable after the date that is nine (9) months or twelve (12) months, as applicable and pursuant to Section 7.16 of the Purchase Agreement, after the Second Step Closing, other than in the case of Second Step Walgreens Shares previously distributed as expressly permitted under Section 7.16 of the Purchase
Second Step Walgreens Shares
Shares
Agreement, Gibco will deliver the Second Step Walgreens Shares to the Investors (in accordance with their respective entitlements thereto);
WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with Section 7.16 of the Purchase Agreement, as a condition precedent to receiving any Shares from Gibco, the Initial Investors have agreed, or hereafter shall agree (but in any case prior to receiving any Shares from Gibco), to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, each of the parties hereto wishes to set forth in this Agreement certain terms and conditions regarding the Investors' ownership of the Shares.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants, representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Agreement, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:
1.1 . On the date hereof, (i) the Company's board of directors (the "") shall take (or has taken) all action necessary and appropriate (including by amending the bylaws of the Company, if necessary) to cause the number of directors on the Board to be increased by two and (ii) the Board shall appoint (1) SP and (2) Dominic Murphy ("") to the Board.
Composition of the Board of Directors at the Closing
Board
DM
1.2 .
Continuing Composition of the Board of Directors
(a) Following the First Step Closing and until an SP Investor Rights Termination Event or KKR Investor Rights Termination Event, as applicable, subject to the other provisions of this Section 1.2, including Section 1.2(b), and Section 1.3, at each annual or special meeting of the shareholders of the Company at which directors are to be elected to the Board, the Company will nominate and use its reasonable best efforts (which shall, subject to Applicable Law, include including in any proxy statement used by the Company to solicit the vote of its shareholders in connection with any such meeting the recommendation of the Board that shareholders of the Company vote in favor of the slate of directors) to cause the election to the Board of a slate of directors which includes (i) one SP Investor Designee (prior to an SP Investor Rights Termination Event) and (ii) one KKR Investor Designee (prior to a KKR Investor Rights Termination Event).
(b) The SP Investors shall notify the Company of the identity of the proposed SP Investor Designee, in writing, on or before the time such information is reasonably requested by the Board or the Nominating and Governance Committee for inclusion in a proxy statement for a meeting of shareholders, together with all information about the proposed SP Investor Designee as shall be reasonably requested by the Board or the Nominating and Governance Committee (including, at a minimum, any information regarding the proposed SP Investor Designee to the extent required by applicable securities laws or for any other person nominated for election to the Board). Notwithstanding the foregoing, for so long as SP is serving as
 
Executive Chairperson or Chief Executive Officer of AB or, notwithstanding the absence of either such title, remains actively involved in an operational and management capacity in the business activities and operational decisions of AB, Walgreens or their respective subsidiaries: (i) it is hereby acknowledged and agreed that the SP Investor Designee shall be SP; (ii) the SP Investors irrevocably waive any right to designate any other individual as the SP Investor Designee; and (iii) SP agrees to serve, when appointed and if, as and when re-elected, as the SP Investor Director. In furtherance of the foregoing, effective from the date hereof and until an SP Investor Rights Termination Event, the Company hereby waives, and, subject to Applicable Law, agrees to take all necessary and appropriate action to continue to waive, in respect of SP, any mandatory retirement age policy otherwise applicable to membership on the Board.
(c) The KKR Investors shall notify the Company of the identity of the proposed KKR Investor Designee, in writing, on or before the time such information is reasonably requested by the Board or the Nominating and Governance Committee for inclusion in a proxy statement for a meeting of shareholders, together with all information about the proposed KKR Investor Designee as shall be reasonably requested by the Board or the Nominating and Governance Committee (including, at a minimum, any information regarding the proposed KKR Investor Designee to the extent required by applicable securities laws or for any other person nominated for election to the Board).
(d) Subject to Section 1.2(b) and Section 1.3, so long as no SP Investor Rights Termination Event or KKR Investor Rights Termination Event has occurred, as applicable, in the event of the death, disability, removal or resignation of the SP Investor Director or KKR Investor Director, the Board will promptly appoint as a replacement SP Investor Director or KKR Investor Director, as applicable, the SP Investor Designee designated by the SP Investors or the KKR Investor Designee designated by the KKR Investors, as applicable, to fill the resulting vacancy, and such individual shall then be deemed an SP Investor Director or KKR Investor Director, as applicable, for all purposes hereunder; , that, for the avoidance of doubt and notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, without limiting the rights of the SP Investors and KKR Investors, as applicable, under this Section 1.2 with respect to subsequent annual or special meetings of the shareholders of the Company at which directors are to be elected to the Board, neither the Company nor the Board shall be under any obligation to appoint any SP Investor Director (including, for the avoidance of doubt, SP) to the Board or any KKR Investor Director to the Board, as applicable, in the event of the failure of an SP Investor Designee or a KKR Investor Designee, as applicable, to be elected to the Board at any annual or special meeting of the shareholders of the Company at which such SP Investor Designee or such KKR Investor Designee, as applicable, stood for election but was nevertheless not elected. So long as no SP Investor Rights Termination Event or no KKR Investor Rights Termination Event, as applicable, has occurred, the Board will not remove the SP Investor Director or the KKR Investor Director without the prior written consent of the SP Investors or the KKR Investors, respectively, unless the SP Investor Director or the KKR Investor Director, as applicable, is no longer eligible for designation as a member of the Board pursuant to Section 1.3.
provided
(e) The Company will at all times provide the SP Investor Director, including, for the avoidance of doubt, SP (in his or her capacity as a member of the Board) and the KKR Investor Director (in his or her capacity as a member of the Board) with the same rights to indemnification and exculpation that it provides to the other members of the Board. The
 
Company acknowledges and agrees that any such indemnification obligations to indemnify or advance expenses to the SP Investor Director or the KKR Investor Director, as applicable, in his or her capacity as such, for the matters covered by such indemnification obligations shall be the primary source of indemnification and advancement of such SP Investor Director and KKR Investor Director, as applicable, in connection therewith, and any obligation on the part of any Investor Indemnitor under any Investor Indemnification Agreement to indemnify or advance expenses to such SP Investor Director or KKR Investor Director shall be secondary to the Company's obligation and shall be reduced by any amount that such SP Investor Director or KKR Investor Director may collect as indemnification or advancement from the Company. In the event that the Company fails to indemnify or advance expenses to the SP Investor Director or KKR Investor Director as required by such indemnification obligations and this Agreement (such unpaid amounts, the ""), and any Investor Indemnitor makes any payment to such SP Investor Director or KKR Investor Director in respect of indemnification or advancement of expenses under any Investor Indemnification Agreement on account of such Unpaid Indemnitee Amounts, such Investor Indemnitor shall be subrogated to the rights of such SP Investor Director or KKR Investor Director, as applicable, under this Agreement in respect of such Unpaid Indemnitee Amounts.
Unpaid Indemnitee Amounts
1.3 . Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article I, the SP Investors will not be entitled to designate any SP Investor Designee (or, for the avoidance of doubt, any SP Investor Director, including SP), and the KKR Investors will not be entitled to designate any KKR Investor Designee (or, for the avoidance of doubt, any KKR Investor Director) to, the Board pursuant to this Article I in the event that the Board reasonably determines that (i) the election of such SP Investor Designee (including, for the avoidance of doubt, SP) or such KKR Investor Designee, as applicable, to the Board would cause the Company to not be in compliance with Applicable Law, (ii) such SP Investor Designee (including, for the avoidance of doubt, SP) or such KKR Investor Designee, as applicable, has been involved in any of the events enumerated in Item 2(d) or (e) of Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act or Item 401(f) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act or is subject to any order, decree or judgment of any Governmental Authority prohibiting service as a director of any public company or (iii) such SP Investor Designee or such KKR Investor Designee, as applicable, is not reasonably acceptable to the Board or Nominating and Governance Committee; , that for the purposes of this clause (iii): (A) SP shall be deemed to be acceptable to the Board and Nominating and Governance Committee for so long as (x) this Agreement remains in effect and (y) (1) the SP Investors are required to designate SP as the SP Investor Designee pursuant to Section 1.2(b) and (2) none of the circumstances set forth in clauses (i) or (ii) of this sentence shall be applicable with respect to SP; and (B) DM shall be deemed to be acceptable to the Board and the Nominating and Governance Committee for so long as (x) this Agreement remains in effect and (y) (1) DM remains employed by any of the KKR Investors or their Affiliates and (2) none of the circumstances set forth in clauses (i) or (ii) of this sentence shall be applicable with respect to DM. In any such case described in clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) of the immediately preceding sentence, the SP Investors or the KKR Investors, as applicable, will withdraw the designation of such proposed SP Investor Designee or KKR Investor Designee, as applicable, and, so long as no SP Investor Rights Termination Event or KKR Investor Rights Termination Event has occurred, as applicable, be permitted to designate a replacement therefor (which replacement SP Investor Designee or KKR Investor Designee, as applicable, will also be subject to the requirements of this Section 1.3).
Objection to Investor Designee
provided
 
1.4 .
No Adverse Action; Voting Agreement
(a) Until the occurrence of any SP Investor Rights Termination Event or KKR Investor Rights Termination Event, as applicable, without the prior consent of the SP Investors or the KKR Investors, as applicable, except as required by Applicable Law, the Company shall not take any action to cause the amendment of its charter or bylaws such that the SP Investors' rights or the KKR Investors' rights, respectively, under this Article I would not be given effect; , that, for the avoidance of doubt, the foregoing shall not prohibit any increase or decrease in the size of the Board.
provided
(b) Until (i) with respect to the SP Investors' obligations hereunder, the later to occur of (A) no SP Investor Director serving as a director on the Board (and the SP Investors either no longer having any rights under this Article I to designate any SP Investor Designee to serve on the Board or irrevocably waiving any such rights) and (B) SP no longer serving as Executive Chairperson or Chief Executive Officer of AB and, notwithstanding the absence of either such title, no longer being actively involved in an operational and management capacity in the business activities and operational decisions of AB, Walgreens or their respective subsidiaries, and (ii) with respect to the KKR Investors' obligations hereunder, no KKR Investor Director serving as a director on the Board (and the KKR Investors either no longer having any rights under this Article I to designate any KKR Investor Designee to serve on the Board or irrevocably waiving any such rights), each SP Investor and KKR Investor, respectively, agrees to cause each Voting Security Beneficially Owned by it to be voted (including, if applicable, through the execution of one or more written consents if shareholders of the Company are requested to vote through the execution of an action by written consent in lieu of any such annual or special meeting of shareholders of the Company): (x) in favor of all those persons nominated to serve as directors of the Company by the Board or the Nominating and Governance Committee and (y) with respect to any other action, proposal or other matter to be voted upon by the shareholders of the Company (including through action by written consent), in accordance with the recommendation of the Board.
(c) For so long as it is subject to the voting requirements of Section 1.4(b), each KKR Investor hereby appoints the Chairman of the Board of the Company and any designee thereof, and each of them individually, its proxy and attorney-in-fact, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, to vote or act by written consent during the term of this Agreement with respect to shares of Company Common Stock in accordance with Section 1.4(b). This proxy and power of attorney is given to secure the performance of the duties of such Investor under this Agreement. Each KKR Investor hereby agrees that it shall take such further action or execute such other instruments as may be necessary to effectuate the intent of this proxy; this proxy and power of attorney granted by such KKR Investor, shall be irrevocable during the term of this Agreement (but subject to Section 1.4(b)), shall be deemed to be coupled with an interest sufficient under Applicable Law to support an irrevocable proxy and shall revoke any and all prior proxies granted by such KKR Investor with respect to shares of Company Common Stock. The power of attorney granted by each KKR Investor herein is a durable power of attorney and shall survive the dissolution, bankruptcy, death or incapacity of such KKR Investor.
 
(d) For so long as it is subject to the voting obligations of Section 1.4(b), each SP Investor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees, no later than ten Business Days after any definitive proxy statement (which definitive proxy statement shall include a form of proxy) is mailed to the shareholders of the Company in connection with the solicitation of any proxy, it shall return a duly dated and signed form of proxy on which it shall (i) appoint as its proxy the Chairman of the Board of the Company (and/or such other person(s) as the Company shall propose for appointment as proxy) to vote all of the shares of Company Common Stock Beneficially Owned by it and (ii) direct the proxy so appointed to vote such shares (x) in favor of all those persons nominated to serve as directors of the Company by the Board and (y) with respect to any other action, proposal or other matter to be voted upon, in accordance with the recommendation of the Board. Each SP Investor irrevocably undertakes not to revoke such proxy or to deliver any proxy dated as of a later date, unless otherwise requested to do so, in writing, by the Company. As used in this Section 1.4(d), the terms "proxy statement", "proxy", "form of proxy" and "solicitation" shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act.
1.5 . Promptly upon the occurrence of any SP Investor Rights Termination Event or KKR Investor Rights Termination Event, as applicable, all obligations of the Company with respect to the SP Investors and any SP Investor Director or SP Investor Designee (including SP) pursuant to this Article I, or with respect to the KKR Investors and any KKR Investor Director or KKR Investor Designee pursuant to this Article I, respectively, shall forever terminate and unless otherwise consented to by a majority of the members of the Board (in each case, excluding the SP Investor Director and the KKR Investor Director, if any) (a) with respect to an SP Investor Rights Termination Event, the SP Investors shall cause the SP Investor Director to, and (b) with respect to a KKR Investor Rights Termination Event, the KKR Investors shall cause the KKR Investor Director to, immediately resign from the Board.
Termination of Board Designation Rights
1.6 .
Information Rights
(a) Subject to Section 1.6(c), prior to an SP Investor Rights Termination Event, the Company and its subsidiaries will prepare and provide, or cause to be prepared and provided, to SP (in his capacity as the SP Investor Director), for so long as SP is the SP Investor Director any materials prepared for or given to any other member of the Board (excluding the Chief Executive Officer), and such other business, financial and operational information relating to the Company as may be available to the Company's senior management and reasonably requested by SP including, as promptly as practicable following the end of each month (and in any event substantially at the same time as such materials are provided to other recipients), the Monthly Operating Performance Material reporting package, in substantially the same form currently prepared (with such changes as may be approved from time to time by the Company).
(b) Subject to Section 1.6(c), prior to a KKR Investor Rights Termination Event, the Company and its subsidiaries will prepare and provide, or cause to be prepared and provided, to the KKR Investor Director (in his or her capacity as such), if any, any information relating to the management, operations and finances of the Company and its subsidiaries as and when generally provided to Directors of the Company or as and when reasonably requested by the KKR Investor Director.
 
(c) In furtherance of and not in limitation of any other similar agreement such party or any of its Representatives may have with the Company or its subsidiaries or the AB Group, each of the Investors, SP and KKR hereby agrees that all Confidential Information with respect to the Company shall be kept confidential by it and shall not be disclosed by it in any manner whatsoever, except as permitted by this Section 1.6(c). Any Confidential Information may be disclosed:
(i) by an Investor, SP or KKR (w) to each other and each other's respective directors, managers, officers, employees and authorized representatives (including attorneys, accountants, consultants, bankers and financial advisors thereof), but only for so long as both SP and a KKR Investor Director serve as directors on the Board, (x) to any of its Affiliates, (y) to such Investor's or such Affiliate's respective directors, managers, officers, employees and authorized representatives (including attorneys, accountants, consultants, bankers and financial advisors thereof) and (z) in the case of any KKR Investor that is a limited partnership, limited liability company or other investment vehicle, to any current or prospective direct or indirect general partner, limited partner, member, equityholder or management company of such KKR Investor or any former direct or indirect general partner, limited partner, member, equityholder or management company which retained an economic interest in such KKR Investor (or any employee, attorney, accountant, consultant, banker or financial advisor or representative of any of the foregoing) (each of the Persons described in clause (z), collectively, "" and each of the Persons described in clauses (x), (y) and (z) (but, for the avoidance of doubt, not those described in clause (w)), collectively, for purposes of this Section 1.6(c) and the definition of Confidential Information, ""), in each case, solely if and to the extent any Representative needs to be provided such Confidential Information to assist such Investor, SP or KKR (as the case may be) (or its Affiliates or, in the case of the KKR Investors, any KKR Related Persons, as applicable) in evaluating or reviewing its existing or prospective direct or indirect investment in the Company, including in connection with the disposition thereof, and each Representative of an Investor, SP or KKR (as the case may be) shall be deemed to be bound by the provisions of this Section 1.6(c) (, that with respect to KKR Related Persons, such Persons shall instead be deemed to be bound by any confidentiality agreement or obligation to which such Person is a party or is otherwise bound, which has restrictions substantially similar to this Section 1.6(c)) and such Investor, SP or KKR (as the case may be) shall be responsible for any breach of this Section 1.6(c) (or such other agreement or obligation, as applicable) by any such Representative;
KKR Related Persons
Representatives
provided
(ii) by an Investor or any of its Representatives to the extent the Company consents in writing;
(iii) by an Investor or any KKR Related Person or any of their respective Representatives to a potential Transferee (so long as such Transfer is permitted hereunder); , that such Transferee agrees to be bound by the provisions of this Section 1.6(c) (or a confidentiality agreement having restrictions substantially similar to this Section 1.6(c)) and such Investor shall be responsible for any breach of this Section 1.6(c) (or such confidentiality agreement) by any such Transferee and, in any case, such
provided
 
Investor shall remain liable for any breach of any such provisions by such Transferee; and
(iv) by any Investor or any KKR Related Person or any of their respective Representatives to the extent that such Investor, KKR Related Person or Representative has received advice from its counsel that it is legally compelled to do so or is required to do so to comply with Applicable Law or legal process or Governmental Authority request or the rules of any securities exchange on which its securities are listed or the rules and regulations of any SRO; , that prior to making such disclosure, such Person uses commercially reasonable efforts to preserve the confidentiality of the Confidential Information to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, including, to the extent practicable and permitted by Applicable Law, consulting with the Company regarding such disclosure and, if reasonably requested by the Company, assisting the Company, at the Company's expense, in seeking a protective order to prevent the requested disclosure; , , that such Investor, KKR Related Person or Representative which is required to disclosure Confidential Information, as the case may be, uses reasonable best efforts to disclose only that portion of the Confidential Information as is requested by the applicable Governmental Authority or as is, based on the advice of its counsel, legally required or compelled.
provided
provided
further
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, without limiting any such KKR Investor Director's fiduciary duties under Applicable Law, and subject to Section 3.2, each of the parties hereto hereby consents to the KKR Investor Director sharing any information such KKR Investor Director (in his or her capacity as such) receives from the Company with officers, directors, members, employees, attorneys, accountants, consultants, bankers and financial advisors of KKR, the KKR Investors, the KKR Investment Funds and their respective Affiliates (other than any portfolio companies thereof) in each case, who shall agree to be bound by the provisions of this Section 1.6(c) (or to be bound by any confidentiality agreement or obligation to which such Person is a party or is otherwise bound, which has restrictions substantially similar to this Section 1.6(c)) (and KKR shall also remain responsible for any breach of such provisions, or such other agreements or obligations, as applicable, by any such Person), for the internal use by KKR, the KKR Investors, the KKR Investment Funds and such Affiliates of any such information, subject, however, to (x) KKR, the KKR Investors, the KKR Investment Funds and their respective Affiliates maintaining adequate procedures to prevent such information from being used in connection with the purchase or sale of securities of the Company in violation of Applicable Law and (y) compliance by KKR, the KKR Investors, the KKR Investment Funds and their respective Affiliates with the confidentiality provisions set forth in this Section 1.6(c).
2.1 .
Transfer Restrictions
(a) Other than solely in the case of a Permitted Transfer, no Investor shall Transfer any First Step Walgreens Shares (whether or not such First Step Walgreens Shares were originally Beneficially Owned by such Investor as of the First Step Closing) prior to the earlier
 
of (i) (x) in the case of an SP Investor, the earlier of (1) the Second Step Closing or (2) the date on which the Purchase Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms without the Second Step Closing having occurred, (y) in the case of an Other MEP Investor, the date that is six (6) months after the First Step Closing and (z) in the case of a KKR Investor and any Other Gibco Investor, the second anniversary of the First Step Closing; and (ii) in the case of an SP Investor, the death or permanent disability of SP, or, in the case of an Other Investor that is an individual, the death or permanent disability of such Other Investor (such period, the ""). Each KKR Investor and each Other Investor (other than the Other MEP Investors) hereby further agrees that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, including Article V, other than solely in the case of a Permitted Transfer, it shall not Transfer any First Step Walgreens Shares (whether or not such First Step Walgreens Shares were originally Beneficially Owned by such Investor as of the First Step Closing) during the period beginning on the date that is 30 months after the First Step Closing Date and ending on the earlier of (A) the Second Step Closing or (B) the date on which the Purchase Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms without the Second Step Closing having occurred (such period, the "").
First Step Restricted Period
Pre-Second Step Restricted Period
(b) Other than solely in the case of a Permitted Transfer, no Investor shall Transfer any Second Step Walgreens Shares (whether or not such Second Step Walgreens Shares were originally Beneficially Owned by such Investor as of the Second Step Closing) prior to the earlier of (but, for the avoidance of doubt, subject in each case to Section 7.16(b) and Section 10.01(e)(ii) of the Purchase Agreement) (i) (x) in the case of an SP Investor, nine (9) months after the Second Step Closing, (y) in the case of an Other MEP Investor, the date that is six (6) months after the Second Step Closing or (z) in the case of any other Investor, the date that is nine (9) months after the Second Step Closing, if applicable, and (ii) in the case of an SP Investor, the death or permanent disability of SP, or, in the case of an Other Investor that is an individual, the death or permanent disability of such Other Investor (such period, the "", and together with the First Step Restricted Period and the Pre-Second Step Restricted Period, the ""). The Company shall take reasonable steps to accommodate reasonable requests by SP as to the manner in which his First Step Walgreens Shares and related dividends thereon are held.
Second Step Restricted Period
Restricted Periods
(c) "" mean, in each case, so long as such Transfer is in accordance with Applicable Law and, solely in the case of sub-clauses (i) and (iii) below, any such Transfer would not result in the SP Investors or the KKR Investors exceeding the SP Ownership Limit or the KKR Ownership Limit, respectively:
Permitted Transfers
(i) a Transfer to a Permitted Transferee of the applicable Investor, so long as such Permitted Transferee, in connection with such Transfer, executes a customary joinder to this Agreement, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Company, in which such Permitted Transferee agrees to be an "SP Investor," in the case of a Transfer by an SP Investor, a "KKR Investor," in the case of a Transfer by a KKR Investor, or an "Other Investor," in the case of a Transfer by an Other Investor, in each case for all purposes of this Agreement;
(ii) a Transfer solely to tender into a tender or exchange offer commenced by a third party (for the avoidance of doubt, not in violation of this
 
Agreement) or by the Company; , that with respect to an unsolicited tender or exchange offer commenced by a third party, such Transfer shall be permitted only if (A) such tender or exchange offer includes an irrevocable minimum tender condition of no less than 66
provided
 2
/
3
% of the then-outstanding shares of Company Common Stock and (B) as of the expiration of such offer (x) no shareholder rights plan or analogous "poison pill" of the Company is in effect or (y) the Board is affirmatively publicly recommending to the Company's shareholders that such shareholders tender into such offer;
(iii) a Transfer solely between (A) a KKR Investor and an SP Investor or (B) a KKR Investor or an SP Investor, on the one hand, and any Other Investor, on the other hand; , that any such Transfer under sub-clause (B) to any Other Investor shall be permitted only if, after giving effect to such Transfer, such Other Investor Beneficially Owns less than 5% of the Total Voting Power and the Total Economic Interest;
provided
(iv) from and after the Second Step Closing, if applicable, a single Transfer by the SP Investors of 100% of the shares of Voting Securities then Beneficially Owned by the SP Investors to an un-Affiliated third party (x) that (1) is not an Affiliate of any KKR Investor and does not otherwise Beneficially Own more than 1% of the Voting Securities, (2) is not a Prohibited Transferee, (3) after giving effect to such Transfer, the SP Investor would be required to file reports under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act (whether as a result of stock ownership or as a result of SP serving as a director), if the equity securities received by the SP Investor were registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act (regardless whether such equity securities are in fact so registered) and (4) executes a customary joinder to this Agreement, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Company, in which such Transferee agrees to be an "SP Investor," for all purposes of this Agreement, including being bound by Section 1.4 and Section 2.1 (such Transferee, an "") and (y) in exchange for consideration consisting solely of equity securities of such Exchange Transferee; , that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the parties understand and agree that, from and after the effective time of any Transfer pursuant to this Section 2.1(c)(iv), with respect to Article I only, in the event of (A) the death, disability, resignation or removal (in accordance with Article I) from the Board of SP, (B) SP no longer being eligible to serve as a member of the Board pursuant to Section 1.3 or (C) any individual other than SP being designated as an SP Investor Designee, an SP Investor Rights Termination Event shall be deemed to have occurred for all purposes hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section 2.1(c)(iv) shall be void and of no further effect, and an SP Investor Rights Termination Event shall be deemed to have occurred, on the date that such SP Investor ceases, or would cease, to be required to file reports under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act in respect of the equity securities of the Exchange Transferee;
Exchange Transferee
provided
(v) a Transfer by way of dividend or distribution in kind (or in specie) or redemption, repurchase or similar transaction by any direct or indirect shareholder of AB; that such shareholder is a pooled investment vehicle, special purpose vehicle or similar entity or vehicle for one or more investors, so long as each distributee that receives any Shares pursuant to such Transfer (i) subject to clause (iii) below, in the
provided
 
case of any Affiliate of (x) KKR or any KKR Investor or (y) SP or any SP Investor, as applicable, executes a customary joinder to this Agreement, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Company, in which such distributee agrees to be a "KKR Investor" or a "SP Investor", respectively, for all purposes of this Agreement, (ii) in the case of other non-Affiliated distributees, executes a customary joinder to this Agreement, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Company, in which such distributee agrees to be an "Other Investor," for all purposes of this Agreement or (iii) in the case of any jointly Controlled Affiliate of KKR and SP that receives Shares in such dividend or distribution in kind or redemption, repurchase or similar transaction for the purpose of either (x) temporarily holding such Shares pending further distribution to further indirect shareholders of AB following receipt of required approvals or consents or (y) orderly sell down arrangements with respect to such Shares (on behalf of one or more other indirect shareholder(s) of AB that are not Affiliates of KKR or any KKR Investor or of SP or any SP Investor), executes a customary joinder to this Agreement, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Company, in which such distributee agrees to be a "KKR Investor" or a "SP Investor" (as determined by such distributee) for purposes of Section 1.4 only of this Agreement and an "Other Investor" for all other purposes of this Agreement (and, for the avoidance of doubt, with respect to such other purposes of this Agreement, shall not be deemed to be an Affiliate of KKR or SP by virtue of this clause (v) with respect to such Shares received by such distributee), it being understood and agreed that any Shares held pursuant to this clause (iii) shall be excluded from any calculation of the KKR Ownership Limit or SP Ownership Limit; , that upon such further distribution contemplated by clause (x) of this clause (iii), such further indirect shareholders shall be subject to clause (i) or (ii) above, as applicable.
provided
(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, including Article V hereof and the expiration or inapplicability of the First Step Restricted Period, the Second Step Restricted Period and/or, in the case of the KKR Investors and the Other Investors (other than the Other MEP Investors), the Pre-Second Step Restricted Period, no Investor shall Transfer any Voting Securities:
(i) other than in accordance with all Applicable Laws and the other terms and conditions of this Agreement;
(ii) except in a Permitted Transfer (A) in one or more transactions in which any Person or Group, to such Investor's knowledge, acquires 5% or more of the Total Voting Power or the Total Economic Interest or (B) (x) to any Person or Group (other than any Person who, to such Investor's knowledge, is an Activist or Group that, to such Investor's knowledge, includes an Activist) who, to such Investor's knowledge, after giving effect to such Transfer, would Beneficially Own 10% or more of the Total Voting Power or the Total Economic Interest or (y) to any Person who, to such Investor's knowledge, is an Activist or Group that, to such Investor's knowledge, includes an Activist, who, to such Investor's knowledge, after giving effect to such Transfer, would Beneficially Own 5% or more of the Total Voting Power or the Total Economic Interest; , that the restriction set forth in this clause (ii) shall not apply to Transfers effected solely through a bona fide Underwritten Offering pursuant to an exercise of the registration rights provided in Article V of this Agreement;
provided
 
(iii) (A) with respect to any KKR Investor, any SP Investor and, if (but only if) any Other Gibco Investor is Transferring any Voting Securities in a coordinated transaction or series of transactions together with any KKR Investor or any SP Investor, such Other Gibco Investor (but only with respect to such Transfer), except in a Permitted Transfer, on any given day in an amount (in aggregate across all such Investors) greater than 10% of the average daily trading volume of Company Common Stock for the 20-trading day period immediately preceding the date of such Transfer (the ""); , that the Aggregate Volume Limitation shall not apply to Transfers effected solely through a bona fide Underwritten Offering pursuant to an exercise of the registration rights provided in Article V of this Agreement; , , that from and after the date that is six (6) months after the end of the Second Step Restricted Period with respect to all such Investors, the Aggregate Volume Limitation shall increase to 15% of the average daily trading volume of Company Common Stock for the 20-trading day period immediately preceding the date of such Transfer, or (B) with respect to any Other Gibco Investor (unless clause (A) applies to such Other Gibco Investor with respect to such Transfer), except in a Permitted Transfer, on any given day in an amount greater than 0.5% of the average daily trading volume of Company Common Stock for the 20-trading day period immediately preceding the date of such Transfer (the ""); , that the Individual Volume Limitation shall not apply to Transfers effected solely through a bona fide Underwritten Offering pursuant to an exercise of the registration rights provided in Article V of this Agreement; or
Aggregate Volume Limitation
provided
provided
further
Individual Volume Limitation
provided
(iv) to any SP Investor (in the case of Transfers by KKR Investors or Other Investors) or to any KKR Investor (in the case of Transfers by SP Investors or Other Investors), if after giving effect to such Transfer, the Beneficial Ownership of the SP Investors or the KKR Investors, as applicable, would exceed the SP Ownership Limit or the KKR Ownership Limit, respectively.
(e) Without limiting any other provision of this Article II, prior to the expiration of any Restricted Period with respect to any Investor, the Initial KKR Investors will use commercially reasonable efforts to develop a plan for the orderly disposition of Voting Securities by such Investors and, to the extent reasonably practicable, the Other Gibco Investors.
(f) Any Transfer or attempted Transfer of Voting Securities in violation of this Section 2.1 shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be null and void , and the Company shall not, and shall instruct its transfer agent and other third parties not to, record or recognize any such purported transaction on the share register of the Company.
ab
initio
(g) With respect to any KKR Investor, SP Investor or Other Gibco Investor, any certificates for Shares shall bear a legend or legends (and appropriate comparable notations or other arrangements will be made with respect to any uncertificated shares) referencing restrictions on Transfer of such Shares under the Securities Act and under this Agreement, which legend shall state in substance:
"The securities evidenced by this certificate have been issued and sold without registration under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the
 
"Securities Act"), or the securities laws of any other foreign, federal, state, local or other jurisdiction (a "Foreign or State Act"). The securities evidenced by this certificate cannot be sold, assigned or otherwise transferred unless such sale, assignment or other transfer is (i) made pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and in accordance with each applicable Foreign or State Act or (ii) exempt from, or not subject to, the Securities Act (including pursuant to Regulation S thereunder) and each applicable Foreign or State Act. If the proposed sale, assignment or other transfer will be made pursuant to clause (ii) above, the holder must, prior to such sale, assignment or other transfer, furnish to the issuer such certifications, legal opinions and other information as the issuer may reasonably require to determine that such sale, assignment or other transfer is being made in accordance with such clause.
The securities evidenced by this certificate are subject to restrictions on transfer set forth in the Walgreen Co. Shareholders Agreement dated August 2, 2012, among the Company and certain other parties thereto (a copy of which is on file with the Secretary of the Company)."
(h) With respect to any Other MEP Investor, each such Other MEP Investor acknowledges and agrees that its Shares have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act, and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons except in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act or pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Each such Other MEP Investor represents, warrants and undertakes that it has not offered or sold, and (without limiting any other provision of this Agreement, including the other provisions of this Article II) will not offer and sell any Shares (i) as part of their distribution at any time and (ii) otherwise until six months after the First Step Closing (in the case of First Step Walgreens Shares) or the Second Step Closing (in the case of Second Step Walgreens Shares), as applicable, except in accordance with Regulation S, and it has not and will not engage in any hedging transactions involving the Shares unless in compliance with the Securities Act. Each such Other MEP Investor also agrees that, at or prior to confirmation of sale of any Shares, it will have sent to each distributor, dealer or person receiving a selling concession, fee or other remuneration that purchases Shares from it during the distribution compliance period a confirmation or notice, and any certificates for its Shares shall bear a legend or legends (and appropriate comparable notations or other arrangements will be made with respect to any uncertificated shares) referencing restrictions on Transfer of such Shares under the Securities Act and under this Agreement, which confirmation, notice or legend, as the case may be, shall state in substance:
"The securities [covered][evidenced] hereby have been issued and sold without registration under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the securities laws of any other foreign, federal, state, local or other jurisdiction (a "Foreign or State Act"), and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons (i) as part of their distribution at any time or (ii) otherwise until six months after the First Step Closing (in the case of First Step Walgreens Shares) or the Second Step Closing (in the case of Second Step Walgreens Shares) (as such terms are defined
 
in the Shareholders Agreement referred to below), except in either case in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act. No hedging transaction can be conducted with regard to the securities except as permitted by the Securities Act. Terms used above have the meanings given to them by Regulation S.
The securities [covered][evidenced] hereby are subject to restrictions on transfer set forth in the Walgreen Co. Shareholders Agreement dated August 2, 2012, among the Company and certain other parties thereto (a copy of which is on file with the Secretary of the Company)."
Terms used in this Section 2.1(h) but not otherwise defined in this Agreement have the meanings given to them by Regulation S under the Securities Act.
(i) Notwithstanding the foregoing subsections (g) and (h), the holder of any certificate(s) for Shares shall be entitled to receive from the Company new certificates for a like number of Shares not bearing such legend (or the elimination or termination of such notations or arrangements) upon the request of such holder (i) at such time as such restrictions are no longer applicable, and (ii) with respect to the restriction on Transfer of such shares under the Securities Act or any other Foreign or State Act, subject to delivery of an opinion of counsel to such holder, which opinion is reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Company and its counsel, that the restriction referenced in such legend (or such notations or arrangements) is no longer required in order to ensure compliance with the Securities Act or any such other Foreign or State Act.
2.2 .
Standstill Provisions
(a) During the Standstill Period, the KKR Investors, the SP Investors, KKR and SP shall not, directly or indirectly, and shall not permit any of their Controlled Affiliates, directly or indirectly, to, and KKR shall not permit any KKR Investment Fund, directly or indirectly, to (i) acquire, agree to acquire, propose or offer to acquire, or facilitate the acquisition or ownership of, Voting Securities, or securities of the Company that are convertible, exchangeable or exercisable into Voting Securities, other than (A) pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, (B) as a result of any stock split, stock dividend or subdivision of Voting Securities, (C) in the case of the SP Investors, acquisitions of shares of Company Common Stock, so long as after giving effect to all such acquisitions, the SP Investors would Beneficially Own less than the SP Ownership Limit, (E) in the case of the KKR Investors, any acquisition pursuant to and in accordance with Section 2.1(c)(i) or Section 2.1(c)(iii) (including the ownership limits set forth therein), subject to the KKR Ownership Limit or (F) any acquisition of shares of Company Common Stock by any KKR Non-Private Equity Business, so long as after giving effect to such acquisition, all KKR Non-Private Equity Businesses would Beneficially Own, in the aggregate, less than 5% of the Total Voting Power and the Total Economic Interest, (ii) deposit any Voting Securities in a voting trust or similar Contract or subject any Voting Securities to any voting agreement, pooling arrangement or similar arrangement or other Contract (other than between the KKR Investors, KKR, the KKR Investment Funds, the SP Investors, SP and their respective Controlled Affiliates), or grant any proxy with respect to any Voting Securities (other than (A) pursuant to Section 1.4(b), Section
1.4(c) and Section 1.4(d) or
 
(B) otherwise to the Company or a Person specified by the Company in a proxy card provided to shareholders of the Company by or on behalf of the Company or (C) in the case of KKR, the KKR Investors, any KKR Investment Fund and their Controlled Affiliates, to the SP Investors, SP or any of their respective Controlled Affiliates, or in the case of the SP Investors, SP and their respective Controlled Affiliates, to KKR, the KKR Investors, the KKR Investment Funds or any of their respective Controlled Affiliates), (iii) enter, agree to enter, propose or offer to enter into or facilitate any merger, business combination, recapitalization, restructuring, change in control transaction or other similar extraordinary transaction involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries (unless (1) such transaction is affirmatively publicly recommended by the Board and there has otherwise been no breach of this Section 2.2 in connection with or relating to such transaction or (2) such action is expressly permitted by Section 2.1(c)(ii)), (iv) make, or in any way participate or engage in, any "solicitation" of "proxies" (as such terms are used in the proxy rules of the Commission) to vote, or advise or knowingly influence any Person with respect to the voting of, any Voting Securities, (v) call, or seek to call, a meeting of the shareholders of the Company or initiate any shareholder proposal for action by shareholders of the Company, (vi) form, join or in any way participate in a Group (other than with its Permitted Transferee that is bound by the restrictions of this Section 2.2(a) or a Group which consists solely of any of SP, the SP Investors, KKR, and KKR Investment Fund, the KKR Investors and their respective Controlled Affiliates), with respect to any Voting Securities, (vii) otherwise act, alone or in concert with others, to seek to Control or influence the management or the policies of the Company (, that this clause (vii) shall in no way limit the activities of any SP Investor Director or any KKR Investor Director taken in good faith solely in his or her capacity as a director of the Company), (viii) publicly disclose any intention, plan, arrangement or other Contract prohibited by, or inconsistent with, the foregoing or (ix) advise or knowingly assist or encourage or enter into any discussions, negotiations, agreements, or arrangements or other Contracts with any other Persons in connection with the foregoing. The KKR Investors, the SP Investors, KKR and SP further agree that, during the Standstill Period, the KKR Investors, the SP Investors, KKR and SP shall not, directly or indirectly, and shall not permit any of their Controlled Affiliates, directly or indirectly, to, and KKR shall not permit any KKR Investment Fund, directly or indirectly, to (x) request the Company to amend or waive any provision of this Section 2.2 (including this sentence) or (y) take any action that would reasonably be expected to require the Company to make a public announcement regarding the possibility of a business combination, merger or other type of transaction or matter described in this Section 2.2; , that this clause (y) shall in no way limit the activities of any SP Investor Director or any KKR Investor Director taken in good faith solely in his or her capacity as a director of the Company.
provided
provided
(b) "" shall mean (i) with respect to SP and the SP Investors, until the date that is six (6) months after the later to occur of (x) the SP Investor Director ceasing to serve as a director on the Board (and the SP Investors either no longer having any rights under Article I to designate any SP Investor Designee to serve on the Board or irrevocably waiving any such rights) and (y) an SP Investor Rights Termination Event and (ii) with respect to KKR and the KKR Investors, until the date that is six (6) months after the later to occur of (x) the KKR Investor Director ceasing to serve as a director on the Board (and the KKR Investors either no longer having any rights under Article I to designate any KKR Investor Designee to serve on the Board or irrevocably waiving any such rights) and (y) a KKR Investor Rights Termination Event. Notwithstanding the foregoing, from and after the Governance Clawback Date (as
Standstill Period
 
defined in the Shareholders Agreement), if any, the Standstill Period shall expire on the date that is six (6) months after the later to occur of (i) the earlier to occur of (I) the last day of the Call Exercise Period and (II) the termination of the Purchase Agreement with respect to the Second Step Acquisition in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Agreement and (ii) (A), with respect to SP and the SP Investors, the SP Investor Director ceasing to serve as a director on the Board (and the SP Investors either no longer having any rights under Article I to designate any SP Investor Designee to serve on the Board or irrevocably waiving any such rights) and (B) with respect to KKR and the KKR Investors, the KKR Investor Director ceasing to serve as a director on the Board (and the KKR Investors either no longer having any rights under Article I to designate any KKR Investor Designee to serve on the Board or irrevocably waiving any such rights). For the avoidance of doubt, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, at all times during the Standstill Period, each of (1) the SP Investors and (2) KKR and the KKR Investors agree that their Beneficial Ownership, on a fully diluted basis, of Voting Securities or securities of the Company that are convertible, exchangeable or exercisable into Voting Securities, shall not exceed the SP Ownership Limit or the KKR Ownership Limit, respectively.
3.1 .
Non-Competition; Non-Solicit
(a) In order to induce the Company to enter into the Transactions, each of SP and the SP Investors hereby covenants and agrees that, until (1) in the event that the Purchase Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms without the Second Step Closing having occurred, the date that is one (1) year after no SP Investor Director serves as a director on the Board (and the SP Investors either no longer having any rights under Article I to designate any SP Investor Designee to serve on the Board or irrevocably waiving any such rights) or (2) in the event that the Second Step Closing shall have occurred, the date that is one (1) year after the later to occur of (A) no SP Investor Director serving as a director on the Board (and the SP Investors either no longer having any rights under Article I to designate any SP Investor Designee to serve on the Board or irrevocably waiving any such rights) and (B) SP no longer serving as Executive Chairperson or Chief Executive Officer of AB and, notwithstanding the absence of either such title, no longer being actively involved in an operational and management capacity in the business activities and operational decisions of AB, Walgreens or their respective subsidiaries, it shall not, directly or indirectly (including through Controlled Affiliates, but in each case excluding from the restrictions of this Section 3.1 any actions directly taken by any member of the AB Group):
(i) own, manage or operate, or participate in, or benefit from, the ownership, management or operation of, or have any Beneficial Ownership interest in, any Designated Entity; , that without limiting the generality of the foregoing, this Section 3.1(a) shall not prohibit:
provided
(A) the Beneficial Ownership, as a passive investment, of less than five percent (5%) of the outstanding stock of any publicly traded corporation;
 
(B) the operation of any businesses conducted by SP, the SP Investors or any of their respective Affiliates that exist as of the date hereof, in the lines of business in which they are actively engaged as of the date hereof;
(C) the performance of any act or the conducting of any business expressly required by this Agreement or any of the other Transaction Documents; or
(D) the acquisition of a Person or business or more than 50% of the outstanding capital stock or other equity interests of such Person or business, if such Person or business conducts, directly or indirectly, businesses of any Designated Entity (or any lesser percentage if such acquisition results in the holding of the right to Control such Person or business) and, prior to such acquisition, neither such Person nor any of its Affiliates, nor such business nor any of its Affiliates, as the case may be, was an Affiliate of the acquiror or its Affiliates, and such Person or business, as the case may be, and its Affiliates derived not more than 10% of its total consolidated revenues in its most recent fiscal year from activities conducted by such Designated Entity; or
(ii) solicit for employment any person that is (or was within the six-month period prior to the date of determination) a member of the management team of the Company or any of its subsidiaries with the title of Vice-President or higher, or of the management team of any member of the AB Group who is a Senior Manager; , that general, non-targeted media advertising or the use of an independent search firm that contacts employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or of any member of the AB Group, without the direction or advice of any of the Persons whose activities are restricted by this Section 3.1(a) shall not be deemed to be direct or indirect solicitations.
provided
(b) For the avoidance of doubt, in the event of a breach of the obligations under this Section 3.1, in addition to all other available remedies, the Company shall be entitled to seek specific performance to enforce the provisions of this Section 3.1 in any court of competent jurisdiction in accordance with Section 7.10.
(c) Each of SP and the SP Investors acknowledges that the restrictions contained in this Section 3.1 are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company and constitute a material inducement to the Company to enter into this Agreement, the other Transaction Documents and consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Transaction Documents. It is the intent of the parties that the provisions of this Section 3.1 shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible under the Applicable Law and public policies applied in each jurisdiction in which enforcement is sought. If any particular provision or portion of this Section 3.1 shall be adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such provision or portion thereof shall be deemed amended to the minimum extent necessary to render such provision or portion valid and enforceable, such amendment to apply only with respect to the operation of such provision or portion in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.
3.2 . Subject to the provisions of Section 1.6 and Section 3.1:
Outside Activities
 
(a) KKR, any KKR Investor, any KKR Investment Fund, SP, any SP Investor, any Other Investor and any of their respective Affiliates may engage in or possess any interest in other investments, business ventures or Persons of any nature or description, independently or with others, similar or dissimilar to, or that competes with, the investments or business of the Company, and may provide advice and other assistance to any such investment, business venture or Person;
(b) the Company shall have no rights by virtue of this Agreement in and to such investments, business ventures or Persons or the income or profits derived therefrom; and
(c) the pursuit of any such investment or venture, even if competitive with the business of the Company, shall not be deemed wrongful or improper and shall not constitute a conflict of interest or breach of fiduciary or other duty in respect of the Company, its subsidiaries or the Investors. None of KKR, the KKR Investors, any KKR Investment Fund, SP, any SP Investor, any Other Investor or any of their respective Affiliates shall be obligated to present any particular investment or business opportunity to the Company even if such opportunity is of a character that, if presented to the Company, could be pursued by the Company, and KKR, any KKR Investor, any KKR Investment Fund, SP, any SP Investor, any Other Investor and any of their respective Affiliates shall have the right to pursue for its own account (individually or as a partner or a fiduciary) or to recommend to any other Person any such investment opportunity; , that a SP Investor Director or a KKR Investor Director, as the case may be, who is offered an investment or business opportunity in his or her capacity as a member of the Board (or in the case of SP, after the Second Step Closing, as an officer or employee of the Company or AB) shall be obligated to communicate such opportunity to the Company, in which case SP, the SP Investors and their respective Affiliates, or KKR, the KKR Investors, the KKR Investment Funds and their respective Affiliates, respectively, shall not be permitted to pursue such opportunity unless the Board determines not to do so.
provided
4.1 . Each Investor, on behalf of itself and not any other Investor, hereby represents and warrants to the Company as follows as of the date hereof (or, if applicable, as of the date the joinder agreement pursuant to which such Investor shall have become a party to this Agreement):
Representations and Warranties of the Investors
(a) (i) with respect to such Investor (other than any Other MEP Investor), such Investor Beneficially Owns and is the sole record owner of the number of shares of Company Common Stock listed on opposite such Investor's name (or, in the case of a joinder agreement executed and delivered by such Investor, listed on an annex to such joinder agreement) and, with respect to such Investor, such shares constitute all of the Voting Securities of the Company owned of record or Beneficially Owned by such Investor and (ii) with respect to any Other MEP Investor, such Other MEP Investor Beneficially Owns and is the sole record owner of the number of shares of Company Common Stock listed on an annex to the joinder agreement executed and delivered by such Other MEP Investor, except (A) with respect to, and to the extent of,
Annex A
 
any shares of Company Common Stock owned of record by such Other MEP Investor as the bare trustee or nominee for the spouse or any other Permitted Transferee of such Other MEP Investor to whom an interest in such shares has been transferred pursuant to a Permitted Transfer (such record owner, an ""), as to which shares such Other MEP Bare Trustee is only the sole record owner and (B) with respect to, and to the extent of, any shares of Company Common Stock Beneficially Owned by such Other MEP Investor as the Permitted Transferee of an Other MEP Bare Trustee, as to which shares such Other MEP Investor is only the Beneficial Owner.
Other MEP Bare Trustee
(b) Such Investor (if it is not an individual) has been duly formed, is validly existing and, where such concept is applicable, is in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization. Such Investor has all requisite power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
(c) The execution and delivery by such Investor of this Agreement and the performance by such Investor of its obligations under this Agreement do not and will not conflict with or violate any provision of, or require the consent or approval of any Person (except for any such consents or approvals which have been obtained) under, (x) Applicable Law, (y) the organizational documents of such Investor (if it is not an individual) or (z) any contract or agreement to which such Investor is a party.
(d) The execution and delivery by such Investor of this Agreement and the performance by such Investor of its obligations under this Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other analogous action on the part of such Investor. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by such Investor and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by the other parties hereto, constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Investor, enforceable against such Investor in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general principles of equity.
(e) In the case of a KKR Investor, SP Investor or Other Gibco Investor, such Investor: (i) is acquiring the Shares for its own account, solely for investment and not with a view toward, or for sale in connection with, any distribution thereof in violation of any foreign, federal, state or local securities or "blue sky" laws, or with any present intention of distributing or selling such Shares in violation of any such laws, (ii) has such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and in investments of this type that it is capable of evaluating the merits and risks of its investment in the Shares and of making an informed investment decision and (iii) is an "accredited investor" within the meaning of Rule 501 of Regulation D under the Securities Act. In the case of an Other MEP Investor, such Other MEP Investor: (x) is acquiring the Shares for its own account, solely for investment and not with a view toward, or for sale in connection with, any distribution thereof in violation of any foreign, federal, state or local securities or "blue sky" laws, or with any present intention of distributing or selling such Shares in violation of any such laws, (y) is not a "U.S. person" within the meaning of Rule 902 of Regulation S under the Securities Act and (z) represents, warrants and undertakes that neither it, its affiliates (as defined in Rule 501(b)
 
under the Securities Act), nor any Persons acting on its or their behalf has engaged or will engage in any directed selling efforts (as defined in Regulation S under the Securities Act) with respect to the Shares, and it and they have complied and will comply with the offering restrictions requirement of Regulation S under the Securities Act. Such Investor understands that the Company is relying on the statements contained herein to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act and under foreign, federal, state and local securities laws and acknowledges that the Shares are not registered under the Securities Act or any other Applicable Law and that such Shares may not be Transferred except pursuant to the registration provisions of the Securities Act (and in compliance with any other Applicable Law) or pursuant to an applicable exemption therefrom.
4.2 . SP hereby represents and warrants to the Company as follows:
Representations and Warranties of SP
(a) He has all requisite capacity to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform his obligations under this Agreement.
(b) The execution and delivery by him of this Agreement and the performance by him of his obligations under this Agreement do not and will not conflict with or violate any provision of, or require the consent or approval of any Person (except for any such consents or approvals which have been obtained) under, (x) Applicable Law or (y) any contract or agreement to which he is a party.
(c) This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by him and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by the other parties hereto, constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of him, enforceable against him in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general principles of equity.
4.3 . KKR hereby represents and warrants to the Company as follows:
Representations and Warranties of KKR
(a) It is a limited partnership duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its state of organization. It has all requisite power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
(b) The execution and delivery by it of this Agreement and the performance by it of its obligations under this Agreement do not and will not conflict with or violate any provision of, or require the consent or approval of any Person (except for any such consents or approvals which have been obtained) under, (x) Applicable Law, (y) the organizational documents of KKR or (z) any contract or agreement to which it is a party.
(c) The execution and delivery by it of this Agreement and the performance by it of its obligations under this Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other analogous action on the part of it. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by it and, assuming the due authorization, execution
 
and delivery by the other parties hereto, constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of it, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general principles of equity.
4.4 . The Company hereby represents and warrants to the Investors as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
(a) The Company is a corporation, duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Illinois. The Company has all requisite power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
(b) The execution and delivery by the Company of this Agreement and the performance of the obligations of the Company under this Agreement do not and will not conflict with or violate any provision of, or require the consent or approval of any Person (except for any such consents or approvals which have been obtained) under, (x) Applicable Law, (y) the organizational documents of the Company (following any actions taken pursuant to Section 1.1(i)) or (z) any contract or agreement to which the Company is a party.
(c) The execution and delivery by the Company of this Agreement and the performance of the obligations of the Company under this Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by the other parties hereto, constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general principles of equity.
5.1 .
Demand Registrations
(a) From and after the expiration of the First Step Restricted Period (subject, in the case of the KKR Investors, to the Pre-Second Step Restricted Period) and/or the Second Step Restricted Period, as applicable, subject to the terms and conditions hereof (x) solely during any period that the Company is then-ineligible under Applicable Law to register Registrable Securities on Form S-3 pursuant to Section 5.3 or, if the Company is so eligible but has failed to comply with its obligations under Section 5.3 or (y) following the expiration of the Company's obligation to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective pursuant to Section 5.3(c), but only if there is no Shelf Registration Statement then in effect, any Demand Shareholders ("") shall be entitled to make an unlimited number of written requests of the Company (each, a "") for registration under the Securities Act of an amount of Registrable Securities then held by such Requesting Shareholders that equals or is
Requesting Shareholders
Demand
 
greater than the Registrable Amount (a ""). Thereupon the Company will, subject to the terms of this Agreement, use its reasonable best efforts to effect the registration as promptly as practicable under the Securities Act of:
Demand Registration
(i) the Registrable Securities which the Company has been so requested to register by the Requesting Shareholders for disposition in accordance with the intended method of disposition stated in such Demand;
(ii) all other Registrable Securities which the Company has been requested to register pursuant to Section 5.1(b), but subject to Section 5.1(g); and
(iii) all shares of Company Common Stock which the Company may elect to register in connection with any offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to this Section 5.1, but subject to Section 5.1(g);
all to the extent necessary to permit the disposition (in accordance with the intended methods thereof) of the Registrable Securities and the additional shares of Company Common Stock, if any, to be so registered.
(b) A Demand shall specify: (i) the aggregate number of Registrable Securities requested to be registered in such Demand Registration, (ii) the intended method of disposition in connection with such Demand Registration, to the extent then known and (iii) the identity of the Requesting Shareholder(s). Within ten (10) days after receipt of a Demand, the Company shall give written notice of such Demand to all other holders of Registrable Securities. The Company shall include in the Demand Registration covered by such Demand all Registrable Securities with respect to which the Company has received a written request for inclusion therein within ten (10) days after the Company's notice required by this paragraph has been given, subject to Section 5.1(g). Each such written request shall comply with the requirements of a Demand as set forth in this Section 5.1(b).
(c) A Demand Registration shall not be deemed to have been effected and shall not count as a Demand Registration (i) unless a registration statement with respect thereto has become effective and has remained effective for a period of at least one hundred eighty (180) days or such shorter period in which all Registrable Securities included in such Demand Registration have actually been sold thereunder (, that such period shall be extended for a period of time equal to the period the holder of Registrable Securities refrains from selling any securities included in such registration statement at the request of the Company or the lead managing underwriter(s) pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement) or (ii) if, after it has become effective, such Demand Registration becomes subject, prior to one hundred eighty (180) days after effectiveness, to any stop order, injunction or other order or requirement of the Commission or other Governmental Authority, other than by reason of any act or omission by the applicable Selling Shareholders.
provided
(d) Demand Registrations shall be on such appropriate registration form of the Commission as shall be selected by the Company and reasonably acceptable to the Requesting Shareholders.
 
(e) The Company shall not be obligated to (i) subject to Section 5.1(c), maintain the effectiveness of a registration statement under the Securities Act filed pursuant to a Demand Registration, for a period longer than one hundred eighty (180) days or (ii) effect any Demand Registration (A) within six (6) months of a "firm commitment" Underwritten Offering in which all Demand Shareholders (as hereinafter defined) were offered "piggyback" rights pursuant to Section 5.2 (subject to Section 5.2(b)) and at least 50% of the number of Registrable Securities requested by such Demand Shareholders to be included in such Demand Registration were included, (B) within six (6) months of the completion of any other Demand Registration (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any Underwritten Offering pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement) or (C) if, in the Company's reasonable judgment, it is not feasible for the Company to proceed with the Demand Registration because of the unavailability of audited or other required financial statements; , that the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain such financial statements as promptly as practicable.
provided
(f) The Company shall be entitled to postpone (upon written notice to the Demand Shareholders) the filing or the effectiveness of a registration statement for any Demand Registration in the event of a Blackout Period until the expiration of the applicable Blackout Period. In the event of a Blackout Period under clause (ii) of the definition thereof, the Company shall deliver to the Demand Shareholders requesting registration a certificate signed by either the chief executive officer or the chief financial officer of the Company certifying that, in the good faith judgment of the Board, the conditions described in clause (ii) of the definition of Blackout Period are met. Such certificate shall contain an approximation of the anticipated delay.
(g) If, in connection with a Demand Registration that involves an Underwritten Offering, the lead managing underwriter(s) advise(s) the Company that, in its (their) opinion, the inclusion of all of the securities sought to be registered in connection with such Demand Registration would adversely affect the success thereof, then the Company shall include in such registration statement only such securities as the Company is advised by such lead managing underwriter(s) can be sold without such adverse effect as follows and in the following order of priority: (i) first, up to the number of Registrable Securities requested to be included in such Demand Registration by the Demand Shareholders, which, in the opinion of the lead managing underwriter(s), can be sold without adversely affecting the success thereof, pro rata among such Demand Shareholders on the basis of the number of such Registrable Securities requested to be included by such Demand Shareholders; (ii) second, up to the number of Registrable Securities requested to be included in such Demand Registration by other holders of Registrable Securities, pro rata on the basis of the amount of such Registrable Securities requested to be included by such holders; (iii) third, securities the Company proposes to sell; and (iv) fourth, all other securities of the Company duly requested to be included in such registration statement, pro rata on the basis of the amount of such other securities requested to be included or such other allocation method determined by the Company.
(h) Any time that a Demand Registration involves an Underwritten Offering, the Requesting Shareholder(s) shall select the investment banker(s) and manager(s) that will serve as managing underwriters (including which such managing underwriters will serve as lead or co-lead) and underwriters with respect to the offering of such Registrable Securities; provided, that such investment banker(s) and manager(s) shall be reasonably acceptable to the Company (such acceptance not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed).
 
5.2 .
Piggyback Registrations
(a) From and after the expiration of the First Step Restricted Period (but, subject, as applicable, to the Pre-Second Step Restricted Period) and/or the Second Step Restricted Period, as applicable, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, whenever the Company proposes to register any Company Common Stock under the Securities Act (other than a registration by the Company (i) on Form S-4 or any successor form thereto, (ii) on Form S-8 or any successor form thereto, (iii) on a Shelf Registration Statement or (iv) pursuant to Section 5.1) (a ""), whether for its own account or for the account of others, the Company shall give all holders of Registrable Securities prompt written notice thereof (but not less than ten (10) Business Days prior to the filing by the Company with the Commission of any registration statement with respect thereto). Such notice (a "") shall specify the number of shares of Company Common Stock proposed to be registered, the proposed date of filing of such registration statement with the Commission, the proposed means of distribution, the proposed managing underwriter(s) (if any) and a good faith estimate by the Company of the proposed minimum offering price of such shares of Company Common Stock, in each case to the extent then known. Subject to Section 5.2(b), the Company shall include in each such Piggyback Registration all Registrable Securities held by holders of Registrable Securities (a "") with respect to which the Company has received written requests (which written requests shall specify the number of Registrable Securities requested to be disposed of by such Piggyback Seller) for inclusion therein within ten (10) days after such Piggyback Notice is received by such Piggyback Seller.
Piggyback Registration
Piggyback Notice
Piggyback Seller
(b) If, in connection with a Piggyback Registration that involves an Underwritten Offering, the lead managing underwriter(s) advises the Company that, in its opinion, the inclusion of all the shares of Company Common Stock sought to be included in such Piggyback Registration by (i) the Company, (ii) other Persons who have sought to have shares of Company Common Stock registered in such Piggyback Registration pursuant to rights to demand (other than pursuant to so-called "piggyback" or other incidental or participation registration rights) such registration (such Persons being ""), (iii) the Piggyback Sellers and (iv) any other proposed sellers of shares of Company Common Stock (such Persons being ""), as the case may be, would adversely affect the success thereof, then the Company shall include in the registration statement applicable to such Piggyback Registration only such shares of Company Common Stock as the Company is so advised by such lead managing underwriter(s) can be sold without such an effect, as follows and in the following order of priority:
Other Demanding Sellers
Other Proposed Sellers
(i) if the Piggyback Registration relates to an offering for the Company's own account, then (A) first, such number of shares of Company Common Stock to be sold by the Company as the Company, in its reasonable judgment and acting in good faith and in accordance with sound financial practice, shall have determined, (B) second, Registrable Securities of Piggyback Sellers, pro rata on the basis of the number of Registrable Securities proposed to be sold by such Piggyback Sellers, (C) third, shares of Company Common Stock sought to be registered by Other Demanding Sellers, pro rata on the basis of the number of shares of Company Common Stock proposed to be sold by such Other Demanding Sellers and (D) fourth, other shares of Company Common Stock proposed to be sold by any Other Proposed Sellers; or
 
(ii) if the Piggyback Registration relates to an offering other than for the Company's own account, then (A) first, such number of shares of Company Common Stock sought to be registered by each Other Demanding Seller pro rata in proportion to the number of securities sought to be registered by all such Other Demanding Sellers, (B) second, Registrable Securities of Piggyback Sellers, pro rata on the basis of the number of shares of Company Common Stock proposed to be sold by such Piggyback Sellers, (C) third, shares of Company Common Stock to be sold by the Company and (D) fourth, other shares of Company Common Stock proposed to be sold by any Other Proposed Sellers.
(c) For clarity, in connection with any Underwritten Offering under this Section 5.2 for the Company's account, the Company shall not be required to include the Registrable Securities of a Piggyback Seller in the Underwritten Offering unless such Piggyback Seller accepts the terms of the underwriting as agreed upon between the Company and the lead managing underwriter(s), which shall be selected by the Company.
(d) If, at any time after giving written notice of its intention to register any shares of Company Common Stock as set forth in this Section 5.2 and prior to the time the registration statement filed in connection with such Piggyback Registration is declared effective, the Company shall determine for any reason not to register such shares of Company Common Stock, the Company may, at its election, give written notice of such determination to the Piggyback Sellers within five (5) Business Days thereof and thereupon shall be relieved of its obligation to register any Registrable Securities in connection with such particular withdrawn or abandoned Piggyback Registration; , that Demand Shareholders may continue the registration as a Demand Registration pursuant to the terms of Section 5.1.
provided
5.3 .
Shelf Registration Statement
(a) From and after the expiration of the First Step Restricted Period (subject, as applicable, to the Pre-Second Step Restricted Period) and/or the Second Step Restricted Period, as applicable, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, and further subject to the availability of a registration statement on Form S-3 or any successor form thereto ("") to the Company, any of the Demand Shareholders may by written notice delivered to the Company (the "") require the Company to file as soon as reasonably practicable, and to use reasonable best efforts to cause to be declared effective by the Commission as soon as reasonably practicable after such filing date, a Form S-3 providing for an offering to be made on a continuous basis pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act relating to the offer and sale, from time to time, of an amount of Registrable Securities then held by such Demand Shareholders that equals or is greater than the Registrable Amount (the ""). To the extent the Company is a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act), the Company shall file the Shelf Registration Statement in the form of an automatic shelf registration statement (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) or any successor form thereto.
Form S-3
Shelf Notice
Shelf Registration Statement
(b) Within ten (10) days after receipt of a Shelf Notice pursuant to Section 5.3(a), the Company will deliver written notice thereof to all other holders of Registrable Securities. Each other holder of Registrable Securities may elect to participate with respect to its
 
Registrable Securities in the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the plan and method of distribution set forth, or to be set forth, in such Shelf Registration Statement by delivering to the Company a written request to so participate within ten (10) days after the Shelf Notice is received by any such holder of Registrable Securities.
(c) Subject to Section 5.3(d), the Company will use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective until the earlier of (i) three (3) years after the Shelf Registration Statement has been declared effective; (ii) the date on which all Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement have been sold thereunder in accordance with the plan and method of distribution disclosed in the prospectus included in the Shelf Registration Statement, or otherwise cease to be Registrable Securities; and (iii) the date on which the holders of Registrable Securities, in the aggregate, no longer hold Registrable Securities that represent at least 2.0% of the Total Voting Power; , that the Company's obligations under this Section 5.3(c) shall cease after completion of the fifth (5th) Shelf Offering by the Demand Shareholders (taking into account the time periods described in Section 5.1(c) as if such Shelf Offering were a Demand Registration).
provided
(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the Company shall be entitled, from time to time, by providing written notice to the holders of Registrable Securities who elected to participate in the Shelf Registration Statement, to require such holders of Registrable Securities to suspend the use of the prospectus for sales of Registrable Securities under the Shelf Registration Statement during any Blackout Period. In the event of a Blackout Period under clause (ii) of the definition thereof, the Company shall deliver to the Demand Shareholders requesting registration a certificate signed by either the chief executive officer or the chief financial officer of the Company certifying that, in the good faith judgment of the Board, the conditions described in clause (ii) of the definition of Blackout Period are met. Such certificate shall contain an approximation of the anticipated delay. After the expiration of any Blackout Period and without any further request from a holder of Registrable Securities, the Company to the extent necessary shall as promptly as reasonably practicable prepare a post-effective amendment or supplement to the Shelf Registration Statement or the prospectus, or any document incorporated therein by reference, or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to purchasers of the Registrable Securities included therein, the prospectus will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(e) At any time that a Shelf Registration Statement is effective, if any Demand Shareholder delivers a notice to the Company (a "") stating that it intends to sell all of part of its Registrable Securities included by it on the Shelf Registration Statement (a ""), then, the Company shall amend or supplement the Shelf Registration Statement as may be necessary in order to enable such Registrable Securities to be distributed pursuant to the Shelf Offering (taking into account, solely in connection with a Marketed Underwritten Shelf Offering, the inclusion of Registrable Securities by any other holders pursuant to this Section 5.3). In connection with any Shelf Offering that is an Underwritten Offering and where the plan of distribution set forth in the applicable Take-Down Notice includes a customary "road show" (including an "electronic road show") or other
Take-Down Notice
Shelf Offering
 
substantial marketing effort by the Company and the underwriters (a ""):
Marketed Underwritten Shelf Offering
(i) such proposing Demand Shareholder(s) shall also deliver the Take-Down Notice to all other holders of Registrable Securities included on the Shelf Registration Statement and permit each such holder to include its Registrable Securities included on the Shelf Registration Statement in the Marketed Underwritten Shelf Offering if such holder notifies the proposing Demand Shareholder(s) and the Company within five (5) days after delivery of the Take-Down Notice to such holder; and
(ii) if the lead managing underwriter(s) advises the Company and the proposing Demand Shareholder(s) that, in its opinion, the inclusion of all of the securities sought to be sold in connection with such Marketed Underwritten Shelf Offering would adversely affect the success thereof, then there shall be included in such Marketed Underwritten Shelf Offering only such securities as the proposing Demand Shareholder(s) is advised by such lead managing underwriter(s) can be sold without such adverse effect, and such number of Registrable Securities shall be allocated in the same manner as described in Section 5.1(g). Except as otherwise expressly specified in this Section 5.3, any Marketed Underwritten Shelf Offering shall be subject to the same requirements, limitations and other provisions of this Article V as would be applicable to a Demand Registration (, as if such Marketed Underwritten Shelf Offering were a Demand Registration), including Section 5.1(e)(ii) and Section 5.1(g).
i.e.
5.4 . Any holder of Registrable Securities having notified or directed the Company to include any or all of its Registrable Securities in a registration statement under the Securities Act shall have the right to withdraw any such notice or direction with respect to any or all of the Registrable Securities designated by it for registration by giving written notice to such effect to the Company prior to the effective date of such registration statement. In the event of any such withdrawal, the Company shall not include such Registrable Securities in the applicable registration and such Registrable Securities shall continue to be Registrable Securities for all purposes of this Agreement (subject to the other terms and conditions of this Agreement). No such withdrawal shall affect the obligations of the Company with respect to the Registrable Securities not so withdrawn; , , that in the case of a Demand Registration, if such withdrawal shall reduce the number of Registrable Securities sought to be included in such registration below the Registrable Amount, then the Company shall as promptly as practicable give each Demand Shareholder seeking to register Registrable Securities notice to such effect and, within ten (10) days following the mailing of such notice, such Demand Shareholders still seeking registration shall, by written notice to the Company, elect to register additional Registrable Securities to satisfy the Registrable Amount or elect that such registration statement not be filed or, if theretofore filed, be withdrawn. During such ten (10) day period, the Company shall not file such registration statement if not theretofore filed or, if such registration statement has been theretofore filed, the Company shall not seek, and shall use reasonable best efforts to prevent, the effectiveness thereof.
Withdrawal Rights
provided
however
5.5 . Each Demand Shareholder, and each other holder of Registrable Securities who at such time Beneficially Owns greater than three percent (3%) of the Total Voting Power or the Total Economic Interest, agrees to enter into customary agreements
Holdback Agreements
 
restricting the public sale or distribution of equity securities of the Company (including sales pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act) to the extent required in writing by the lead managing underwriter(s) with respect to an applicable Underwritten Offering during the period commencing on the date of the request (which shall be no earlier than fourteen (14) days prior to the expected "pricing" of such Underwritten Offering) and continuing for not more than ninety (90) days after the date of the "final" prospectus (or "final" prospectus supplement if the Underwritten Offering is made pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement), pursuant to which such Underwritten Offering shall be made, plus an extension period, as may be proposed by the lead managing underwriter(s) to address FINRA regulations regarding the publishing of research, or such lesser period as is required by the lead managing underwriter(s) or such lesser period as is required by the lead managing underwriter(s).
If any Demand Registration or Shelf Offering involves an Underwritten Offering, the Company will not effect any public sale or distribution of any common equity (or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for common equity) (other than a registration statement on Form S-4, Form S-8 or any successor forms thereto) for its own account, within sixty (60) days (plus an extension period as may be proposed by the lead managing underwriter(s) for such Underwritten Offering to address FINRA regulations regarding the publication of research, or such shorter periods as such lead managing underwriter(s) may agree to with the Company), after the effective date of such registration except as may otherwise be agreed between the Company and the lead managing underwriter(s) of such Underwritten Offering.
5.6 .
Registration Procedures
(a) If and whenever the Company is required to use reasonable best efforts to effect the registration of any Registrable Securities under the Securities Act as provided in Section 5.1, Section 5.2 or Section 5.3, the Company shall as expeditiously as reasonably practicable:
(i) prepare and file with the Commission a registration statement to effect such registration in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution of such securities and thereafter use reasonable best efforts to cause such registration statement to become and remain effective pursuant to the terms of this Article V; , , that the Company may discontinue any registration of its securities which are not Registrable Securities at any time prior to the effective date of the registration statement relating thereto; , , that before filing such registration statement or any amendments thereto, the Company will furnish to the Demand Shareholders which are including Registrable Securities in such registration (""), their counsel and the lead managing underwriter(s), if any, copies of all such documents proposed to be filed, which documents will be subject to the review and reasonable comment of such counsel, and other documents reasonably requested by such counsel, including any comment letter from the Commission, and, if requested by such counsel, provide such counsel reasonable opportunity to participate in the preparation of such registration statement and each prospectus included therein and such other opportunities to conduct a reasonable investigation within the meaning of the Securities Act, including reasonable access to the Company's books and records, officers, accountants and other advisors. The Company shall not file any such registration
provided
however
provided
further
Selling Shareholders
 
statement or prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto with respect to a Demand Registration to which the holders of a majority of Registrable Securities held by the Requesting Shareholder(s), their counsel or the lead managing underwriter(s), if any, shall reasonably object, in writing, on a timely basis, unless, in the opinion of the Company, such filing is necessary to comply with Applicable Law;
(ii) prepare and file with the Commission such amendments and supplements to such registration statement and the prospectus used in connection therewith as may be necessary to keep such registration statement effective pursuant to the terms of this Article V, and comply in all material respects with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such registration statement;
(iii) if requested by the lead managing underwriter(s), if any, or the holders of a majority of the then outstanding Registrable Securities being sold in connection with an Underwritten Offering, promptly include in a prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment such information as the lead managing underwriter(s), if any, and such holders may reasonably request in order to permit the intended method of distribution of such securities and make all required filings of such prospectus supplement or such post-effective amendment as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has received such request; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to take any actions under this Section 5.6(a)(iii) that are not, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, in compliance with Applicable Law;
(iv) furnish to the Selling Shareholders and each underwriter, if any, of the securities being sold by such Selling Shareholders such number of conformed copies of such registration statement and of each amendment and supplement thereto, such number of copies of the prospectus contained in such registration statement (including each preliminary prospectus and any summary prospectus) and each free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) (a "") utilized in connection therewith and any other prospectus filed under Rule 424 under the Securities Act, in conformity with the requirements of the Securities Act, and such other documents as such Selling Shareholders and underwriter, if any, may reasonably request in order to facilitate the public sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities owned by such Selling Shareholders;
Free Writing Prospectus
(v) use reasonable best efforts to register or qualify or cooperate with the Selling Shareholders, the underwriters, if any, and their respective counsel in connection with the registration or qualification (or exemption from such registration or qualification) of such Registrable Securities covered by such registration statement under such other securities laws or "blue sky" laws of such jurisdictions as the Selling Shareholders and any underwriter of the securities being sold by such Selling Shareholders shall reasonably request, and to keep each such registration or qualification (or exemption therefrom) effective during the period such registration statement is required to be kept effective and take any other action which may be necessary or reasonably advisable to enable such Selling Shareholders and underwriters to consummate the disposition in such jurisdictions of the Registrable Securities owned by
 
such Selling Shareholders, except that the Company shall not for any such purpose be required to (A) qualify generally to do business as a foreign corporation in any jurisdiction wherein it would not but for the requirements of this clause (v) be obligated to be so qualified, (B) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction or (C) file a general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction;
(vi) use reasonable best efforts to cause such Registrable Securities to be listed on each securities exchange on which similar securities issued by the Company are then listed and, if no such securities are so listed, use reasonable best efforts to cause such Registrable Securities to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Stock Market;
(vii) use reasonable best efforts to cause such Registrable Securities covered by such registration statement to be registered with or approved by such other governmental agencies or authorities as may be reasonably necessary to enable the Selling Shareholder(s) thereof to consummate the disposition of such Registrable Securities;
(viii) use reasonable best efforts to provide and cause to be maintained a transfer agent and registrar for all Registrable Securities covered by such registration statement from and after a date not later than the effective date of such registration statement;
(ix) enter into such agreements (including an underwriting agreement in form, scope and substance as is customary in underwritten offerings) and use its reasonable best efforts to take all such other actions reasonably requested by the holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities being sold in connection therewith (including those reasonably requested by the lead managing underwriter(s), if any) to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities, and in such connection, whether or not an underwriting agreement is entered into and whether or not the registration is an Underwritten Offering (A) make such representations and warranties to the holders of such Registrable Securities and the underwriters, if any, with respect to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries, and the registration statement, prospectus and documents, if any, incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein, in each case, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers in underwritten offerings, and, if true, confirm the same if and when requested, (B) if an underwriting agreement has been entered into, the same shall contain indemnification provisions and procedures substantially to the effect set forth in Section 5.9 hereof with respect to all parties to be indemnified pursuant to said Section except as otherwise agreed by the holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities being sold and (C) deliver such documents and certificates as reasonably requested by the holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities being sold, their counsel and the lead managing underwriters(s), if any, to evidence the continued validity of the representations and warranties made pursuant to sub-clause (A) above and to evidence compliance with any customary conditions contained in the underwriting agreement or other agreement entered into by the Company. The above shall be done at each closing under such underwriting or similar agreement, or as and to the extent required thereunder;
 
(x) in connection with an Underwritten Offering, use reasonable best efforts to obtain for the Selling Shareholders and underwriter(s) (A) opinions of counsel for the Company, covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by such Selling Shareholders and underwriters and (B) "comfort" letters and updates thereof (or, in the case of any such Person which does not satisfy the conditions for receipt of a "comfort" letter specified in Statement on Auditing Standards No. 72, an "agreed upon procedures" letter) signed by the independent public accountants who have certified the Company's financial statements included in such registration statement, covering the matters customarily covered in "comfort" letters in connection with underwritten offerings;
(xi) make available for inspection by the Selling Shareholders, any underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to any registration statement, and any attorney, accountant or other agent or representative retained in connection with such offering by such Selling Shareholders or underwriter (collectively, the ""), financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company (collectively, the ""), as shall be reasonably necessary, or as shall otherwise be reasonably requested, to enable them to exercise their due diligence responsibility, and cause the officers, directors and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries to supply all information in each case reasonably requested by any such representative, underwriter, attorney, agent or accountant in connection with such registration statement; , , that the Company shall not be required to provide any information under this clause (xi) if (A) the Company believes, after consultation with counsel for the Company, that to do so would cause the Company to forfeit an attorney-client privilege that was applicable to such information or (B) if either (1) the Company has requested and been granted from the Commission confidential treatment of such information contained in any filing with the Commission or documents provided supplementally or otherwise or (2) the Company reasonably determines in good faith that such Records are confidential and so notifies the Inspectors in writing; unless prior to furnishing any such information with respect to clause (1) or (2) such Selling Shareholder requesting such information enters into, and causes each of its Inspectors to enter into, a confidentiality agreement on terms and conditions reasonably acceptable to the Company; , , that each Selling Shareholder agrees that it will, upon learning that disclosure of such Records is sought in a court of competent jurisdiction or by another Governmental Authority, give notice to the Company and allow the Company, at its expense, to undertake appropriate action seeking to prevent disclosure of the Records deemed confidential;
Inspectors
Records
provided
however
provided
further
(xii) as promptly as practicable notify in writing the Selling Shareholders and the underwriters, if any, of the following events: (A) the filing of the registration statement, any amendment thereto, the prospectus or any prospectus supplement related thereto or post-effective amendment to the registration statement or any Free Writing Prospectus utilized in connection therewith, and, with respect to the registration statement or any post-effective amendment thereto, when the same has become effective; (B) any request by the Commission or any other U.S. or state governmental authority for amendments or supplements to the registration statement or
 
the prospectus or for additional information; (C) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the registration statement or the initiation of any proceedings by any Person for that purpose; (D) the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of any Registrable Securities for sale under the securities or "blue sky" laws of any jurisdiction or the initiation or threat of any proceeding for such purpose; (E) if at any time the representations and warranties of the Company contained in any mutual agreement (including any underwriting agreement) contemplated by Section 5.6(a)(ix) cease to be true and correct in any material respect; and (F) upon the happening of any event that makes any statement made in such registration statement or related prospectus or any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference untrue in any material respect or that requires the making of any changes in such registration statement, prospectus or documents so that, in the case of the registration statement, it will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and that in the case of the prospectus, it will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and, at the request of any Selling Shareholder, promptly prepare and furnish to such Selling Shareholder a reasonable number of copies of a supplement to or an amendment of such registration statement or prospectus as may be necessary so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of such Registrable Securities, such prospectus shall not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
(xiii) use reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of such registration statement, or the lifting of any suspension of the qualification (or exemption from qualification) of any of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction at the earliest reasonable practicable date, except that, subject to the requirements of Section 5.6(a)(v), the Company shall not for any such purpose be required to (A) qualify generally to do business as a foreign corporation in any jurisdiction wherein it would not but for the requirements of this clause (xiii) be obligated to be so qualified, (B) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction or (C) file a general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction;
(xiv) cooperate with the Selling Shareholders and the lead managing underwriter(s) to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates (which shall not bear any restrictive legends unless required under Applicable Law) representing securities sold under any registration statement, and enable such securities to be in such denominations and registered in such names as the lead managing underwriter(s) or such Selling Shareholders may request and keep available and make available to the Company's transfer agent prior to the effectiveness of such registration statement a supply of such certificates;
(xv) cooperate with each seller of Registrable Securities and each underwriter or agent participating in the disposition of such Registrable Securities and
 
their respective counsel in connection with any filings required to be made with FINRA; and
(xvi) have appropriate officers of the Company prepare and make presentations at a reasonable number of "road shows" and before analysts and rating agencies, as the case may be, and other information meetings reasonably organized by the underwriters, take other actions to obtain ratings for any Registrable Securities (if they are eligible to be rated) and otherwise use its reasonable best efforts to cooperate as reasonably requested by the Selling Shareholders and the underwriters in the offering, marketing or selling of the Registrable Securities.
(b) The Company may require each Selling Shareholder and each underwriter, if any, to furnish the Company in writing such information regarding each Selling Shareholder or underwriter and the distribution of such Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing to complete or amend the information required by such registration statement.
(c) Each Selling Shareholder agrees that upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event of the kind described in clauses (B), (C), (D), (E) and (F) of Section 5.6(a)(xii), such Selling Shareholder shall forthwith discontinue such Selling Shareholder's disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to the applicable registration statement and prospectus relating thereto until such Selling Shareholder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended prospectus contemplated by Section
5.6(a)(xi), or until it is advised in writing by the Company that the use of the applicable prospectus may be resumed, and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in such prospectus; , , that the Company shall extend the time periods under Section 5.1(c) with respect to the length of time that the effectiveness of a registration statement must be maintained by the amount of time the holder is required to discontinue disposition of such securities.
provided
however
(d) With a view to making available to the holders of Registrable Securities the benefits of Rule 144 under the Securities Act and any other rule or regulation of the Commission that may at any time permit a holder to sell securities of the Company to the public without registration or pursuant to a registration on Form S-3 (or any successor form), the Company shall:
(i) use reasonable best efforts to make and keep public information available, as those terms are understood and defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act;
(ii) use reasonable best efforts to file with the Commission in a timely manner all reports and other documents required of the Company under the Exchange Act, at any time when the Company is subject to such reporting requirements; and
(iii) furnish to any holder so long as the holder owns Registrable Securities, promptly upon request, a written statement by the Company as to its compliance with the reporting requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act and of the Exchange Act, a copy of the most recent annual or quarterly report of the Company,
 
and such other reports and documents so filed or furnished by the Company with the Commission as such holder may reasonably request in connection with the sale of Registrable Securities without registration (in each case to the extent not readily publicly available).
5.7 . All fees and expenses incident to the Company's performance of its obligations under this Article V, including (a) all registration and filing fees, including all fees and expenses of compliance with securities and "blue sky" laws (including the reasonable and documented fees and disbursements of counsel for the underwriters in connection with "blue sky" qualifications of the Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 5.6(a)(v)) and all fees and expenses associated with filings required to be made with FINRA (including, if applicable, the fees and expenses of any "qualified independent underwriter" as such term is defined in FINRA Rule 5121), (b) all printing (including expenses of printing certificates for the Registrable Securities in a form eligible for deposit with the Depository Trust Company and of printing prospectuses if the printing of prospectuses is requested by a holder of Registrable Securities) and copying expenses, (c) all messenger, telephone and delivery expenses, (d) all fees and expenses of the Company's independent certified public accountants and counsel (including with respect to "comfort" letters and opinions), (e) expenses of the Company incurred in connection with any "road show" and (f) reasonable and documented fees and disbursements of one counsel for all holders of Registrable Securities whose shares are included in a registration statement, which counsel shall be selected by, in the case of a Demand Registration, the Requesting Shareholders, in the case of a Shelf Offering, the Demand Shareholder(s) requesting such offering, or in the case of any other registration, the holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities being sold in connection therewith, shall be borne solely by the Company whether or not any registration statement is filed or becomes effective. In connection with the Company's performance of its obligations under this Article V, the Company will pay its internal expenses (including all salaries and expenses of its officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties and the expense of any annual audit) and the expenses and fees for listing the securities to be registered on each securities exchange and included in each established over-the-counter market on which similar securities issued by the Company are then listed or traded. Each Selling Shareholder shall pay its portion of all underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale of such Selling Shareholder's Registrable Securities pursuant to any registration.
Registration Expenses
5.8 .
Miscellaneous
(a) Not less than ten (10) Business Days before the expected filing date of each registration statement pursuant to this Agreement, the Company shall notify each holder of Registrable Securities who has timely provided the requisite notice hereunder entitling such holder to register Registrable Securities in such registration statement of the information, documents and instruments from such holder that the Company or any underwriter reasonably requests in connection with such registration statement, including a questionnaire, custody agreement, power of attorney, lock-up letter and underwriting agreement (the ""). If the Company has not received, on or before the second Business Day before the expected filing date, the Requested Information from such holder, the Company may file the registration statement without including Registrable Securities of such holder. The failure to so include in any registration statement the Registrable Securities of a holder of Registrable
Requested Information
 
Securities (with regard to that registration statement) shall not result in any liability on the part of the Company to such holder.
(b) The Company shall not grant any demand, piggyback or shelf registration rights the terms of which are more favorable than, senior to or conflict with the rights granted to the holders of Registrable Securities hereunder to any other Person without the prior written consent of Demand Shareholders holding a majority of the Registrable Securities then held by all Demand Shareholders.
5.9 .
Registration Indemnification
(a) The Company agrees, without limitation as to time, to indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by law, each Selling Shareholder and its Affiliates and their respective officers, directors, members, shareholders, employees, managers, partners, accountants, attorneys and agents and each Person who controls (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act and Section 20 of the Exchange Act) such Selling Shareholder or such other indemnified Person and the officers, directors, members, shareholders, employees, managers, partners, accountants, attorneys and agents of each such controlling Person, each underwriter, if any, and each Person who controls (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act and Section 20 of the Exchange Act) such underwriter, from and against all losses, claims, damages, liabilities, costs, expenses (including reasonable expenses of investigation and reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses), judgments, fines, penalties, charges and amounts paid in settlement (collectively, the ""), as incurred, arising out of, caused by, resulting from or relating to any untrue statement (or alleged untrue statement) of a material fact contained in any registration statement, prospectus or preliminary prospectus or Free Writing Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto or any omission (or alleged omission) of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading and (without limitation of the preceding portions of this Section 5.9(a)) will reimburse each such Selling Shareholder, each of its Affiliates, and each of their respective officers, directors, members, shareholders, employees, managers, partners, accountants, attorneys and agents and each such Person who controls each such Selling Shareholder and the officers, directors, members, shareholders, employees, managers, partners, accountants, attorneys and agents of each such controlling Person, each such underwriter and each such Person who controls any such underwriter, for any legal and any other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating and defending or settling any such claim, Loss, damage, liability or action, except insofar as the same are caused by any information furnished in writing to the Company by any other party expressly for use therein.
Losses
(b) In connection with any registration statement in which a Selling Shareholder is participating, without limitation as to time, each such Selling Shareholder shall, severally and not jointly, indemnify the Company, its directors and officers, and each Person who controls (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act and Section 20 of the Exchange Act) the Company, from and against all Losses, as incurred, arising out of, caused by, resulting from or relating to any untrue statement (or alleged untrue statement) of material fact contained in the registration statement, prospectus or preliminary prospectus or Free Writing Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto or any omission (or alleged omission) of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of
 
the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and (without limitation of the preceding portions of this Section
5.9(b)) will reimburse the Company, its directors and officers and each Person who controls the Company (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act and Section 20 of the Exchange Act) for any legal and any other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating and defending or settling any such claim, Loss, damage, liability or action, in each case solely to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or omission is made in such registration statement, prospectus or preliminary prospectus or Free Writing Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Selling Shareholder for inclusion in such registration statement, prospectus or preliminary prospectus or Free Writing Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Selling Shareholder shall be liable under this Section 5.9(b) for amounts in excess of the net proceeds received by such holder in the offering giving rise to such liability.
(c) Any Person entitled to indemnification hereunder shall give prompt written notice to the indemnifying party of any claim with respect to which it seeks indemnification; , , the failure to give such notice shall not release the indemnifying party from its obligation, except to the extent that the indemnifying party has been actually and materially prejudiced by such failure to provide such notice on a timely basis.
provided
however
(d) In any case in which any such action is brought against any indemnified party, and it notifies an indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate therein, and, to the extent that it may wish, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party, and after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof and acknowledging the obligations of the indemnifying party with respect to such proceeding, the indemnifying party will not (so long as it shall continue to have the right to defend, contest, litigate and settle the matter in question in accordance with this paragraph) be liable to such indemnified party hereunder for any legal or other expense subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation, supervision and monitoring (unless (i) such indemnified party reasonably objects to such assumption on the grounds that there may be defenses available to it which are different from or in addition to the defenses available to such indemnifying party and, as a result, a conflict of interest exists or (ii) the indemnifying party shall have failed within a reasonable period of time to assume such defense and the indemnified party is or would reasonably be expected to be materially prejudiced by such delay, in either event the indemnified party shall be promptly reimbursed by the indemnifying party for the expenses incurred in connection with retaining one separate legal counsel (for the avoidance of doubt, for all indemnified parties in connection therewith)). For the avoidance of doubt, notwithstanding any such assumption by an indemnifying party, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel in any such matter and participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party except as provided in the previous sentence. An indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement of an action or claim effected without its consent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed). No matter shall be settled by an indemnifying party without the consent of the indemnified party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), unless such settlement (x) includes as an unconditional term thereof the giving by the claimant or plaintiff to such
 
indemnified party of a release from all liability in respect to such claim or litigation, (y) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party and (z) is settled solely for cash for which the indemnified party would be entitled to indemnification hereunder.
(e) The indemnification provided for under this Agreement shall survive the Transfer of the Registrable Securities and the termination of this Agreement.
(f) If recovery is not available under the foregoing indemnification provisions for any reason or reasons other than as specified therein, any Person who would otherwise be entitled to indemnification by the terms thereof shall nevertheless be entitled to contribution with respect to any Losses with respect to which such Person would be entitled to such indemnification but for such reason or reasons, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the indemnifying party, on the one hand, and such indemnified party, on the other hand, in connection with the actions, statements or omissions that resulted in such Losses as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the indemnifying party and of the indemnified party shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the indemnifying party or by the indemnified party, the Persons' relative knowledge and access to information concerning the matter with respect to which the claim was asserted, the opportunity to correct and prevent any statement or omission, and other equitable considerations appropriate under the circumstances. It is hereby agreed that it would not necessarily be equitable if the amount of such contribution were determined by pro rata or per capita allocation. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not found guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Selling Shareholder shall be required to make a contribution in excess of the amount received by such Selling Shareholder from its sale of Registrable Securities in connection with the offering that gave rise to the contribution obligation.
6.1 . Capitalized terms when used in this Agreement have the following meanings:
Defined Terms
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
AB
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
AB Group
"" means, as of any date of determination, a Person (other than an Investor) that has, directly or indirectly through its Affiliates, whether individually or as a member of a Group, within the five-year period immediately preceding such date of determination, (i) made, engaged in or been a participant in any "solicitation" of "proxies" (as such terms are used in the proxy rules of the Commission) to vote, or advise or knowingly influence any Person with respect to the voting of, any equity securities of any issuer, including in connection with a proposed change
Activist
 
of Control or other extraordinary or fundamental transaction, or a proposal for the election or replacement of directors, not approved (at the time of the first such proposal) by the board of directors of such issuer, (ii) called, or publicly sought to call, a meeting of the shareholders of any issuer or initiated any shareholder proposal for action by shareholders of any issuer, in each case not approved (at the time of the first such action) by the board of directors of such issuer, (iii) otherwise publicly acted, alone or in concert with others, to seek to Control or influence the management or the policies of any issuer (, that this clause (iii) is not intended to include the activities of any member of the board of directors of an issuer, with respect to such issuer, taken in good faith solely in his or her capacity as a director of such issuer), (iv) commenced a "tender offer" (as such term is used in Regulation 14D under the Exchange Act) to acquire the equity securities of an issuer that was not approved (at the time of commencement) by the board of directors of such issuer in a Schedule 14D-9 filed under Regulation 14D under the Exchange Act, or (v) publicly disclosed any intention, plan, arrangement or other Contract to do any of the foregoing.
provided
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Affiliate
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(d)(iii).
Aggregate Volume Limitation
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Applicable Law
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Beneficially Own
"" means (i) any regular quarterly period during which directors and executive officers of the Company are not permitted to trade under the insider trading policy of the Company then in effect and (ii) in the event that the Company determines in good faith that the registration would reasonably be expected to materially adversely affect or materially interfere with any bona fide material financing of the Company or any material transaction under consideration by the Company or would require disclosure of information that has not been, and is not otherwise required to be, disclosed to the public, the premature disclosure of which would materially adversely affect the Company, a period of up to seventy-five (75) days; , that a Blackout Period described in this clause (ii) may not occur more than twice in any period of eighteen (18) consecutive months.
Blackout Period
provided
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1.
Board
"" means a day on which banks are generally open for normal business in New York, New York, which day is not a Saturday or a Sunday.
Business Day
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Call Exercise Period
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Call Option
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other federal agency administering the Securities Act.
Commission
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Company
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Company Common Stock
"" means all information (irrespective of the form of communication, and irrespective of whether obtained prior to or after the date hereof) obtained by or on behalf of an Investor or its Representatives from the Company or its Representatives, the Beneficial Ownership of Shares or through the rights granted pursuant hereto, other than information which (i) was or becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of a breach of this Agreement by such Investor or such of its Representatives, (ii) was or becomes available to such Investor or such of its Representatives on a non-confidential basis from a source other than the Company or its Representatives, or any other Investor or its Representatives, as the case may be, , that the source thereof is not known by such Investor or such of its Representatives to be bound by an obligation of confidentiality, or (iii) is independently developed by such Investor or such of its Representatives without the use of any such information that would otherwise be Confidential Information hereunder. Subject to clauses (i)-(iii) above, Confidential Information also includes (a) all non-public information previously provided by the Company or its Representatives under the provisions of any confidentiality agreement between the Company, the Investors or their respective Affiliates or Representatives, including the Confidentiality Agreement, including all information, documents and reports referred to thereunder, (b) subject to any disclosures permitted under Section 7.07 of the Purchase Agreement, all non-public understandings, agreements and other arrangements between and among the Company and the Investors, and (c) all other non-public information received from, or otherwise relating to, the Company, its subsidiaries and any Investor or any other investor in any of the foregoing.
Confidential Information
provided
"" means the Confidentiality Agreement, dated as of June 17, 2011, between Gibco and the Company.
Confidentiality Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Consent
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Contract
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
Control
"" means any Affiliate of the specified Person that is, directly or indirectly, Controlled by the specified Person.
Controlled Affiliate
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.14.
Darrois
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1(a).
Demand
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1(a).
Demand Registration
"" means any SP Investor or any KKR Investor, in either case that holds Registrable Securities.
Demand Shareholder
 
"" means any Person (i) set forth on (and any successor thereof) or (ii) who, as of any time of determination, engages in the retail pharmacy, pharmaceutical wholesale, pharmaceutical pre-wholesale or pharmacy benefit management services businesses, other than to a extent.
Designated Entity
Schedule I
de minimis
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.10(a).
Dispute
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1.
DM
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(c)(iv).
Exchange Transferee
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.14.
Existing Counsel
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
First Step Closing
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
First Step Closing Date
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
First Step Company Shares
"" means the period beginning on the First Step Closing Date and ending on the earlier of (a) the date immediately following the final day of the Standstill Period and (b) the Second Step Closing Date, if any.
First Step Ownership Period
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
First Step Purchase Price
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(a).
First Step Restricted Period
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
First Step Walgreens Shares
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(g).
Foreign or State Act
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.3(a).
Form S-3
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.6(a)(iv).
Free Writing Prospectus
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Gibco
"" has the meaning set forth in the Shareholders Agreement.
Gibco Principal Investors
"" means any federal, national, state, local, cantonal, municipal, international or multinational government or political subdivision thereof, governmental department, commission, board, bureau, agency, taxing or regulatory authority, instrumentality or judicial or administrative body, or arbitrator or SRO, having jurisdiction over the matter or matters in question.
Governmental Authority
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
Group
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.10(b).
ICC
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(d)(iii).
Individual Volume Limitation
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Initial Investors
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Initial KKR Investors
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Initial Other Investor
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Initial Primary Investors
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Initial SP Investors
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.6(a)(xi).
Inspectors
"" means each and every certificate, memorandum or articles of incorporation or association, bylaws, limited liability company operating agreement, limited partnership agreement and any other organizational document of, and each and every insurance policy maintained by, the SP Investors, KKR, the KKR Investors or their respective Affiliates, as applicable, providing for, among other things, indemnification of and advancement of expenses for the SP Investor Director and the KKR Investor Director, as applicable, for, among other things, the same matters that are subject to indemnification and advancement of expenses under this Agreement.
Investor Indemnification Agreements
"" means the SP Investors and the KKR Investors and their respective Affiliates, as applicable, in their capacity as indemnitors to the SP Investor Director and KKR Investor Director, as applicable, under the applicable Investor Indemnification Agreements.
Investor Indemnitors
"" means the KKR Investors, the SP Investors and the Other Investors.
Investors
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
KKR
"" means any investment fund, separate account or other similar investment vehicle that is, directly or indirectly, managed or advised by KKR or any of its Controlled Affiliates.
KKR Investment Fund
"" means, subject to Section 1.3, an individual (who must be an employee of KKR or one of its Controlled Affiliates) designated in writing by the KKR Investors for election or appointment to the Board.
KKR Investor Designee
"" means a KKR Investor Designee who has been elected or appointed to the Board.
KKR Investor Director
"" shall be deemed to occur if (i) as of the end of any Business Day following the earlier to occur of (a) the Second Step Closing Date and (b) the date of termination of the Purchase Agreement with respect to the Second Step Acquisition, the KKR Investors Beneficially Own less than the lesser of (x) 4% of the Total Voting Power or the Total
KKR Investor Rights Termination Event
 
Economic Interest and (y) 65% of the Shares Beneficially Owned by the KKR Investors as of immediately following the Second Closing (, that, if the Purchase Agreement is terminated with respect to the Second Step Acquisition without the Second Closing having occurred, then as of immediately following the First Step Closing) or (ii) KKR, any KKR Investment Fund or any of their respective Affiliates (in each case, excluding any KKR Non-Private Equity Business) Beneficially Owns 5% or more of the outstanding voting securities of a Walgreens Specified Person; , that, for purposes of clause (ii), in the case of the acquisition of such Beneficial Ownership in a Walgreens Specified Person listed on part (B) of , KKR shall (to the extent practicable) notify the Company in advance of such acquisition (and, in any event, no later than promptly following such acquisition), KKR and the Company shall thereafter discuss in good faith the effect of such acquisition on the service of any KKR Investor Designee on the Board, and the Board and the Company generally, and the Company shall, in its sole discretion, determine whether a KKR Investor Rights Termination Event shall be deemed to have occurred.
provided
provided
Schedule II
"" means (i) the Initial KKR Investors, (ii) any Permitted Transferee of any Initial KKR Investor that is Transferred Shares by such Initial KKR Investor in compliance with the terms of this Agreement and (iii) any Permitted Transferee of any of the Persons included in clause (ii) of this definition that is Transferred Shares by such Person in compliance with the terms of this Agreement.
KKR Investors
"" means any business or investment of KKR and its Affiliates distinct from the private equity business of KKR and its Affiliates; , that such business or investment shall not be deemed to be distinct from such private equity business if and at such time that (i) any Confidential Information with respect to the Company is made available to executives or other investment professionals of KKR and its Affiliates who are not involved in the private equity business and who are involved in such other business or investment or (ii) KKR or any of its Affiliates instructs or overtly encourages any such business or investment to take any action that would violate any provision of this Agreement that would be applicable to such business or investment were it to be deemed to be a KKR Investor hereunder.
KKR Non-Private Equity Business
provided
"" means, during the First Step Ownership Period, 5% of the Total Voting Power or the Total Economic Interest, and during the Second Step Ownership Period, 10% of the Total Voting Power or the Total Economic Interest; provided, that, in either case, the effect of any share repurchases by the Company shall not be counted for purposes of any measurement of the KKR Ownership Limit (and, for the avoidance of doubt, none of the KKR Investors shall be required to sell or otherwise dispose of any shares of Company Common Stock as a consequence of any such repurchase or any other similar action undertaken by the Company) unless and until any KKR Investor has acquired Beneficial Ownership of additional Voting Securities following such repurchase; , , that the parties hereto acknowledge and agree that with respect to any measurement of the KKR Ownership Limit (and the KKR Investors' compliance therewith) for purposes of this Agreement following the Second Step Closing and until the final Transfer by Gibco of 100% of the Second Step Walgreens Shares to either the Shareholder Distributees and/or the Company pursuant to Section 7.16 and Article X of the Purchase Agreement, the KKR Investors shall be deemed to have already received and to continue Beneficially Own all of the Second Step Walgreens Shares that the KKR Investors would have
KKR Ownership Limit
provided
further
 
received if Gibco Transferred 100% of the Second Step Walgreens Shares solely to the Shareholder Distributees on the Second Step Closing Date.
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.6(c).
KKR Related Persons
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Limited Guarantees
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.9(a).
Losses
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.3(e).
Marketed Underwritten Shelf Offering
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
MEP Agreement
"" means the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Company or any such successor committee.
Nominating and Governance Committee
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.13.
Non-Liable Person
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Order
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.2(b).
Other Demanding Sellers
"" means (i) Initial Other Investors that are Shareholder Distributees of Gibco, (ii) any Permitted Transferee of any Initial Other Investor that is a Shareholder Distributee of Gibco, which Permitted Transferee is Transferred Shares by such Initial Other Investor in compliance with the terms of this Agreement and (iii) any Permitted Transferee of any of the Persons included in clause (ii) of this definition, which Permitted Transferee is Transferred Shares by such Person in compliance with the terms of this Agreement.
Other Gibco Investors
"" means (i) the Other Gibco Investors and (ii) the Other MEP Investors.
Other Investors
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a)(ii).
Other MEP Bare Trustee
"" means (i) Initial Other Investors that receive First Step Walgreens Shares or Second Step Walgreens Shares, as applicable, pursuant to the MEP Agreement or the MEP Restructuring, (ii) any Permitted Transferee of any Initial Other Investor included in clause (i) of this definition, which Permitted Transferee is Transferred Shares by such Initial Other Investor in compliance with the terms of this Agreement and (iii) any Permitted Transferee of any of the Persons included in clause (ii) of this definition, which Permitted Transferee is Transferred Shares by such Person in compliance with the terms of this Agreement.
Other MEP Investors
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.2(b).
Other Proposed Sellers
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(c).
Permitted Transfer
"" means (a) with respect to the Initial SP Investors (i) SP; (ii) any Person (other than an individual) (x) that is wholly-owned directly or indirectly by SP and the Serenity Trust and no other Person and (y) with respect to which SP controls directly or indirectly 100% of the voting power; (iii)(x) a spouse (which for the purposes of this Agreement shall include
Permitted Transferee
 
Ornella Barra), lineal descendant (whether natural or adopted), sibling or parent of SP or (y) upon SP's death, an heir, executor, administrator, testamentary trustee, legatee or beneficiary of SP; (iv) a foundation or similar entity established by SP for the purpose of serving charitable goals, Controlled by the Persons named in clause (iii); (v) the Serenity Trust, a Cayman Island Trust, and any other trust, the beneficiaries of which include only the Persons named in clause (iii) or (iv); and (v) any corporation, limited liability company or partnership, the shareholders, members or general or limited partners of which include only the Persons named in clause (i), (ii) or (iii); (b) with respect to any Investor that is not an individual, any Affiliate of such Investor; and (c) with respect to any Investor that is an individual (i) (x) a spouse, lineal descendant (whether natural or adopted), sibling or parent of such Investor or (y) upon such Investor's death, an heir, executor, administrator, testamentary trustee, legatee or beneficiary of such Investor; (ii) a foundation or similar entity established by such Investor for the purpose of serving charitable goals, Controlled by the Persons named in clause (i); (iii) any trust, the beneficiaries of which include only the Persons named in clause (i) or (ii); and (iv) any corporation, limited liability company or partnership, the shareholders, members or general or limited partners of which include only the Persons named in clause (i), (ii) or (iii); , in the case of any of clause (a), clause (b) or clause (c), that such Transferee would continue to qualify as a Permitted Transferee of the applicable Transferor if such Transfer were to take place as of any time of determination (and, in the event that such Transferee would no longer so qualify, such Transferee shall immediately Transfer back the Transferred securities to such Transferor and such Transfer shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be null and void , and the Company shall no longer, and shall instruct its transfer agent and other third parties to no longer, record or recognize such Transfer on the share register of the Company).
provided
ab
initio
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Person
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.2(a).
Piggyback Notice
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.2(a).
Piggyback Registration
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.2(a).
Piggyback Seller
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(a).
Pre-Second Step Restricted Period
"" means the letter agreements executed and delivered by the Gibco Principal Investors and the Company on the date of the Purchase Agreement and attached as thereto.
Principal Investor Side Letters
Exhibit C
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Proceeding
"" means any Designated Entity or any Activist.
Prohibited Transferee
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Purchase Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.6(a)(xi).
Records
"" means an amount of Registrable Securities having an aggregate value of at least $250 million (based on the anticipated offering price (as reasonably determined in good
Registrable Amount
 
faith by the Company)), without regard to any underwriting discount or commission, or such lesser amount of Registrable Securities as would result in the disposition of all of the Registrable Securities Beneficially Owned by the applicable Requesting Shareholder; , that such lesser amount shall have an aggregate value of at least $100 million (based on the anticipated offering price (as reasonably determined in good faith by the Company)), without regard to any underwriting discount or commission.
provided
"" means (a) following the expiration of the First Step Restricted Period, the First Step Walgreens Shares held by the SP Investors, the First Step Walgreens Shares held by the KKR Investors and the First Step Walgreens Shares held by any Other Gibco Investor and (b) following the expiration of the Second Step Restricted Period, the First Step Walgreens Shares and Second Step Walgreens Shares held by the SP Investors, the First Step Walgreens Shares and Second Step Walgreens Shares held by the KKR Investors and the First Step Walgreens Shares and Second Step Walgreens Shares held by any Other Gibco Investor; , that any such Shares shall cease to be Registrable Securities when (i) they are sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, (ii) they are sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act or (iii) they shall have ceased to be outstanding.
Registrable Securities
provided
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.6(c).
Representatives
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.8(a).
Requested Information
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1(a).
Requesting Shareholders
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b).
Restricted Periods
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.10(b).
Rules
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Second Step Closing
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Second Step Closing Date
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Second Step Company Shares
"" means the period beginning on the Second Step Closing Date and ending on the date immediately following the final day of the Standstill Period.
Second Step Ownership Period
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Second Step Purchase Price
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b).
Second Step Restricted Period
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Second Step Walgreens Shares
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Seller
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.6(a)(i).
Selling Shareholders
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Senior Manager
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Shareholders Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Shareholder Distributees
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Shares
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.3(a).
Shelf Notice
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.3(e).
Shelf Offering
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.3(a).
Shelf Registration Statement
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
SP
"" means, as at any time of measurement during the First Step Ownership Period, the sum of (A) 95 million shares of Company Common Stock (B) from and after the date on which the aggregate number of shares of Company Common Stock Beneficially Owned by the SP Investors equals 95 million shares, only such additional shares of Company Common Stock that are purchased by the SP Investors solely through the reinvestment of dividends paid on any shares of Company Common Stock Beneficially Owned by the SP Investors as of the dividend record date; it being acknowledged and agreed that the only shares of Company Common Stock that the SP Investors may acquire at any time during the First Step Ownership Period in excess of 95 million shall be shares acquired through the reinvestment of dividends.
SP First Step Ownership Limit
plus
"" means, subject to Section 1.3, an individual designated in writing by the SP Investors for election or appointment to the Board; , that, other than SP, such individual may not be a (i) current director, officer or employee of AB or any of its Controlled Affiliates, or any of the foregoing during the last three years prior to the time of measurement or (ii) a current or former director, officer or employee of Walgreens or any of its Controlled Affiliates (other than any former director, officer or employee of Fox).
SP Investor Designee
provided
"" means an SP Investor Designee who has been elected or appointed to the Board.
SP Investor Director
"" shall be deemed to occur (i) if, as of the end of any Business Day following the earliest to occur of (a) the Second Step Closing Date and (b) the termination of the Purchase Agreement with respect to the Second Step Acquisition: (x) the SP Investors Beneficially Own less than 5% of the Total Voting Power and (y) SP is no longer serving as Executive Chairman or Chief Executive Officer of AB or, notwithstanding such title, is no longer actively involved in an operational and management capacity in the business activities and operational decisions of AB, Walgreens and its subsidiaries.
SP Investor Rights Termination Event
"" means (i) the Initial SP Investors, (ii) any Permitted Transferee of an Initial SP Investor that is Transferred Shares by such Initial SP Investor in compliance with the terms of this Agreement and (iii) any Permitted Transferee of any of the Persons included in clause (ii) of
SP Investors
 
this definition that is Transferred Shares by such Person in compliance with the terms of this Agreement and (iv) any Exchange Transferee of any of the Persons included in clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) that is Transferred Shares by such Person in compliance with the terms of this Agreement.
"" means, during the First Step Ownership Period, the SP First Step Ownership Limit, and during the Second Step Ownership Period, the SP Second Step Ownership Limit.
SP Ownership Limit
"" means, as at any time of measurement during the Second Step Ownership Period, the sum of (A) 167 million shares of Company Common Stock (B) from and after the date on which the aggregate number of shares of Company Common Stock Beneficially Owned by the SP Investors equals 167 million shares, only such additional shares of Company Common Stock that are purchased by the SP Investors solely through the reinvestment of dividends paid on any shares of Company Common Stock Beneficially Owned by the SP Investors as of the dividend record date; it being acknowledged and agreed that (i) the only shares of Company Common Stock that the SP Investors may acquire at any time in excess of 167 million shall be shares acquired through the reinvestment of dividends and (ii) with respect to any measurement of the SP Second Step Ownership Limit (and the SP Investors' compliance therewith) for purposes of this Agreement from and after the Second Step Closing until the final Transfer by Gibco of 100% of the Second Step Walgreens Shares to either the Shareholder Distributees and/or the Company pursuant to Section 7.16 and Article X of the Purchase Agreement, the SP Investors shall be deemed to have already received and to continue to Beneficially Own the sum of (A) the number of shares of Company Common Stock equal to the product of (x) the SP Sharing Percentage (y) the Second Step Walgreens Shares (B) the number of shares of Company Common Stock equal to the product of (x) the SP Sharing Percentage (y) the Second Step Cash Consideration (z) the Thirty Day VWAP (calculated in U.S. Dollars) of the shares of Company Common Stock as of the Second Step Closing Date.
SP Second Step Ownership Limit
plus
multiplied by
plus
multiplied by
divided by
"" means a fraction, expressed as a percentage, (x) the numerator of which is the total equity invested by the Initial SP Investors in Gibco and (y) the denominator of which is the total equity invested in Gibco by all the Initial SP Investors, all the Initial KKR Investors and all the other Gibco Investors.
SP Sharing Percentage
"" means (i) any "self regulatory organization" as defined in Section 3(a)(26) of the Exchange Act, (ii) any other United States or foreign securities exchange, futures exchange, commodities exchange or contract market, or (iii) any other securities exchange.
SRO
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(b).
Standstill Period
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.14.
STB
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.3(e).
Take-Down Notice
"" means, as of any date of determination, the total economic interests of all Voting Securities then outstanding. The percentage of the Total Economic Interest Beneficially Owned by any Person as of any date of determination is the percentage of the Total Economic Interest then Beneficially Owned by such Person, including pursuant to any swaps or
Total Economic Interest
 
any other agreements, transactions or series of transactions, whether any such swap, agreement, transaction or series of transaction is to be settled by delivery of securities, in cash or otherwise.
"" means, as of any date of determination, the total number of votes that may be cast in the election of directors of the Company if all Voting Securities then outstanding were present and voted at a meeting held for such purpose. The percentage of the Total Voting Power Beneficially Owned by any Person as of any date of determination is the percentage of the Total Voting Power of the Company that is represented by the total number of votes that may be cast in the election of directors of the Company by Voting Securities then Beneficially Owned by such Person.
Total Voting Power
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Transactions
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Transaction Documents
"" means (i) any direct or indirect offer, sale, lease, assignment, encumbrance, pledge, hypothecation, disposition or other transfer (by operation of law or otherwise), either voluntary or involuntary, or entry into any contract, option or other arrangement or understanding with respect to any offer, sale, lease, assignment, encumbrance, pledge, hypothecation, disposition or other transfer (by operation of law or otherwise), of any capital stock or interest in any capital stock or (ii) in respect of any capital stock or interest in any capital stock, to enter into any swap or any other agreement, transaction or series of transactions that hedges or transfers, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, the economic consequence of ownership of such capital stock or interest in capital stock, whether any such swap, agreement, transaction or series of transaction is to be settled by delivery of securities, in cash or otherwise. "" means a Person that Transfers or proposes to Transfer; and "" means a Person to whom a Transfer is made or is proposed to be made.
Transfer
Transferor
Transferee
"" means a sale of securities of the Company to an underwriter or underwriters for reoffering to the public.
Underwritten Offering
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.2(e).
Unpaid Indemnitee Amounts
"" means shares of Common Stock and any other securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the Company.
Voting Securities
"" means any Person set forth on (and any successor thereof).
Walgreens Specified Person
Schedule II
6.2 . Whenever used: the words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation", and the words "hereof" and "herein" and similar words shall be construed as references to this Agreement as a whole and not limited to the particular Article, Section, Annex, Exhibit or Schedule in which the reference appears. Unless the context otherwise requires, references herein: (x) to Articles, Sections, Annexes, Exhibits and Schedules mean the Articles, Sections and Annexes of, and Exhibits and Schedules attached to, this Agreement; (y) to an agreement, instrument or other document means such agreement, instrument or other document as amended, supplemented and modified from time to time to the extent permitted by the provisions thereof and (z) to a statute means such
Interpretation
 
statute as amended from time to time and includes any successor legislation thereto and any regulations promulgated thereunder. References to "$" or "dollars" means United States dollars. Any reference in this Agreement to any gender shall include all genders. The meanings of defined terms are equally applicable to the singular and plural forms of the defined terms. The Annexes, Exhibits and Schedules referred to herein shall be construed with, and as an integral part of, this Agreement to the same extent as if they were set forth verbatim herein. The headings of the Articles and Sections are for convenience of reference only and do not affect the interpretation of any of the provisions hereof. If, and as often as, there is any change in the outstanding shares of Company Common Stock by reason of stock dividends, splits, reverse splits, spin-offs, split-ups, mergers, reclassifications, reorganizations, recapitalizations, combinations or exchanges of shares and the like, appropriate adjustment shall be made in the provisions of this Agreement so as to fairly and equitably preserve, as far as practicable, the rights and obligations set forth therein that continue to be applicable on the date of such change. No rule of construction against the draftsperson shall be applied in connection with the interpretation or enforcement of this Agreement, as this Agreement is the product of negotiation between sophisticated parties advised by counsel.
7.1 . This Agreement will be effective as of the date hereof and shall automatically terminate upon the date that the SP Investors and the KKR Investors, in the aggregate, Beneficially Own less than 2% of the Total Voting Power, so long as, as of such date, all of the then-remaining Registrable Securities Beneficially Owned by the SP Investors and all of the then-remaining Registrable Securities Beneficially Owned by the KKR Investors, in each case, may be sold in a single transaction without limitation under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section 7.1, this Agreement shall become void and of no further force and effect, except for the provisions set forth in Section 1.6(c) (which shall survive termination of this Agreement for a period of five (5) years), Section 5.9, Section 6.2 and this Article VII, and except that no termination hereof pursuant to this Section 7.1 shall have the effect of shortening the Standstill Period or the period defined by clause (1) or (2) of the first sentence of Section 3.1.
Term
7.2 .
Notices
(a) Notices and other statements in connection with this Agreement shall be in writing in the English language and shall be delivered by hand, facsimile or overnight courier to the recipient's facsimile number or address as set forth below or to such other facsimile number or address as a party hereto may notify to the other parties hereto from time to time and shall be given:
(i) if to the Company, to:
 
 
(ii) if to SP or an SP Investor, to:
 
(iii) if to KKR or a KKR Investor, to:
 
 
(iv) if to an Other Investor, to the address of such Other Investor as set forth in the applicable joinder pursuant to which such Other Investor became party to this Agreement.
(b) A notice shall be effective upon receipt and shall be deemed to have been received:
(i) at the time of delivery, if delivered by hand, or overnight courier; or
(ii) at the time of transmission in legible form if received prior to 5:00 p.m. local time on such date or at the beginning of the recipient's next Business Day if received after 5:00 p.m. local time on such date or such date is not a Business Day, if delivered by fax.
7.3 . Any determination, consent or approval of, or notice or request delivered by, or any similar action of, the SP Investors, the KKR Investors or the Investors, as applicable, shall be made by, and shall be valid and binding upon, all SP Investors, all KKR Investors or all Investors, respectively, if made by (i) in the case of the SP Investors, the SP Investors Beneficially Owning a majority of the Total Voting Power then Beneficially Owned by all SP Investors, (ii) in the case of the KKR Investors, the KKR Investors Beneficially Owning a majority of the Total Voting Power then Beneficially Owned by all KKR Investors and (iii) in the case of all Investors, a majority of the Total Voting Power then Beneficially Owned by all Investors.
Investor Actions
7.4 . No provision of this Agreement may be amended or modified unless such amendment or modification is in writing and signed by (i) the Company, (ii) the SP Investors Beneficially Owning a majority of the Total Voting Power then Beneficially Owned by all SP Investors, (iii) the KKR Investors Beneficially Owning a majority of the Total Voting Power then Beneficially Owned by all KKR Investors and (iv) Investors Beneficially Owning a majority of the Total Voting Power then Beneficially Owned by all Investors. No failure or delay by any party in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies herein provided shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by Applicable Law.
Amendments and Waivers
7.5 . Neither this Agreement nor any of the rights or obligations hereunder shall be assigned by any of the parties hereto without the prior written
Successors and Assigns
 
consent of the other parties. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement will be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties and their respective successors and assigns. Any attempted assignment in violation of this Section 7.5 shall be void.
7.6 . It is the intent of the parties that the provisions of this Agreement shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible under Applicable Law and public policies applied in each jurisdiction in which enforcement is sought. If any particular provision or portion of this Agreement shall be adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such provision or portion thereof shall be deemed amended to the minimum extent necessary to render such provision or portion valid and enforceable, and such amendment will apply only with respect to the operation of such provision or portion in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.
Severability
7.7 . This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall become effective when counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other parties, it being understood that each party need not sign the same counterpart.
Counterparts
7.8 . This Agreement (including the documents and the instruments referred to in this Agreement), together with the other Transaction Documents, constitutes the entire agreement and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, between the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
7.9 . This Agreement, and any claim hereunder, shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the substantive laws of the State of New York, United States of America, without reference to conflict of law principles, that the Illinois Business Corporation Act shall govern to the extent mandatorily applicable to Illinois corporations.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction
provided
7.10 .
Dispute Resolution; Consent to Arbitration
(a) If any dispute, controversy or claim arises out of or in connection with this Agreement or the other Transaction Documents, including any question regarding its existence, validity, termination, breach or interpretation or any dispute regarding the validity, amount or liability for any claim arising hereunder (a ""), the parties hereto shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to resolve the matter amicably. If one party gives another party (or parties) hereto notice that a Dispute with respect of Article I or Article III hereof has arisen and the applicable parties are unable to resolve such Dispute within 20 days of service of such notice, then the Dispute shall be referred to SP (or, in the event of his death or permanent disability, any other individual designated by the SP Investors Beneficially Owning a majority of the Total Voting Power then Beneficially Owned by all SP Investors), DM (or any other individual designated by the KKR Investors Beneficially Owning a majority of the Total Voting Power then Beneficially Owned by all KKR Investors) and Gregory D. Wasson (or his successor as chief executive officer of Walgreens), who shall attempt to resolve the Dispute. No party shall resort to arbitration against another with respect to any such Dispute under this Agreement until 20 days after such referral.
Dispute
 
(b) Any Dispute in respect of Article I or Article III hereof which remains unresolved pursuant to Section 7.10(a) 20 days after such referral, or any Dispute in respect of any other provisions hereof, which a party wishes to have resolved shall be referred upon the application of any party hereto to, and finally resolved by, arbitration under the Rules of Arbitration (the "") in force at the date of this Agreement of the International Chamber of Commerce's International Court of Arbitration (the "") and shall be administered by the ICC. The seat, or legal place, of arbitration shall be New York, New York. The language to be used in the arbitration proceedings shall be English and all submissions shall be made in English. The substantive laws of New York shall be applicable to the merits of the Dispute (except where the substantive laws of Illinois shall mandatorily apply, in which case such laws shall be applicable to the merits of the Dispute). The tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators nominated pursuant to Article 12 of the Rules.
Rules
ICC
(c) Each party hereto acknowledges and agrees that the arbitrators shall have the power to grant any remedy or relief available under Applicable Law, including but not limited to injunctive relief, whether interim and/or final, and specific performance pursuant to Article 28 of the Rules, and any measures ordered by the arbitrators may be specifically enforced by any court of competent jurisdiction. Each party hereto retains the right to seek interim or provisional measures, including injunctive relief and including pre-arbitral attachments or injunctions, from any court of competent jurisdiction, and any such request shall not be deemed incompatible with the agreement to arbitrate or a waiver of the right to arbitrate.
(d) Each party hereto agrees that any arbitral proceedings under this Agreement and any arbitral proceedings under the Purchase Agreement and any of the other Transaction Documents and any other agreements between the parties hereto or their Affiliates in connection with the Transactions (including the Shareholders Agreement) may (to the extent the arbitral tribunal considers appropriate given the subject matter of the particular Dispute) be consolidated or be heard together concurrently before the same arbitral tribunal. The parties hereto further agree that any arbitral tribunal constituted under this Agreement shall have the power to order consolidation of proceedings or concurrent hearings.
(e) The parties hereto do not authorize the arbitral tribunal, and the arbitral tribunal shall have no power or jurisdiction to: (i) alter or modify, or substitute its own interpretation of, any of the express terms, provisions or conditions of this Agreement, but shall enforce the contract strictly as drafted according to its terms or (ii) settle or resolve any Dispute by amiable composition or or by arbitration in equity.
ex aequo et bono
(f) Each party hereto irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for the giving of notices pursuant to Section 7.2 of this Agreement. Nothing in this Section 7.10 shall affect the right of any party to serve process in any other manner permitted by Law.
7.11 . The parties hereto agree that monetary damages would not be an adequate remedy in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with their specific terms. It is expressly agreed that the parties hereto shall be entitled to equitable relief, including injunctive relief and specific performance of the terms hereof, this being in addition to any other remedies to which they are entitled at law or in
Specific Performance
 
equity.
7.12 . Nothing in this Agreement shall confer any rights upon any Person other than the parties hereto and each such party's respective heirs, successors and permitted assigns; , that the Persons indemnified under Section 5.9 are intended third party beneficiaries of Section 5.9, and Non-Liable Persons are intended third party beneficiaries of Section 7.13.
No Third Party Beneficiaries
provided
7.13 . Except as expressly set forth in the Principal Investor Side Letters or, upon execution and delivery thereof, if any, at the Second Step Closing in accordance with the Purchase Agreement, the Limited Guarantees, notwithstanding anything that may be expressed or implied in this Agreement, and notwithstanding the fact that any party hereto may be a partnership or limited liability company, each party hereto, by its acceptance of the benefits of this Agreement, covenants, agrees and acknowledges that no Persons other than the named parties hereto shall have any obligation hereunder and that it has no rights or recovery hereunder against, and no recourse hereunder or in respect of any oral representations made or alleged to be made in connection herewith or therewith shall be had against, any former, current or future director, officer, agent, Affiliate, manager, assignee, incorporator, controlling Person, fiduciary, representative or employee of any Investor (or any of their heirs, successors or permitted assigns), or against any former, current or future director, officer, agent, employee, Affiliate, manager, assignee, incorporator, controlling Person, fiduciary, representative, general or limited partner, stockholder, manager or member of any of the foregoing Persons, but in each case not including the named parties hereto (each, a ""), whether by or through attempted piercing of the corporate veil, by or through a claim (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) by or on behalf of such party against any Non-Liable Person, by the enforcement of any assignment or by any legal or equitable proceeding, or by virtue of any statute, regulation or other Applicable Law or otherwise; it being expressly agreed and acknowledged that except as expressly set forth in Principal Investor Side Letters or the Limited Guarantees, no personal liability whatsoever shall attach to, be imposed on or otherwise be incurred by any Non-Liable Person, as such, for any obligations of the applicable party under this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, in respect of any oral representations made or alleged to have been made in connection herewith or therewith or for any claim (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) based on, in respect of or by reason of, such obligations or their creation.
No Recourse
Non-Liable Person
7.14 . It is acknowledged by each of the parties hereto that Gibco and AB have retained Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP (""), Darrois Villey Maillot Brochier AARPI (""), Niederer Kraft & Frey Ltd. and Clifford Chance LLP (collectively, "") to act as counsel in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and otherwise. All of the parties hereto recognize the community of interest that exists and will continue to exist until the First Step Closing and the Second Step Closing, and the parties hereto agree that such community of interest should continue to be recognized after each respective date thereof. To the extent that any material subject to the attorney-client privilege, or any other applicable legal privilege, as regards Gibco or the AB Group, has been shared between them, whether prior to or after the date hereof, it is the desire, intention and mutual understanding of the parties hereto that the sharing of such material is not intended to, and shall not, waive or diminish in any way such material's continued protection under attorney-client or any other applicable legal privilege. Specifically, the parties hereto agree that (a) the Company shall not,
Conflicts and Privilege
STB
Darrois
Existing Counsel
 
and from and after the Second Step Closing shall cause AB not to, seek to have any Existing Counsel disqualified from representing Gibco or AB or any member of the AB Group in any dispute (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) based upon, arising out of or related to this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated hereunder in whole or in part and (b) in connection with any dispute that may arise, prior to the Second Step Closing, between Gibco or AB or any member of the AB Group, on the one hand, and Walgreens, on the other hand or, from and after the Second Step Closing, Walgreens or AB or any member of the AB Group on the one hand, and Gibco, on the other hand, Gibco and its Affiliates involved in such dispute (and not AB or any member of the AB Group) will have the sole and exclusive right to decide whether or not to waive any attorney-client or other applicable privilege that may apply to any communications between Gibco, AB or any other member of the AB Group and any Existing Counsel that occurred on or prior to the Second Step Closing.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement by their authorized representatives as of the date first above written.
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexes:
 
 
 
This Shareholders' Agreement (this "") is entered into as of August 2, 2012, by and among Alliance Boots GmbH, a private limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Switzerland, having its registered office at Baarerstrasse 94, CH 6300 Zug, Switzerland and registered in the Register of Commerce of the Canton of Zug under No. CH-170.4.007-953-1 (the ""), AB Acquisitions Holdings Limited, a private limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Gibraltar, having its registered office at 57/63 Line Wall Road, Gibraltar and registered under No. 98476 (""), and Walgreen Co., a corporation organized under the laws of Illinois ("" and, together with Gibco and any other shareholders of the Company who become party to this Agreement from time to time pursuant to and in accordance with the terms hereof, the "" and each, individually, a "").
Agreement
Company
Gibco
Walgreens
Shareholders
Shareholder
WHEREAS, Gibco, Walgreens and the Company entered into a Purchase and Option Agreement, dated as of June 18, 2012 (as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), pursuant to and subject to the terms and conditions of which, among other things, Walgreens (or a wholly owned Affiliate thereof) acquired at the First Step Closing (as defined below): (i) a minority stake of 45% of the outstanding Ordinary Shares (as defined below) of the Company from Gibco and (ii) an option, exercisable at its sole discretion (subject to the Clawback Option (as defined below)), during the Call Exercise Period (as defined below), to purchase the remaining 55% of the Shares of the Company from Gibco;
Purchase Agreement
WHEREAS, immediately following the First Step Closing (as defined below) and as of the date hereof, Gibco and Walgreens Beneficially Own (as defined below) and own as of record the respective amounts of the issued and outstanding Shares set forth in to this Agreement;
Schedule I
WHEREAS, each party acknowledges that it understands that the shareholders agreement among the shareholders of Gibco provide for the joint control of Gibco by the KKR Principal Investors and the SP Principal Investors through, in addition to their respective ownership of 50% of the voting stock of Gibco, among other things, their rights to designate the appointment and removal of directors on the board of directors of Gibco, the right to be present at meetings of the board of directors of Gibco in order for a quorum to be formed and the right to approve significant matters and transactions by Gibco and (to the extent of Gibco's rights) by its Subsidiaries, and that such shareholders agreement as heretofore amended (including for purposes of rendering such agreement not inconsistent with the terms hereof) continues in effect as between Gibco and the Principal Investors as of the date hereof.
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition precedent to the respective obligations of Gibco and Walgreens to consummate the First Step Closing; and
WHEREAS, the Company and each of the Shareholders desire to enter into this Agreement to set forth certain terms and conditions concerning the relationship between the
Shareholders and to provide for the orderly governance and management of the Company and the Group (as defined below) and such other matters set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the covenants and obligations hereinafter set forth, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, intending to be legally bound, the parties hereby agree as follows:
Section 1.1. . As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Certain Defined Terms
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
AB Group
"" means, with respect to any Person, another Person controlled directly or indirectly by such first Person, controlling directly or indirectly such first Person or directly or indirectly under common control with such first Person, and "" shall have a meaning correlative to the foregoing; , that for purposes of this Agreement (i) neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed an Affiliate of any Shareholder (and vice versa); (ii) the Serenity Trust shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of SP; and (iii) for the avoidance of doubt, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P., SP and each of their respective Affiliates shall be deemed to be Affiliates of Gibco; , , that an Affiliate shall not include any "portfolio company" (as such term is customarily used among institutional investors) of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. so long as such portfolio company has not received any Confidential Information and none of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. or any of its controlled Affiliates instructs or overtly encourages any such portfolio company to take any action that would violate any provision of this Agreement that would be applicable to such portfolio company were it to be deemed to be an Affiliate hereunder.
Affiliate
Affiliated
provided
provided
however
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Agreement
"" means Alliance Sant Participations S.A., a incorporated in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, having its registered office at 14, Avenue du X Septembre, L-2550, Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and registered under the registration no. B 51280.
ASP
socit anonyme
"" of any securities means ownership by a Person who, directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has or shares (i) voting power which includes the power to vote, or to direct the voting of, such security; and/or (ii) investment power which includes the power to dispose, or to direct the disposition, of such security. The terms "" and "" shall have correlative meanings. For the avoidance of doubt, (i) no Shareholder shall be deemed to Beneficially Own any securities of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries held by any other holder of such securities solely by virtue of the provisions of this Agreement (other than this definition) and (ii) the Call Option (but not the Clawback Option, to the extent it has become
Beneficial Ownership
Beneficially Own
Beneficial Owner
 
exercisable) shall be disregarded for the purpose of determining Beneficial Ownership of Ordinary Shares by any Shareholder.
"" means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or other day on which banks are authorized or required by Law to be closed in Chicago, Gibraltar, London, Luxembourg, New York or Zug.
Business Day
"" means the three-fiscal year business plan of the Group set forth in the Annual Budget for fiscal year 2012-13 and the planned budgets for fiscal years 2013-14 and 2014-15, as attached hereto as , as may be amended, restated, modified, supplemented or replaced from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
Business Plan
Exhibit A
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Buyer Shareholders Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Call Exercise Period
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Call Option
"" means (i) any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of capital stock of a corporation, any and all ownership interests or equivalents in a Person (other than a corporation); (ii) any security or right convertible into, exchangeable for or evidencing the right to subscribe or exercise for, any such stock, equity interest or security referred to in clause (i); (iii) any stock appreciation right, contingent value right or similar security or right that is derivative of any such stock, equity interest or security referred to in clause (i) or (ii); and (iv) any contract, agreement, arrangement, undertaking or understanding to grant, issue, award, convey or sell any of the foregoing.
Capital Stock
"" means, with respect to the removal of a Director, such Director's (i) willful and continued failure to perform his or her duties as a Director, (ii) willful misconduct, fraud or gross negligence that results in a material injury (financial or reputational) to the Company or the Group or that could expose the Company or the Group to civil or criminal penalties or fines or (iii) conviction of any crime constituting a felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
Cause
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Charter Documents
"" means Swiss Francs, the lawful currency of Switzerland.
CHF
"" means the earliest date on which Gibco shall have the right to exercise the Clawback Option pursuant to and in accordance with Section 3.07 of the Purchase Agreement.
Clawback Date
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Clawback Option
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Code
"" means any Person who, as of any time of determination, engages in any lines of business or operations that are also then actively engaged in by the Group, or related or ancillary businesses, including retail pharmacy, pharmaceutical wholesale
Company Designated Entity
 
and pre-wholesale and pharmacy benefit management services, in any country in which, as of the date hereof, the Group has active business operations, other than to a extent.
de minimis
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Company Material Adverse Effect
"" means the articles of association () of the Company as the same may be amended, restated, modified, supplemented or replaced from time to time in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Copies of the Company Organizational Documents in effect as of the date of this Agreement are attached hereto as .
Company Organizational Documents
Gesellschaftsstatuten
Exhibit B
"" means any Person set forth on (and any successor thereto).
Company Specified Person
Schedule IV
"" means all information (irrespective of the form of communication, and irrespective of whether obtained prior to or after the date hereof) obtained by or on behalf of a Shareholder or its Representatives either from the Company or its Representatives or from the other Shareholder or its Representatives, through the Transactions (including the Joint Ventures), the Beneficial Ownership of Shares, or through the rights granted pursuant hereto, pursuant to the Company Organizational Documents or pursuant to any contract with the Company or any other member of the Group, other than information which (i) was or becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of a breach of this Agreement by such Shareholder or such of its Representatives, (ii) was or becomes available to such Shareholder or such of its Representatives from a source other than the Company or its Representatives, or the other Shareholder or its Representatives, as the case may be; , that the source thereof is not known by such Shareholder or such of its Representatives to be bound by an obligation of confidentiality or (iii) is independently developed by such Shareholder or such of its Representatives without the use of any such information that would otherwise be Confidential Information hereunder. Subject to clauses (i)-(iii) above, Confidential Information also includes all (a) non-public information previously provided by Gibco or the Company or their respective Representatives under the provisions of any confidentiality agreement between the Company, the Shareholders or their respective Affiliates or Representatives, including the Confidentiality Agreement, including all information, documents and reports referred to thereunder, (b) subject to any disclosures permitted under Section 7.07 of the Purchase Agreement, all non-public understandings, agreements and other arrangements between and among the Company and the Shareholders and (c) all other non-public information received from, or otherwise relating to, the Company, its Subsidiaries and any Shareholder or any other investor in any of the foregoing.
Confidential Information
provided
"" means the Confidentiality Agreement, dated as of June 17, 2011, between Gibco and Walgreens.
Confidentiality Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Consider in Good Faith
"" (including the terms "", "" and ""), with respect to the relationship between or among two or more Persons, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the affairs or
control
controlling
controlled by
under common control with
 
management of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, as trustee or executor, by contract, management control or otherwise.
"" means applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar laws relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and to general principles of equity.
Creditors' Rights
"" means a member of the Company Board ().
Director
Geschftsfhrer
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Eligible Entity
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Encumbrance
"" means the United States Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
"" means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any successor statute thereto and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
First Step Closing
"" means the date of this Agreement.
First Step Closing Date
"" means the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, consistently applied, as in effect at the date of such financial statement or information to which it refers.
GAAP
"" means (i) the KKR Principal Investors and (ii) the SP Principal Investors.
Gibco Principal Investors
"" means the earlier of (i) the date, if any, on which Gibco shall have the right to exercise the Clawback Option (other than in connection with a Specified Clawback Event) pursuant to and in accordance with Section 3.07 of the Purchase Agreement and (ii) the date, if any, on which a Governance Clawback Event occurs.
Governance Clawback Date
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Governance Clawback Event
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Governmental Authority
"" means the Company and its direct and indirect Subsidiaries from time to time.
Group
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
IFRS
"" of a Person means, without duplication, as of any date of determination (i) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money, (ii) the amount of any unreimbursed drawings under letters of credit issued for the account of such Person and (iii) the principal component of all capitalized lease obligations of such Person, in the case of each of the foregoing clauses (i), (ii) and (iii), to the extent actually owing by such Person on such date and appearing on the balance sheet of such Person determined on a consolidated basis in accordance
Indebtedness
 
with IFRS; , that Indebtedness of Gibco or any of its Subsidiaries shall not include any intercompany Indebtedness among members of the Group.
provided
"" means a Public Offering of the IPO Entity.
IPO
"" means the Company, as the entity which undertakes the IPO, unless the Company Board otherwise determines that the "IPO Entity" shall be any Subsidiary that is wholly owned by the Company and the beneficiaries of the Management Equity Incentive Plan or any New MEP Plan and no other Person or a direct or indirect parent company that together with the beneficiaries of any Management Equity Incentive Plan and no other Person wholly owns the Company, in which case the IPO Entity shall be such Subsidiary or parent company; , that no IPO Entity other than the Company shall be selected to the extent that the use of such other IPO Entity would materially adversely affect any Shareholder relative to any other Shareholder, without the prior written consent of such materially affected Shareholder.
IPO Entity
provided
"" means the joint venture formed between the Company and Walgreens pursuant to the JV Agreement, and any other joint ventures formed between the Company and Walgreens from time to time.
Joint Ventures
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
JV Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in the Buyer Shareholders Agreement.
KKR Investment Fund
"" means any business or investment of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. and its Affiliates distinct from the private equity business of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. and its Affiliates; , that such business or investment shall not be deemed to be distinct from such private equity business (i) if and at such time that any Confidential Information with respect to the Company is made available to executives or other investment professionals of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. and its Affiliates who are not involved in the private equity business and who are involved in such other business or investment or (ii) Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. or any of its Affiliates instructs or overtly encourages to any such business or investment to take any action that would violate any provision of this Agreement that would be applicable to such business or investment were it to be deemed to be a KKR Principal Investor hereunder.
KKR Non-Private Equity Business
provided
"" means (i) KKR Sprint (2006) Limited, KKR Sprint (European II) Limited and KKR Sprint (KPE) Limited, collectively, (ii) any Permitted Transferee of the Persons included in clause (i) of this definition that is Transferred shares of Capital Stock of Gibco by such Person in compliance with the terms of this Agreement and (iii) any Permitted Transferee of the Persons included in clause (ii) of this definition that is Transferred shares of Capital Stock of Gibco by such Person in compliance with the terms of this Agreement.
KKR Principal Investors
"" means any applicable constitutional provision, statute, act, code, law, regulation, rule, ordinance, order, decree, ruling, proclamation, resolution, judgment or decision of a Governmental Authority.
Law
"" means, collectively, the management equity incentive plans provided by (i) the Investment Agreement, dated as of March 21, 2008, as
Management Equity Incentive Plan
 
amended on December 29, 2009, by and among AB Acquisitions Luxco 1 S..r.l., the Company, Alliance Boots (Nominees) Limited, the Managers party thereto and Barclays Wealth Trustees (Guernsey) Limited and (ii) the Investment Agreement, dated as of December 29, 2009, by and among AB Acquisitions Luxco 1 S..r.l., the Company, Alliance Boots (Nominees) Limited, SP and Barclays Wealth Trustees (Guernsey) Limited, each as in effect on the First Step Closing Date.
"" means, if SP is no longer the Executive Chairperson, the option for Walgreens to exercise an approval right over the appointment of (i) members of senior management of the Group as set forth in Section 2.6(c), (ii) an Executive Chairperson subject to certain limitations as set forth in clause (i) of Annex A and (iii) a Chief Executive Officer of the Company subject to certain limitations as set forth in clause (j) of Annex A; , that prior to exercising the Management Veto Option, Walgreens shall provide written notice to the Company and Gibco of its intention to exercise the Management Veto Option (the ""), which notice shall include which, if any, filings and/or approvals or clearances Walgreens reasonably believes are required to be obtained under any applicable antitrust, competition or other applicable Law prior to exercise of the Management Veto Option.
Management Veto Option
provided
Notice of Intention
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Manager
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Material Company Subsidiaries
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
MEP Restructuring
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Order
"" means the ordinary shares (), par value CHF 1,000 per share, of the Company and any securities issued in respect thereof, or in substitution or exchange therefor, in connection with any share split, dividend or combination, or any reclassification, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, exchange or other similar reorganization.
Ordinary Shares
Stammanteile
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Per Se Entity
"" means (i) with respect to any Shareholder Transferring Shares (a) any wholly owned Subsidiary of such Shareholder, (b) any Affiliate that alone or together with one or more other Affiliates directly or indirectly wholly owns such Shareholder and (c) any successor entity of such Shareholder, (ii) in addition to the foregoing, with respect to any SP Principal Investor Transferring shares of Capital Stock of Gibco, (A) (w) SP, (x) a spouse (which solely for the purposes of this definition shall include Ornella Barra), lineal descendant (whether natural or adopted), sibling or parent of SP or (y) upon SP's death, an heir, executor, administrator, testamentary trustee, legatee or beneficiary of SP; (B) a foundation or similar entity established by SP for the purpose of serving charitable goals, controlled by the Persons named in clause (A); (C) any trust, the beneficiaries of which include only the Persons named in clause (A) or (B), including, for the avoidance of doubt, the Serenity Trust; and (D) any corporation, limited liability company or partnership, the shareholders, members or general or limited partners of which include only the Persons named in clause (A), (B) or (C); , that other than in the case of clause (A)(y), SP retains control over the voting and disposition of the Transferred shares of Capital Stock of Gibco in the hands of such Transferee, and (iii) with
Permitted Transferee
provided
 
respect to any KKR Principal Investor Transferring shares of Capital Stock of Gibco, any other KKR Principal Investor, any KKR Investment Fund or any Person (other than any "portfolio company" (as such term is customarily used among institutional investors)) that is wholly owned by one or more KKR Principal Investors or KKR Investment Funds.
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited partnership, general partnership, limited liability company, joint stock company, joint venture, association, company, estate, trust, bank trust company, land trust, business trust, or other organization, whether or not a legal entity, custodian, trustee-executor, administrator, nominee or entity in a representative capacity and any Governmental Authority.
Person
"" means the period of time from and after the end of the Pre-Second Step Period.
Post-Call Option Period
"" means the period of time beginning on the date hereof through the earlier to occur of (i) the Clawback Date (if applicable) and (ii) the date on which the Purchase Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms without the Second Step Closing having occurred.
Pre-Second Step Period
"" means a party to a Principal Investor Side letter (other than Walgreens) and its controlled Affiliates (other than a co-investment entity or vehicle in which such party does not have any economic interest, other than a nominal or economic interest).
Principal
de minimis
"" means the fraction (expressed as a percentage), the numerator of which is the sum of the number of equity securities of the IPO Entity directly or indirectly sold by the Gibco Principal Investors in the IPO for their own account and the denominator of which is the sum of the total number of equity securities of the IPO Entity directly or indirectly held by the Gibco Principal Investors for their own account.
Principal Investor IPO Percentage
"" means the letter agreements executed and delivered by the Gibco Principal Investors and Walgreens on the date of the Purchase Agreement and attached as Exhibit C thereto.
Principal Investor Side Letters
"" means a public offering of equity securities.
Public Offering
"" means an underwritten Public Offering of ordinary shares of the IPO Entity to the extent that, immediately following the completion of such Public Offering, (i) at least 30% of the outstanding ordinary shares of the IPO Entity are publicly listed and traded or (ii) an aggregate equity valuation of the publicly listed and traded ordinary shares of the IPO Entity equals at least 3,000,000,000 (such equity valuation to be calculated based on a per share value equal to the offering price to the public of an ordinary share of the IPO Entity sold in such Public Offering).
Qualified Public Offering
"" means any transaction or series of related transactions in which one or more classes of securities issued by the Company or any of its direct or indirect Subsidiaries that are wholly owned by the Company and the beneficiaries of the Management Equity Incentive Plan and no other Person are, in whole or in part on a basis among all holders of such securities, converted into, or exchanged for, securities in another form issued by
Recapitalization Transaction
pro rata
 
the Company, any of its direct or indirect Subsidiaries that are wholly owned by the Company and the beneficiaries of the Management Equity Incentive Plan and no other Person, and/or any newly formed direct or indirect parent company that, together with the beneficiaries of the Management Equity Incentive Plan, if any, and no other Person wholly owns the Company.
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Regarded FinCo
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Regarded UKCo
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Second Step Acquisition
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Second Step Closing
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Securities
"" means the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and any successor statute thereto and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Senior Manager
"" means The Serenity Trust, a Cayman Island Trust.
Serenity Trust
"" means each and every contract or agreement (including indemnification agreements), certificate, memorandum or articles of incorporation or association, bylaws, limited liability company operating agreement, limited partnership agreement and any other organizational document of, and each and every insurance policy maintained by, any Shareholder or its Affiliates providing for, among other things, indemnification of and advancement of expenses for the Directors designated by such Shareholder for, among other things, the same matters that are subject to indemnification and advancement of expenses under this Agreement.
Shareholder Indemnification Agreements
"" means the Shareholders and/or their respective Affiliates, in their capacity as indemnitors to such Shareholder's Director designees under the applicable Shareholder Indemnification Agreements.
Shareholder Indemnitors
"" means shares of the Capital Stock of the Company, including Ordinary Shares, and any securities issued in respect thereof, or in substitution or exchange therefor, in connection with any share split, conversion, dividend or combination, or any reclassification, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, exchange or other similar reorganization.
Shares
"" means, with respect to each Shareholder, the fraction (expressed as a percentage), the numerator of which is the number of Shares Beneficially Owned by such Shareholder and the denominator of which is the sum of the total number of Shares Beneficially Owned by all Shareholders.
Sharing Percentage
"" means Stefano Pessina, a citizen of Monaco and a resident, as of the date hereof, of Monte Carlo.
SP
 
"" means either:
Specified Clawback Event
(A) the Purchase Agreement was terminated after the First Step Closing and prior to the Second Step Closing pursuant to Section 9.04(a)(ii)(B) of the Purchase Agreement and (1) at or prior to such time of termination there shall have occurred an Effect that has had or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Company Material Adverse Effect or (2) at the time of such termination either of the conditions set forth in Section 9.01(b) (Regulatory Requirements) or Section 9.01(c) (No Order) of the Purchase Agreement shall have failed to be satisfied and Buyer shall have satisfied the condition set forth in Section 9.03(b) (Compliance with Covenants) of the Purchase Agreement; or
(B) (1) the Buyer has not duly and timely exercised the Call Option prior to the expiration of the Call Exercise Period as set forth in Section 3.01 of the Purchase Agreement and (2) at or prior to such expiration there shall have occurred (i) an Effect that has had or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Company Material Adverse Effect or (ii) a Governmental Authority shall have enacted, issued, enforced or entered into any Law or Order (whether temporary, preliminary or permanent) that is in effect and has the effect of making the Second Step Acquisition illegal or otherwise restraining or prohibiting its consummation.
"" means (i) ASP, (ii) any Permitted Transferee of ASP that is Transferred shares of Capital Stock of Gibco by ASP in compliance with the terms of this Agreement and (iii) any Permitted Transferee of any of the Persons included in clause (ii) of this definition that is Transferred shares of Capital Stock of Gibco by such Person in compliance with the terms of this Agreement.
SP Principal Investors
"" means (i) any "self regulatory organization" as defined in Section 3(a)(26) of the Exchange Act, (ii) any other United States or foreign securities exchange, futures exchange, commodities exchange or contract market or (iii) any other securities exchange.
SRO
"" means the earlier to occur of (i) the Governance Clawback Date and (ii) the date on which Walgreens ceases to Beneficially Own at least 30% of the Ordinary Shares.
Step-Down Date
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Subsidiary
"" means a fraction, the numerator of which is the aggregate number of Shares proposed to be Transferred by the Selling Shareholder in the transaction subject to the applicable Inclusion Notice, and the denominator of which is the aggregate number of Shares Beneficially Owned by such Selling Shareholder and its Permitted Transferees.
Tag-Along Pro Rata Share
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Tax
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Tax Return
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Taxing Authority
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Transactions
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Transaction Documents
"" or "" means any (i) direct or indirect transfer, sale, gift, assignment, exchange, mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance or any other disposition (whether voluntary or involuntary or by operation of law) of any Shares (or any interest (pecuniary or otherwise) therein or rights thereto) Beneficially Owned by a Person, including pursuant to the creation of a derivative security or (ii) in respect of any such Shares or interest therein, to enter into any swap or any other agreement, transaction or series of transactions that hedges or transfers, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, the economic consequence of ownership of such Shares or interest, whether any such swap, agreement, transaction or series of transactions is to be settled by delivery of securities, in cash or otherwise. For the avoidance of doubt, any direct or indirect transfer, sale, gift, assignment, exchange, mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance or other disposition contemplated by clause (i) of the first sentence of this definition, or any swap or other agreement, transaction or series of transactions contemplated by clause (ii) of the first sentence of this definition, of, or with respect to, as applicable, shares of Capital Stock of Gibco by a Gibco Principal Investor shall be deemed to constitute a "Transfer" subject to the restrictions on Transfer contained or referenced herein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any direct or indirect transfer, sale, gift, assignment, exchange, mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance or any other disposition contemplated by clause (i) of the first sentence of this definition, or any swap or other agreement, transaction or series of transactions contemplated by clause (ii) of the first sentence of this definition, by (a) any shareholder of Gibco (other than a Gibco Principal Investor), or any direct or indirect shareholder or other holder of any Capital Stock of or other economic, voting or other interest in any shareholder of Gibco (other than a Gibco Principal Investor) of, or with respect to, as applicable, any non-voting Capital Stock of Gibco, (b) any stockholder of Walgreens to any other Person of, or with respect to, as applicable, any Capital Stock of Walgreens, (c) any direct or indirect limited partner of or other direct or indirect holder of any economic or other interest (other than a voting interest) in any KKR Investment Fund of, or with respect to, as applicable, any direct or indirect limited partner interest or other direct or indirect economic or other interests (other than a voting interest) in such KKR Investment Fund, or (d) any direct or indirect general partner of or other direct or indirect holder of any voting interest in any KKR Investment Fund of, or with respect to, as applicable, any direct or indirect general partner interest or other direct or indirect voting interest in such KKR Investment Fund, that, after giving effect to such action under this clause (d), such KKR Investment Fund continues to be managed and/or advised by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. or its controlled Affiliates, shall not be deemed to constitute a "Transfer" subject to the restrictions on Transfer contained or referenced herein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any direct or indirect mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance or any other similar disposition of the nature of a security interest or charge contemplated by clause (i) of the first sentence of this definition, by any direct or indirect shareholder or other holder of any Capital Stock of or other economic, voting or other interest in any shareholder of Gibco (including, for the avoidance of doubt, a Gibco Principal Investor) of, or with respect to, as applicable, any such Capital Stock of or other economic, voting or other interest in such shareholder of Gibco, shall not be deemed to constitute a "Transfer" subject to the restrictions on Transfer contained or referenced herein; , that in the case of any such mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, or other disposition by any Principal of any Capital Stock of or other economic, voting or other interest in any shareholder of Gibco, proper arrangements shall be made as a condition precedent to any such mortgage, pledge,
Transfer
Transferred
provided
provided
 
hypothecation, encumbrance, or other disposition to ensure the full release of any and all mortgaged, pledged, hypothecated, encumbranced, or disposed Capital Stock of or other economic, voting or other interest in any such shareholder of Gibco in the event of a default, foreclosure, acceleration or other similar event.
"" means the amount that the Company fails to indemnify or advance to an Indemnitee as required or contemplated by this Agreement.
Unpaid Indemnitee Amounts
"" means, at any time, shares of any class of Capital Stock or other securities of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that are then entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors or the board of directors or similar governing body of such Subsidiary, as applicable, and not solely upon the occurrence and during the continuation of certain specified events, and any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for such shares of Capital Stock or other securities.
Voting Securities
"" means any Person who, as of any time of determination, engages in any lines of business or operations that are also then actively engaged in by Walgreens and its subsidiaries, or related or ancillary businesses, including retail pharmacy, pharmaceutical wholesale and pre-wholesale and pharmacy benefit management services, in any country in which, as of the date hereof, Walgreens and its subsidiaries have active business operations, other than to a extent.
Walgreens Designated Entity
de minimis
"" means any Person set forth on Schedule V (and any successor thereof).
Walgreens Specified Person
"" has the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Wholly-Owned Subsidiary
Section 1.2. . The following terms shall have the meanings defined for such terms in the Sections set forth below:
Other Defined Terms
 
 
Section 1.3. . Unless the context requires otherwise, the gender of all words (including defined terms) used in this Agreement includes the masculine, feminine and neuter forms and the singular form of words shall include the plural and vice versa. Where a word is defined herein, each of its other grammatical forms shall have a correlative meaning. The use of the word "or" shall not be exclusive. All references to Articles and Sections refer to articles and sections of this Agreement, and all references to Annexes, Schedules and Exhibits are to Annexes, Schedules and Exhibits attached hereto, each of which is made a part hereof for all purposes. Whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation" (except to the extent the context otherwise provides). All references to days shall be calendar days unless otherwise specified. Unless the context otherwise requires, any required or appropriate comparison or conversion between currencies shall be performed using the closing exchange rate between such currencies on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported by Bloomberg L.P. on the date of such comparison or conversion. This Agreement shall be construed without regard to any presumption or rule requiring construction or interpretation against the party drafting or causing any instrument to be drafted.
Construction
 
Section 1.4. .
Effectuating the Intent of the Parties
(a) Each Shareholder shall (i) vote its Shares, if applicable, and take any and all other action in its power and authority as a shareholder of the Company and (ii) if applicable, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, instruct Directors and members of any committees designated by such Shareholder to exercise their voting rights on each such body in a manner consistent with the rights and obligations of the Parties under this Agreement so as to give effect to and preserve the intent of the parties hereto as set out herein.
(b) The parties hereto acknowledge that in certain instances a provision of this Agreement may be in conflict with applicable Law or may not be enforceable or that its enforceability may be limited by applicable Law or may provide Shareholders with rights that are less favorable to such Shareholders than such Shareholders are otherwise entitled at Law. Nevertheless, the parties hereto agree that they intend to be bound by the terms of this Agreement as drafted and therefore:
(i) to the fullest extent permitted under applicable Law, each party hereto hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives, renounces and agrees not to invoke the benefit of any right (including any consent or veto right that they may have in their capacity as Shareholders) to the extent that such right is inconsistent or in conflict with any of its obligations hereunder or is in addition to any of its rights hereunder, or in conflict with any other party's rights hereunder, , that each party hereto may invoke any right in support of or as a remedy to enforce any of the rights and obligations of the parties hereunder; and
provided
(ii) if any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable, the parties hereto agree to use their reasonable efforts to implement an alternative enforceable mechanism that would effect, as closely as reasonably possible, the intent of the parties hereto as reflected in or provided by such unenforceable provision.
Section 2.1. .
Company Board Representation
(a) . Unless Gibco and Walgreens otherwise agree in writing, the Company and the Shareholders shall take such action (including voting all Shares or executing proxies or written consents, causing the Company to call a meeting of Shareholders and, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, directing the Directors designated by them to act) as may be necessary to cause the board of directors () of the Company (the "") to consist of 16 Directors, with the Company Board consisting, immediately following the First Step Closing, of those individuals identified on . Any changes in the size or composition of the Company Board following the First Step Closing will be subject to the provisions of this Section 2.1 and Section 2.7.
Company Board Size
Geschftsfhrer
Company Board
Schedule II
(b) . From and after the date hereof, unless Gibco and Walgreens otherwise agree in writing and except as otherwise expressly provided herein:
Company Board Composition
 
(i) Each Shareholder agrees that it will vote, or execute a written consent in lieu thereof with respect to, all of the Voting Securities Beneficially Owned or held of record by it or cause all of the Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by it to be voted, or cause a written consent in lieu thereof to be executed, to elect and, during such period, to continue in office a Company Board consisting of:
 
 
 
 
(ii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, during the Post-Call Option Period (x) Walgreens shall be entitled to designate pursuant to Section 2.1(b)(i)(B): (A) for so long as Walgreens Beneficially Owns at least 30% of the Ordinary Shares, four Walgreens Designated Directors, (B) for so long as Walgreens Beneficially Owns at least 20% but less than 30% of the Ordinary Shares, three Walgreens Designated Directors, (C) for so long as Walgreens Beneficially Owns at least 15% but less than 20% of the Ordinary Shares, two Walgreens Designated Directors, (D) for so long as Walgreens Beneficially Owns at least 10% but less than 15% of the Ordinary Shares, one Walgreens Designated Director and (E) from and after such time as Walgreens Beneficially Owns less than 10% of the Ordinary Shares, no Walgreens Designated Directors, and (y) Gibco shall be entitled to designate, in addition to its right to designate Gibco Designated Directors pursuant to Section 2.1(b)(i)(A), such number of additional Gibco Designated Directors that is equal to the excess of four minus the number of Walgreens Designated Directors that Walgreens is entitled to designate pursuant to this Section 2.1(b)(ii).
(iii) During the Post-Call Option Period until an IPO, for so long as Walgreens Beneficially Owns at least 5% of the Ordinary Shares, Walgreens shall have the right to designate one observer to attend any meetings of the Company Board (such individual, an ""), and to remove any Observer so designated by it; , that unless otherwise consented to by the Company Board, no such Observer shall be entitled to attend any meeting of any committee of the Company Board or attend any executive session of the Company Board. Such Observer shall receive the same notices and documentation (including the agenda, minutes, committee reports and any other documentation) for such meeting as are given to the Directors. Such Observer shall have the same rights as a Director of the Company, including the right to participate in all deliberations of the Company Board; , that such Observer shall not have the right to participate in any vote, consent or other action of the Company Board. Such Observer shall be bound by the same duties of confidentiality as apply to the Directors and such Observer will be required to execute such customary confidentiality undertaking as may be reasonably requested by the Company.
Observer
provided
provided
(c) . Each Shareholder agrees that it shall not vote any of its Shares in favor of the removal of any Director designated by another Shareholder pursuant to this Section 2.1 unless (i) such removal shall be for Cause or (ii) the Shareholder entitled to designate such Director shall have consented to such removal in writing; , , that Gibco shall have the right to cause any Gibco Designated Director to be removed from the Company Board at any time and Walgreens shall have the right to cause any Walgreens Designated Director to be removed from the Company Board at any time, in each case with or without Cause and in the applicable Shareholder's sole discretion; , , that in the event at any time the number of Walgreens Designated Directors on the Company Board exceeds the number of Walgreens Designated Directors that Walgreens is entitled to designate pursuant to Section 2.1(b)(ii), Gibco shall, on giving 10 Business Days' written notice to Walgreens, be entitled to remove such excess number of Walgreens Designated Directors (to the extent Walgreens shall
Removal
provided
however
provided
further
 
not have already caused their removal after receipt of such notice). The Shareholders shall, and shall cause the Company to, take all action necessary to give effect to the removal rights set forth in this Section 2.1(c). To the fullest extent permitted by law, neither the Company nor the Group shall have any liability for severance or other monetary obligation to any Director so removed; , that the Shareholder that caused the removal shall indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Group and the other Shareholders in the event that any severance or other monetary obligation becomes due to such removed Director (, that Walgreens and not Gibco shall be so required to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Group and Gibco in the event that Gibco acts to remove any excess number of Walgreens Designated Directors pursuant to the second proviso of the first sentence of this Section 2.1(c)).
provided
provided
(d) . If a vacancy on the Company Board occurs at any time as a result of the death, disability, resignation, retirement or removal of any Director, the Shareholder that designated the Director whose death, disability, resignation, retirement or removal caused such vacancy shall have the sole right to designate a replacement Director for appointment or election to fill the vacancy. For the avoidance of doubt, the Company Board may continue to conduct business subject to and in accordance with this Article II notwithstanding that there are one or more vacancies on the Company Board.
Vacancies
(e) . The Company shall reimburse each Director for all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by such Director in connection with his or her attendance at meetings of the Company Board, and any committees thereof, including travel, lodging and meal expenses. In addition, each Director (other than the Executive Chairperson and any Director who is a member of the Company's executive management) shall be entitled to receive a customary director's fee of 65,000 per year or such higher amount as determined by the Company Board.
Expense Reimbursement
Section 2.2. .
Company Board Committees
(a) The Company Board shall establish a Remuneration Committee, an Audit and Risk Committee and a Social Responsibilities Committee and any other committee of the Company Board that may be formed upon the approval of the Company Board acting pursuant to and in compliance with Section 2.4(c), with such powers and rights as are determined by the Company Board, and with such composition as determined by the Company Board acting pursuant to and in compliance with Section 2.4(c); , that such powers and rights of any such committee may not include the right to approve or otherwise consent to any matter, or to take any other action, that would otherwise require the approval of a Walgreens Designated Director pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, unless a Walgreens Designated Director is a member of such committee and any such approval, consent or other action by such committee requires the affirmative vote of such Walgreens Designated Director; , , that all meetings of each committee shall be conducted in person, unless such requirement is validly waived in writing by each member of such committee.
provided
provided
further
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) for so long as Walgreens shall be entitled to designate pursuant to Section 2.1(b) at least three Walgreens Designated Directors, each committee of the Company Board (except the Remuneration Committee) shall, subject to at least one Walgreens Designated Director meeting the applicable eligibility requirements for such
 
committee mandated by applicable Law, include at least one Walgreens Designated Director and (ii) for so long as Walgreens shall be entitled to designate pursuant to Section 2.1(b) exactly two Walgreens Designated Directors, one Walgreens Designated Director (which for the avoidance of doubt need not be the same Walgreens Designated Director) shall be entitled to attend each meeting of any committee of the Company Board of which a Walgreens Designated Director is not a member (which committee, for the avoidance of doubt, shall include the Remuneration Committee) and to receive the same notices and documentation (including agenda, minutes, committee reports and any other documentation) for such meeting as are given to the directors who are members of such committee; provided, that, in the case of clause (ii) only, such Walgreens Designated Director shall have no right to vote on or otherwise consent to, any resolution or other action of the committee.
Section 2.3. . The Company Board shall hold meetings at such times and at such places as shall from time to time be determined by the Executive Chairperson, and shall be called on at least three Business Days' notice to each Director; , that (a) the Company Board shall hold a meeting at least once per calendar quarter and (b) a meeting of the Company Board shall be called by the Executive Chairperson at the request of two Directors who indicate to the Executive Chairperson that, in their reasonable judgment, the request relates to a matter of an urgent nature such that waiting until the next then-scheduled meeting, if any, would be imprudent. Notice of any meeting of the Company Board may be delivered to each Director personally in writing, by mail, by telecopier, by electronic mail or by any other means of written communication reasonably calculated to give notice. Notice of any meeting of the Company Board need not be given to any Director if a written waiver of notice, executed by such Director before or after the meeting, is filed with the records of the meeting, or to any Director who attends the meeting without protesting the lack of notice prior thereto or at its commencement.
Meetings of the Company Board
provided
Section 2.4. .
Quorum; Acts of the Company Board
(a) At all duly called meetings of the Company Board, a majority of all of the Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Directors may participate in any meeting of the Company Board by means of conference telephone, video conference or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear and speak to each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at the meeting. For the avoidance of doubt, as used in this Agreement the phrase "all of the Directors" means the entire Company Board then in office (and does not include any vacancies on the Company Board).
(b) If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Company Board, the Directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present; , that notice for any reconvened meeting shall have been given in accordance with Section 2.3; , , that the quorum for the transaction of business at any reconvened or subsequent meeting shall be a majority of all of the Directors.
provided
provided
further
(c) Each Director shall be entitled to one vote. No action shall be taken by the Company Board without the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors present at any
 
meeting of the Company Board that is quorate in accordance with Section 2.4(a); , that for so long as Walgreens shall be entitled to designate pursuant to Section 2.1(b) four Walgreens Designated Directors, such majority shall include the affirmative vote of at least one Non-Executive Director or one Walgreens Designated Director.
provided
(d) Any instrument or writing executed on behalf of the Company by any one or more of the members of the Company Board shall be valid and binding upon the Company when authorized by the Company Board in accordance with this Section 2.4 or Section 2.5.
(e) Any Walgreens Designated Director shall have the right to appoint any other Walgreens Designated Director as its proxy and attorney-in-fact (including for purposes of determining quorum) with full power of substitution and resubstitution, to vote or act by written consent, pursuant this Section 2.4 and Section 2.5.
Section 2.5. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Company Board may be taken without a meeting and without a vote, if a consent or consents in writing (including by facsimile and e-mail), setting forth the action so taken, shall be given by all of the Directors. A copy of any action taken by written consent shall be furnished to each Director.
Action by Consent
Section 2.6. .
Management of the Group
(a) . Gibco and Walgreens expressly intend that following the First Step Closing (i) in general and except as provided herein, the governance and management of the Company and the Group shall continue in the same manner as in effect immediately prior to the First Step Closing and (ii) in particular, the members of the Company's executive management immediately prior to the First Step Closing shall continue in place, unless and until removed or replaced in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
General Principle
(b) . Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement (including Section 2.7), to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, the Executive Chairperson (who the parties intend should initially be SP) shall have full and complete discretion to manage and control the business and affairs of the Group and to make all decisions affecting the business and affairs of the Group, and to take all such actions as such Executive Chairperson deems necessary, appropriate or desirable to accomplish the purposes of the Group, subject to the oversight of the Company Board and the limits of the authority delegated thereby. The schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Company Board, and the related delegated authorities, is attached as , which matters and delegated authorities may be modified, subject to Section 2.7, by action of the Company Board; , that prior to the Step-Down Date, the Company Board may not delegate authority with respect to any matter set forth on Annex A, and after the Step-Down Date, the Company Board may not delegate authority with respect to any matter set forth on Annex B.
Executive Chairperson
Exhibit C
provided
(c) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary including Section 2.4:
(i) prior to the Step-Down Date (A) for so long as SP remains as the Executive Chairperson, the Executive Chairperson shall appoint the members of senior management of the Group and (B) if SP is no longer the Executive Chairperson, the
 
members of senior management of the Group shall be appointed by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors present at any meeting of the Company Board that is quorate in accordance with Section 2.4(a); , that in the event Walgreens exercises the Management Veto Option in compliance with the terms of the definition thereof, such majority must include the affirmative vote of at least one Walgreens Designated Director; and
provided
(ii) from and after the Step-Down Date (A) for so long as SP remains as the Executive Chairperson, the Executive Chairperson shall appoint the members of senior management of the Group and (B) if SP is no longer the Executive Chairperson, the members of senior management of the Group shall be appointed by the Company Board acting pursuant to and in compliance with Section 2.4(c).
Section 2.7. .
Shareholder Approval Rights
(a) The Company shall not take or commit to take, and shall not cause or allow any of its Subsidiaries to take or commit to take, any of the actions set forth on Annex A without the prior written consent of Gibco, acting in its capacity as Shareholder, subject to Section 2.7(b) and Section 2.7(c).
(b) Prior to the Step-Down Date, the Company shall not take or commit to take, and shall not cause or allow any of its Subsidiaries to take or commit to take, any of the actions set forth on Annex A without the prior written consent of Walgreens, acting in its capacity as Shareholder, subject to Section 2.7(a).
(c) From and after the Step-Down Date, the Company shall not take or commit to take, and shall not cause or allow any of its Subsidiaries to take or commit to take (i) for so long as Walgreens Beneficially Owns at least 20% of the Ordinary Shares, any of the actions set forth on Annex B and (ii) for so long as Walgreens Beneficially Owns at least 5% of the Ordinary Shares, any of the actions set forth in clauses (a), (c), (d) or (f) of Annex B, in each case without the prior written consent of Walgreens, acting in its capacity as Shareholder. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement and, for the avoidance of doubt, from and after any Specified Clawback Event, Walgreens shall have no consent right over the action set forth in clause (e) of Annex A or over a Required Sale (subject to the provisions of clause (y) of Section 3.2(e)).
(d) Walgreens expressly acknowledges and agrees that the consent and approval rights of Walgreens in its capacity as a holder of Shares set forth in this Agreement, including Section 2.7(b), Section 2.7(c) and Section 5.2, are intended to be exhaustive and exclusive. To the fullest extent permissible under applicable Law, Walgreens hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, and agrees not to exercise, any consent, approval or veto right that it may now or hereafter have under applicable Law or the Company Organizational Documents in its capacity as a holder of Shares, except any consent, approval or veto or other right provided, or invoked in support of or as a remedy to enforce any such right provided (or any obligation of any of the other parties hereto) under this Agreement, including Section 2.7(b), Section 2.7(c) or Section 5.2. For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 2.7(d) shall not limit, and Walgreens does
 
not hereby agree to waive or not exercise, any consent, approval, veto or other rights that Walgreens may have in any capacity other than as a holder of Shares.
Section 2.8. . Subject to the provisions of Section 5.4(c), Section 5.5 and Section 5.6 hereof and Article III of the Buyer Shareholders Agreement (a) (i) any Shareholder, Director (other than the Executive Chairperson or any Director who is a member of the Company's executive management) or Affiliate of the foregoing, in each case, other than, until the later of (A) the first anniversary of the date on which SP ceases to be employed by the Company or any successor thereof as an executive and (B) the earlier of (x) the first anniversary of the last day of the Call Exercise Period and (y) the Second Step Closing, SP, any SP Principal Investor or any of their respective Affiliates, may engage in or possess any interest in other investments, business ventures or Persons of any nature or description, independently or with others, similar or dissimilar to, or that competes with, the investments or business of the Group, and may provide advice and other assistance to any such investment, business venture or Person, (ii) the Company and the Shareholders shall have no rights by virtue of this Agreement in and to such investments, business ventures or Persons or the income or profits derived therefrom and (iii) the pursuit of any such investment or venture, even if competitive with the business of the Group, shall not be deemed wrongful or improper and shall not constitute a conflict of interest or breach of fiduciary or other duty in respect of the Company, its Subsidiaries or the Shareholders, (b) no Shareholder, Director (other than the Executive Chairperson or any Director who is a member of the Company's executive management) or Affiliate of the foregoing, in each case, other than, until the later of (A) the first anniversary of the date on which SP ceases to be employed by the Company or any successor thereof as an executive and (B) the earlier of (x) the first anniversary of the last day of the Call Exercise Period and (y) the Second Step Closing, SP, any SP Principal Investor or any of their respective Affiliates, shall be obligated to present any particular investment or business opportunity to the Company even if such opportunity is of a character that, if presented to the Company, could be pursued by the Company and (c) any Shareholder, Director (other than the Executive Chairperson or any Director who is a member of the Company's executive management) or Affiliate of the foregoing, in each case, other than, until the later of (A) the first anniversary of the date on which SP ceases to be employed by the Company or any successor thereof as an executive and (B) the earlier of (x) the first anniversary of the last day of the Call Exercise Period and (y) the Second Step Closing, SP, any SP Principal Investor or any of their respective Affiliates, shall have the right to pursue for its own account (individually or as a partner or a fiduciary) or to recommend to any other Person any such investment opportunity; , that any Director who is a representative of the KKR Principal Investors and is offered an investment or business opportunity in his or her capacity as a Director shall be obligated to communicate such opportunity to the Company, in which case the KKR Principal Investors and their Affiliates shall not be permitted to pursue such opportunity unless the Company Board determines not to do so.
Outside Activities
provided
Section 2.9. .
Procuring Compliance with Article II
(a) Subject to applicable Law, each Shareholder irrevocably undertakes that it shall, and it shall procure that any person who is appointed as a Director as their designee under Section 2.1 shall, comply with the provisions contained in this Article II hereof and in this Agreement generally. In particular, and without prejudice to the foregoing, each Shareholder irrevocably undertakes that it shall:
 
(i) not seek to appoint any person as a Director who is not entitled to be so appointed in accordance with this Agreement;
(ii) not seek to remove any Director as a Director unless it is entitled to remove such person in accordance with this Agreement;
(iii) procure that none of its designees exercises any powers to take any action that would violate this Agreement; and
(iv) procure that each of its designees shall ensure that all proceedings of the Company Board are conducted in accordance with this Article II, including the quorum necessary for meetings of the Company Board, the number of votes required to approve decisions of the Company Board and the number of votes to which each Director is entitled.
(b) Except as otherwise expressly provided pursuant to Section 2.7(a), Section 2.7(b) or Section 2.7(c), the Shareholders shall, and shall cause the Company to, (i) cause all Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by the Shareholders or the Company, as applicable, to be voted in favor of any action requiring shareholder approval that is approved by the requisite approvals of the Company Board in accordance with this Agreement and (ii) refrain from causing the Voting Securities of the Company that are Beneficially Owned by the Shareholders or the Company, as applicable, to be voted in favor of any action requiring shareholder approval that is not approved by the requisite approvals of the Company Board in accordance with this Agreement.
Section 2.10. .
Company Organizational Documents; Conflicting Agreements
(a) To the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, the Shareholders and the Company shall take, or cause to be taken, all necessary action as may be required (including voting all Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by them or executing proxies or written consents, causing the Company to call a meeting of Shareholders and, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, directing the Directors designated by them to act) to cause the Company Organizational Documents to be amended, as necessary, so that they do not at any time conflict with any provision of this Agreement and they permit each Shareholder to receive the benefits to which each such Shareholder is entitled under this Agreement.
(b) To the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, in the event of any conflict between this Agreement and the Company Organizational Documents, this Agreement shall control; , that in any such case, the Shareholders and the Company shall take, or cause to be taken, all necessary action pursuant to Section 2.10(a) to remove such conflict from the Company Organizational Documents.
provided
(c) The Company shall not adopt any governance document, including any committee charters and any corporate governance or other similar board or committee policies, or enter into any agreements, contracts or other instruments inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
 
Section 3.1. .
Transfers Generally
(a) . No Shares may be Transferred unless such Transfer is made in accordance with the requirements of this Article III, as may be applicable, and any purported Transfer in violation of this Article III shall be null and void .
Transfers Generally
ab initio
(b) . The Company shall not record upon its books any attempted Transfer of Shares held of record or Beneficially Owned by any Shareholder to any other Person, except Transfers made in accordance with this Agreement, and any attempted Transfer not made in accordance with this Agreement shall be null and void .
Transfer Books
ab initio
(c) . Other than in connection with a Transfer to a Permitted Transferee, no purchaser of Shares from Walgreens shall be entitled to any rights granted to Walgreens pursuant to Section 2.1 (Company Board Representation), Section 2.2 (Company Board Committees), Section 2.4(c) (Acts of the Company Board), Section 2.7 (Shareholder Approval Rights) or Section 5.4(a) (Information, other than clauses (i) and (ii) thereof); , , that in connection with a Transfer by Walgreens of at least 30% of the Ordinary Shares to a purchaser of such Ordinary Shares, Walgreens shall be permitted to assign to such purchaser Walgreens' rights under this Agreement, except those rights set forth in Section 2.2(b); , , that (i) Walgreens shall be permitted to make such assignment of approval rights only to one such purchaser, (ii) in no event shall such rights of Walgreens and such purchaser, and their respective Permitted Transferees, exceed, in the aggregate, such rights under this Agreement in the hands of Walgreens, assuming all such Ordinary Shares then Beneficially Owned by Walgreens and such purchaser, and their respective Permitted Transferees, are then owned solely by Walgreens and (iii) with respect to an assignment of Walgreens' rights under Section 2.1(b), such purchaser shall thereafter be entitled to designate, in accordance with Section 2.1(b), (x) prior to the completion of an IPO pursuant to Section 3.7, two individuals and (y) after the completion of an IPO, one individual, to the Company Board; , , that after such assignment, Walgreens shall have no further rights under Section 2.1(b), except those rights set forth in Section 2.1(b)(iii), which shall remain in effect with respect to Walgreens in accordance with its terms. For the avoidance of doubt, such purchaser shall cease to have (x) any approval rights set forth on Annex B other than those set forth in clauses (a), (c), (d) or (f), once such purchaser ceases to Beneficially Own at least 30% of the Ordinary Shares and (y) the approval rights specified in the foregoing clause (x), once such purchaser ceases to Beneficially Own at least 5% of the Ordinary Shares. Subject to the last sentence of this Section 3.1(c), no Transfer by a Shareholder of Shares that would otherwise be permitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be permitted unless (x) the transferee shall have executed an appropriate document (a "") substantially in the form attached hereto as or otherwise in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Company and the other Shareholder(s) confirming that the transferee takes such Shares, subject to all the terms and conditions of this Agreement to the same extent as its transferor was bound by and entitled, except as otherwise set forth herein, to the benefits of such provisions and (y) such Joinder Agreement shall have been delivered to the Company and the other Shareholder(s) prior
Rights and Obligations of Transferees
provided
however
provided
further
provided
further
Joinder Agreement
Exhibit D
 
to such transferee's acquisition of such Shares. Where a Shareholder effects a Transfer of Shares to a transferee after such transferee has executed and delivered to the Company and the other Shareholder(s) a Joinder Agreement, and such Transfer is permitted pursuant to this Agreement, the transferee shall become a party to this Agreement and be bound by and entitled to its terms and conditions to the same extent as its transferor was so bound and entitled, except as otherwise set forth herein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transferee of Shares shall not be bound by any of the terms and conditions of this Agreement if the applicable Transfer is pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or pursuant to Rule 144 of the Securities Act.
Section 3.2. .
General Restrictions on Transfer of Shares
(a) During the Pre-Second Step Period, no Transfer of any Shares shall be permitted other than (i) Transfers by a Shareholder to a Permitted Transferee of such Shareholder, (ii) Transfers by an SP Principal Investor of Capital Stock of Gibco to a Permitted Transferee of such SP Principal Investor, (iii) Transfers by a KKR Principal Investor of Capital Stock of Gibco to a Permitted Transferee of such KKR Principal Investor, (iv) Transfers pursuant to the MEP Restructuring in accordance with Section 7.19 of the Purchase Agreement or (v) after the exercise of the Call Option, the Transfer of Shares at the Second Step Closing pursuant to the Purchase Agreement.
(b) Subject to Section 3.2(a), until the date that is 24 months after the first day of the Post-Call Option Period, Shares held by Walgreens may not be Transferred other than (i) Transfers by Walgreens to a Permitted Transferee of Walgreens, (ii) Transfers by Walgreens as a Tag Offeree pursuant to, and in accordance with, Section 3.5, (iii) in a Required Sale pursuant to Section 3.6, (iv) pursuant to Section 3.7(c) or (v) pursuant to the Clawback Option, if applicable.
(c) Subject to Section 3.1(c), Section 3.2(e), Section 3.3, Section 3.4 and Section 3.5, from and after the date that is 24 months after the first day of the Post-Call Option Period, Shares held by Walgreens may be freely Transferred at any time; , that prior to the completion of a Qualified Public Offering, Walgreens shall furnish a written notice to Gibco at least one month prior to engaging in any marketing or other solicitation activities with respect to any potential Transfer of Shares.
provided
(d) Subject to Section 3.1(c), Section 3.2(e)(y), Section 3.3 and Section 3.5, during the Post-Call Option Period, Shares held by Gibco may be freely Transferred at any time.
(e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement (x) Walgreens may not Transfer any Shares to a Company Specified Person without the consent of Gibco; , that the restrictions in clause (x) of this Section 3.2(e) shall not apply to any Transfers (i) to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, (ii) to any Shareholder, (iii) to a Permitted Transferee, (iv) as a Tag Offeree pursuant to Section 3.5, (v) in a Required Sale pursuant to Section 3.6, (vi) pursuant to the Clawback Option or (vii) in an IPO pursuant to Section 3.7 or in any other Public Offering and (y) Gibco may not Transfer any Shares to a Walgreens Specified Person without the consent of Walgreens; , that the restrictions in clause (y) of this Section 3.2(e) shall not apply to any Transfers (i) to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, (ii) to any Shareholder, (iii) to a Permitted Transferee, (iv) subject to applicable Law, in a Required Sale pursuant to
provided
provided
 
Section 3.6 involving the Transfer in such Required Sale of 100% of the Shares and in which Walgreens receives as consideration Capital Stock in any Walgreens Specified Person representing no more than 5% of the outstanding Capital Stock of such Walgreens Specified Person; , that, such Capital Stock (1) (I) is listed or traded on a national securities exchange (as defined in the Exchange Act) or on the London Stock Exchange, Euronext Paris (Premier March), the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Hong Kong Stock Exchange or the Shanghai Stock Exchange and (II) can reasonably be expected to be fully sold over a course of 90 days after receipt based on the trading volume of such Capital Stock without adversely affecting the trading price of such Capital Stock and (2) is immediately freely transferrable (without volume limitations, filing obligations or any requirement to deliver a prospective purchaser a disclosure document of any kind) by Walgreens, either pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or valid exemption from the registration requirements thereunder (or any similar foreign securities laws or requirements that may be applicable) or (v) in which 100% of the Shares Beneficially Owned by Walgreens are Transferred for all cash consideration.
provided
(f) In addition to any other requirements imposed by this Article III, Walgreens may not (i) prior to an IPO, distribute any Shares to its stockholders by way of any dividend or other distribution or (ii) prior to a Qualified Public Offering, effect any Public Offering of Shares, in each case other than pursuant to and in accordance with the agreements to be entered into in connection with the IPO as contemplated by Section 3.7(b).
(g) Each Permitted Transferee of any Shareholder to which Shares are transferred (or of any Gibco Principal Investor in the case of a Transfer by it of Capital Stock of Gibco) shall, and such Shareholder (or Gibco Principal Investor) shall cause such Permitted Transferee to, Transfer back to such Shareholder (or Gibco Principal Investor), or to another Permitted Transferee of such Shareholder (or Gibco Principal Investor) any Shares (or Gibco Capital Stock) it owns prior to such Permitted Transferee ceasing to be a Permitted Transferee of such Shareholder (or Gibco Principal Investor).
Section 3.3. .
Other Transfer Restrictions
(a) In addition to any other restrictions to Transfer herein contained, unless agreed by the Company Board, in no event may any Transfer of any Shares be made:
(i) subject to Section 3.7, if such Transfer would require the registration by the Company of such Transferred Share pursuant to any applicable securities Laws (unless such Transfer is pursuant to, and in accordance with, contractual registration rights granted by the Company);
(ii) if such Transfer would subject the Company, its shareholders or any of their respective Affiliates to regulation under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or Title I of ERISA, or would subject the Company, its shareholders or any of their respective Affiliates to regulation under the U.S. Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended;
(iii) if such Transfer would result in a violation of any applicable Law, and for the avoidance of doubt, Law includes applicable securities, ERISA and antitrust
 
Laws;
(iv) if such Transfer would require the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to obtain any licensing or regulatory consent other than any such license or regulatory consent that is immaterial or ministerial in nature or that is a condition to effectuating the Transfer;
(v) prior to a Qualified Public Offering if such Transfer is effectuated through an "established securities market" or a "secondary market (or the substantial equivalent thereof)" within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Code or such Transfer would otherwise result in the Company being treated as a "publicly traded partnership," as such term is defined in Sections 469(k)(2) or 7704(b) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder;
(vi) if such Transfer would reasonably be expected to have an adverse regulatory impact (other than an immaterial impact) on the Company or its Subsidiaries; or
(vii) if such Transfer is made to any Person who lacks the legal right, power or capacity to own such Shares.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in Section 3.6, Section 3.7 and Section 3.9, the Shareholders effecting any Transfer of Shares permitted hereunder shall pay all reasonable costs and expenses, including attorneys' fees and disbursements, incurred by the Company in connection with the Transfer on a basis in proportion to the number of Shares so Transferred by each such Shareholder.
pro rata
(c) In furtherance of and not in limitation of Section 1.4, each Shareholder hereby agrees to take all actions in its power and authority as a shareholder of the Company (including voting its Shares) to approve any Transfer that complies with this Agreement.
Section 3.4. .
Right of First Offer
(a) Following the date that is 24 months after the first day of the Post-Call Option Period (such time period, the ""), any proposed Transfer of Shares (other than to a Permitted Transferee or in a transaction pursuant to Section 3.5, Section 3.6 or Section 3.7) by Walgreens shall be subject to the right of first offer pursuant to, and Walgreens must first comply with the provisions of, this Section 3.4. In the event Walgreens proposes to Transfer any or all of its Shares (other than to a Permitted Transferee or in a transaction pursuant to Section 3.5, Section 3.6 or Section 3.7) during the ROFO Period (a ""), then Walgreens shall furnish to Gibco a written notice of such proposed Transfer (a "") not less than 30 Business Days prior to any such proposed Transfer.
ROFO Period
Sale
Sale Notice
(b) The Sale Notice shall include:
(i) (A) the number of Shares proposed to be sold by Walgreens (the ""), (B) all other material terms and conditions, to the extent then determined by Walgreens, in connection with such proposed Transfer, (C) the identity
Subject Shares
 
of any prospective third party purchasers, if known and (D) the proposed Transfer date, to the extent then determined by Walgreens; and
(ii) an invitation for Gibco (on behalf of itself or on behalf of any one or more of the shareholders of the Gibco Principal Investors to whom Gibco has assigned its rights under this Section 3.4) to make an offer to purchase all (but not less than all) of the Subject Shares for 100% cash consideration (unless otherwise agreed by Walgreens) and on any other terms and conditions set forth in the Sale Notice.
(c) Within 20 Business Days following the date of delivery of the Sale Notice (the ""), Gibco (on behalf of itself or on behalf of any one or more of the shareholders of the Gibco Principal Investors to whom Gibco has assigned its rights under this Section 3.4) may make an offer to purchase all (but not less than all) of the Subject Shares on the other terms and conditions set forth in the Sale Notice by delivering to Walgreens an irrevocable notice (the ""), which Purchase Notice, in order to be valid, shall set forth the cash purchase price for the Subject Shares applicable to such offer and include customary documentation (which may consist in or include one or more "highly confident" letter(s) from bank(s) or other financial institution(s)), in the context of private acquisitions, establishing with reasonable confidence Gibco's (or such shareholders of the Gibco Principal Investors') ability to finance the transaction. Any Purchase Notice so delivered shall be binding upon the delivering party and irrevocable upon delivery. Gibco (on behalf of itself or on behalf of any one or more of the shareholders of the Gibco Principal Investors to whom Gibco has assigned its rights under this Section 3.4) shall be deemed to have waived all of its (and such shareholders of such Gibco Principal Investor's) rights to purchase any Subject Shares under this Section 3.4 if a Purchase Notice that complies with the above requirements shall not have been delivered to Walgreens prior to the expiration of the Option Period.
Option Period
Purchase Notice
(d) In the event that Gibco (on behalf of itself or on behalf of any one or more of the shareholders of the Gibco Principal Investors to whom Gibco has assigned its rights under this Section 3.4) has delivered a valid Purchase Notice prior to the expiration of the Option Period, Walgreens shall be obligated to, within 10 Business Days, either accept or decline the offer set forth in the Purchase Notice. In the event that Walgreens shall have accepted, or shall not have declined, the offer set forth in such valid Purchase Notice within the 10 Business Day period referred to in the immediately preceding sentence, Walgreens and Gibco (on behalf of itself or on behalf of any one or more of the shareholders of the Gibco Principal Investors to whom Gibco has assigned its rights under this Section 3.4) shall negotiate in good faith definitive documentation for the purchase and sale of the Subject Shares on terms and conditions consistent with those contained in the Purchase Notice and on such other terms and conditions as may be agreed by Walgreens and Gibco (on behalf of itself or on behalf of such shareholders of the Gibco Principal Investors), with a view to execution and delivery of such definitive documentation as soon as reasonably practicable after the acceptance of such Purchase Notice or, in the absence of such acceptance, after such 10 Business Day period referred to in the immediately preceding sentence. The closing of the Transfer of such Subject Shares pursuant to such Purchase Notice shall take place within the time period set forth in the definitive documentation mutually agreed upon by Walgreens and the Person(s) that will acquire the Subject Shares (the ""). Each of Walgreens, the Company, Gibco and the ROFO Purchaser (if not Gibco) agrees to use its reasonable best efforts to secure any regulatory
ROFO Purchaser
 
approvals or other consents or approvals, and to comply with any Law necessary in connection with the offer, sale and purchase of such Subject Shares.
(e) In the event that (i) a valid Purchase Notice is not delivered in compliance with Section 3.4(c) or (ii) Walgreens declines the offer set forth in the applicable valid Purchase Notice in compliance with Section 3.4(d), then, during the 120 day period following the expiration of the Option Period or the date on which Walgreens declines the offer set forth in the applicable valid Purchase Notice, respectively, Walgreens may Transfer all (but not less than all) of the Subject Shares to a third party but only if the purchase price for such Transfer is the same as or higher than the purchase price specified in the Purchase Notice in the case of (ii) above and the other terms and conditions for such Transfer are not less favorable in the aggregate to Walgreens than the terms and conditions for the proposed Sale of the Subject Shares specified in the Sale Notice, in the case of clause (i) above, or the terms and conditions offered by the ROFO Purchaser pursuant to the applicable valid Purchase Notice, in the case of clause (ii) above (and any such Transfer shall not be subject to the right of first offer set forth in this Section 3.4). If at the end of the 120 day period set forth above in this Section 3.4(e), Walgreens has not entered into a definitive agreement providing for the Transfer of the Subject Shares to a third party in accordance with the foregoing sentence (or, if at the end of 180 days following the date of the Sale Notice, such Transfer has not been completed), then it shall be necessary for a separate Sale Notice to be delivered, and the terms and provisions of this Section 3.4 separately complied with, in order for Walgreens to consummate a Transfer of Shares during the ROFO Period (other than a Transfer to a Permitted Transferee or in a transaction pursuant to Section 3.5, Section 3.6 or Section 3.7).
(f) In connection with a proposed Transfer to which this Section 3.4 applies, Gibco may at any time at its option assign all or any portion of its rights under this Section 3.4 to, and substitute, one or more of the shareholders of Gibco for itself to act as the purchaser(s) or to exercise any other right of Gibco, or to satisfy any obligation of Gibco, under this Section 3.4; , , that (i) notwithstanding any assignment of rights pursuant to this Section 3.4(f) (x) any notice required to be made by Walgreens pursuant to this Section 3.4 shall only be required to be made to Gibco, and Gibco shall be responsible for forwarding such notices to its permitted assigns and (y) any such permitted assigns shall not be relieved of any obligations it may have under this Section 3.4 as a result of Gibco failing to forward or such Person failing to receive such notices and (ii) no assignment of rights pursuant to this Section 3.4(f) shall relieve Gibco of its obligations under this Agreement, including this Section 3.4(f).
provided
however
Section 3.5. .
Tag-Along Rights
(a) (i) During the Post-Call Option Period, in the case of a transaction initiated by Gibco, and (ii) following the date that is 24 months after the first day of the Post-Call Option Period, in the case of a transaction initiated by Walgreens, and in each case prior to the completion of a Qualified Public Offering, neither Gibco nor Walgreens (as applicable, the "") shall sell or otherwise effect a sale or other Transfer of all or any number of its Shares (other than to a Permitted Transferee or in a transaction pursuant to Section 3.4 or Section 3.6 or in a Public Offering pursuant to Section 3.7) unless the terms and conditions of such Transfer include an offer, on the same terms and conditions as the offer by the proposed third party transferee to the Selling Shareholder, to the Shareholder who is neither the Selling
Selling Shareholder
 
Shareholder nor a proposed third party transferee (the ""), to include at the option of the Tag Offeree, in the sale or other Transfer to the third party, a number of Shares owned by the Tag Offeree (including its Permitted Transferees) determined in accordance with this Section 3.5. For the avoidance of doubt, any proposed Transfer by Walgreens as a Selling Shareholder pursuant to this Section 3.5 shall be subject to Walgreens' prior compliance with Section 3.4.
Tag Offeree
(b) The Selling Shareholder shall send written notice of such third party offer (the "") to the Tag Offeree in the manner specified herein, which Inclusion Notice shall include the material terms and conditions of the proposed Transfer, including (i) the name and address of the proposed transferee, (ii) the proposed amount and form of consideration (and if such consideration consists in part or in whole of property other than cash, the Selling Shareholder will provide such information, to the extent reasonably available to the Selling Shareholder (including using reasonable efforts to obtain such information from the proposed transferee, if applicable), relating to such non-cash consideration as the Tag Offeree may reasonably request in order to evaluate such non-cash consideration), (iii) the proposed Transfer date, if known, (iv) the number of Shares to be sold by the Selling Shareholder and (v) the Tag-Along Pro Rata Share.
Inclusion Notice
(c) The Tag Offeree shall have the right (an ""), exercisable by delivery of a notice to the Selling Shareholder at any time within 10 Business Days after receipt of the Inclusion Notice, to sell pursuant to such third party offer, and upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Inclusion Notice (which shall be the same terms and conditions applicable to the Selling Shareholder), that number of Shares requested to be included by the Tag Offeree, which number shall not exceed a number of the Tag Offeree's (and its Permitted Transferees') Shares equal to the product of (x) the Tag Offeree's (and its Permitted Transferees') Shares multiplied by (y) the Tag-Along Pro Rata Share (it being understood that the failure to exercise such right within such time period specified above shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of all of the Tag Offeree's rights with respect to such proposed Transfer and any such exercise of the Inclusion Right shall be irrevocable). If the proposed third party transferee is unwilling to purchase all of the Shares proposed to be Transferred by the Selling Shareholder and an exercising Tag Offeree (determined in accordance with the first sentence of this Section 3.5(c)), then the Selling Shareholder and the exercising Tag Offeree shall reduce, on a basis based on their respective Sharing Percentages of the Shares held by the exercising Tag Offeree and the Selling Shareholder, the number of Shares that each otherwise would have sold so as to permit the Selling Shareholder and the exercising Tag Offeree to sell the number of Shares that the proposed third party transferee is willing to purchase. The Tag Offeree and the Selling Shareholder shall sell to the proposed third party transferee the Shares proposed to be Transferred by them in accordance with this Section 3.5 at the time and place provided for the closing in the Inclusion Notice, or at such other time and place as the exercising Tag Offeree, the Selling Shareholder and the proposed third party transferee shall agree. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Tag Offeree shall be entitled to Transfer Shares pursuant to an Inclusion Right conferred pursuant to this Section 3.5 in the event that, notwithstanding delivery of an Inclusion Notice pursuant to this Section 3.5, the Selling Shareholder fails to consummate the Transfer of Shares which gave rise to such Inclusion Right. The Selling Shareholder shall, in its sole discretion, decide whether or not to pursue, consummate, postpone or abandon any proposed Transfer and, subject to the Inclusion Notice and the other terms of this Section 3.5, the terms and conditions thereof. No Shareholder or any Affiliate of any such Shareholder shall
Inclusion Right
pro rata
 
have any liability to any other Shareholder or the Company arising from, relating to or in connection with the pursuit, consummation, postponement, abandonment or terms and conditions of any such proposed Transfer except to the extent such Shareholder, or such Transfer, shall have failed to comply with the provisions of this Section 3.5.
(d) In connection with any such Transfer, an exercising Tag Offeree must agree to make the same representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities to the same extent, , as the Selling Shareholder; , that (x) no such Tag Offeree shall be required to make representations and warranties or covenants or provide indemnities as to any other Shareholder and no such Tag Offeree shall be required to make any representations and warranties (but, subject to clause (z) below, shall be required to provide several but not joint indemnities with respect to breaches of representations and warranties made by the Company or its Subsidiaries) about the business of the Company or its Subsidiaries, (y) no Tag Offeree shall be liable for the breach of any covenant by any other Shareholder and (z) notwithstanding anything in this Section 3.5(d) to the contrary, any liability relating to representations, warranties and covenants (and related indemnities) and other indemnification obligations regarding the business of the Company or its Subsidiaries assumed in connection with the Transfer shall be shared by the exercising Tag Offeree and the Selling Shareholder in proportion to the number of Shares to be actually Transferred by each of those Shareholders and in any event shall not exceed with respect to any Shareholder the proceeds received by such Shareholder in the proposed Transfer. An exercising Tag Offeree participating in such Transfer will be responsible for its proportionate share ( in proportion to the number of Shares to be actually Transferred by such Tag Offeree) of the costs of the proposed Transfer to the extent not paid or reimbursed by the proposed third party transferee.
mutatis mutandis
provided
pro rata
pro rata
Section 3.6. .
Drag-Along Right
(a) During the Post-Call Option Period until the completion of a Qualified Public Offering, if Gibco (acting at the direction of the KKR Principal Investors) proposes to sell or otherwise effect a sale or other Transfer of all or any number of its Shares (other than to a Permitted Transferee) (a ""), then Gibco (acting at the direction of the KKR Principal Investors) may deliver a written notice to Walgreens (a "") with respect to such proposed Required Sale as soon as practicable but in any event at least 20 Business Days prior to the anticipated closing date of such Required Sale. If Gibco (acting at the direction of the KKR Principal Investors) does not exercise its rights under this Section 3.6 in respect of a Transfer, such Transfer will be subject to Section 3.5.
Required Sale
Required Sale Notice
(b) The Required Sale Notice will include the material terms and conditions of the Required Sale, including (i) the name and address of the proposed transferee, (ii) the proposed amount and form of consideration (and if such consideration consists in part or in whole of property other than cash, Gibco will provide such information, to the extent reasonably available to Gibco (including using reasonable efforts to obtain such information from the proposed transferee, if applicable), relating to such non-cash consideration as Walgreens may reasonably request in order to evaluate such non-cash consideration), (iii) the proposed Transfer date, if known, and (iv) the number of Shares to be sold by Gibco. Gibco will deliver or cause to be delivered to Walgreens copies of all transaction documents relating to the Required Sale promptly as the same become available.
 
(c) Walgreens, upon receipt of a Required Sale Notice, shall be obligated: to sell or otherwise Transfer a percentage of its Shares equal to the corresponding percentage that Gibco is proposing to Transfer under the Required Sale, and participate in the Required Sale; to vote, if required by this Agreement or otherwise, its Shares in favor of the Required Sale at any meeting of shareholders called to vote on or approve the Required Sale and/or to consent in writing to the Required Sale; subject to applicable Law, to cause any Walgreens Designated Directors serving on the Company Board to vote in favor of the Required Sale in a vote among the Company Board called to vote on or approve the Required Sale and/or to consent in writing to the Required Sale; to waive all dissenters' or appraisal or similar rights, if any, in connection with the Required Sale; to enter into agreements relating to the Required Sale (including instruments of conveyance and transfer, and any purchase agreements, merger agreements, indemnity agreements and escrow agreements, to the extent also entered into by Gibco and as Gibco may reasonably require, in order to carry out the terms of this Section 3.6); to agree (as to itself) to make to the proposed purchaser the same representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities to the same extent, , as Gibco agrees to make in connection with the Required Sale; and to use commercially reasonable efforts to take or cause to be taken all other actions as may be reasonably necessary to consummate the Required Sale (, that Walgreens shall not be required pursuant to this Section 3.6 to agree to any divestitures or restrictions or similar actions or agreements in connection with any required approval of an antitrust or other Governmental Authority in connection therewith); , that (x) unless otherwise agreed, Walgreens may not be required to make representations and warranties or provide indemnities as to Gibco or any other Shareholder and Walgreens shall not be required to make any representations and warranties (but, subject to clause (z) below, shall be required to provide several but not joint indemnities with respect to breaches of representations and warranties made by the Company or its Subsidiaries) about the business of the Company or its Subsidiaries, (y) Walgreens shall not be liable for the breach of any covenant by Gibco or any other Shareholder and (z) notwithstanding anything in this Section 3.6(c) to the contrary, any liability relating to representations and warranties and covenants (and related indemnities) and other indemnification obligations regarding the business of the Company or its Subsidiaries assumed in connection with the Required Sale shall be shared by all Shareholders based on their respective Sharing Percentages and in any event shall not exceed with respect to any Shareholder the proceeds received by such Shareholder in the Required Sale.
mutatis mutandis
provided
provided
(d) In the event that the proposed transferee in any Required Sale is a Walgreens Specified Person, then the Walgreens Designated Directors shall not attend or participate in any discussions of the Company Board with respect to such Required Sale; , that, for the avoidance of doubt, any such Transfer to a Walgreens Specified Person shall be prohibited under this Agreement unless in accordance with the requirements of clause (y) of Section 3.2(e).
provided
(e) Any expenses incurred for the benefit of the Company or all Shareholders, and any indemnities, holdbacks, escrows and similar items relating to the Required Sale, that are not paid or established by the Company (other than those that relate to representations or indemnities concerning a Shareholder's valid ownership of its Shares free and clear of all Encumbrances or a Shareholder's authority, power and legal right to enter into and consummate a purchase or merger agreement or ancillary documentation) shall be paid or established by the Shareholders in accordance with their respective Sharing Percentages.
 
(f) Gibco (acting at the direction of the KKR Principal Investors) shall, in its sole discretion, decide whether or not to pursue, consummate, postpone or abandon any Required Sale and, subject to the Required Sale Notice and the other terms of this Section 3.6, the terms and conditions thereof. No Shareholder or any Affiliate of any such Shareholder shall have any liability to any other Shareholder or the Company arising from, relating to or in connection with the pursuit, consummation, postponement, abandonment or terms and conditions of any Required Sale except to the extent such Shareholder, or such Required Sale, shall have failed to comply with the provisions of this Section 3.6.
(g) Following Gibco's delivery (acting at the direction of the KKR Principal Investors) of a Required Sale Notice, Walgreens shall be permitted to make proposals to the Company Board for alternative transactions to the applicable proposed Required Sale; , that Gibco (acting at the direction of the KKR Principal Investors) shall solely control the sale process and, without limiting the rights of any Director hereunder, Walgreens shall not have any right to participate in such process other than the making of any such proposal or as otherwise set forth in this Section 3.6.
provided
Section 3.7. .
IPO; IPO Agreements
(a) During the Post-Call Option Period, Gibco (acting at the direction of the KKR Principal Investors) may in its absolute discretion (but subject to the remainder of this Section 3.7) (i) establish the timing, structure, pricing and other terms and conditions of any IPO and (ii) approve any Recapitalization Transactions; , that no Recapitalization Transaction shall be permitted hereunder if such Recapitalization Transaction would materially adversely impact any Shareholder relative to any other Shareholder, without the prior written consent of such adversely affected Shareholder.
provided
(b) Without limiting the provisions of Section 3.7(a), prior to an IPO, Walgreens shall take all such actions as Gibco (acting at the direction of the KKR Principal Investors) may reasonably require it to take in order to effect such IPO, to the extent also taken by Gibco, including entering into (i) one or more customary agreements with respect to various matters regarding such IPO and the rights and obligations of the Shareholders in connection therewith, including timing, structure and pricing of the IPO, underwriting agreements, lock-ups, provisions designed to result in an orderly disposition of securities by the Shareholders, indemnification of Shareholders by the Company and/or the IPO Entity, the obligation of each Shareholder to provide information relating to it and its investment in the Group, customary representations and indemnities in respect of any such information and any other matters customary in the context of an initial public offering, (ii) a customary registration rights or offering rights agreement for the benefit of the Shareholders and the shareholders of Gibco (which, in any event, shall include rights, obligations and other provisions, including with respect to the payment by the Company of costs and expenses in connection with registrations and offerings, substantially similar to the provisions set forth in Article V of the Buyers Shareholders Agreement as if each of Gibco, each of the Gibco Principal Investors and Walgreens were "Demand Shareholders" thereunder and the other shareholders of Gibco were holders of registrable securities (but were not "Demand Shareholders") thereunder, , but taking into account required changes due to differing jurisdictions of organization (including as it relates to applicable Law) or the stock exchange on which the IPO Entity shall be listed; , that Gibco (acting at the direction of
mutatis mutandis
provided
 
the KKR Principal Investors) shall have the right to initiate the first such registration or offering following an IPO), (iii) subject to the proviso in Section 3.7(a), one or more agreements in respect of any Recapitalization Transactions undertaken in connection with, and in furtherance of, such IPO and (iv) such other agreements with respect to various matters regarding the rights and obligations of the Shareholders as may be agreed among such Shareholders (collectively, the ""). For the avoidance of doubt, Gibco and the Company shall use reasonable best efforts to take all actions necessary in order to effect the provisions of this Section 3.7(b), including entering into the customary registration rights or offering rights agreement described in clause (ii).
IPO Agreements
(c) If required by Gibco (acting at the direction of the KKR Principal Investors), Walgreens shall participate proportionally to the Principal Investor IPO Percentage in any IPO if such IPO includes securities to be sold by the Shareholders; , that Walgreens shall have the right to elect to participate up to proportionally to the Principal Investor IPO Percentage in any IPO which includes securities to be sold by the Shareholders if Gibco's right described in this Section 3.7(c) is not exercised.
provided
(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein (but giving effect to the proviso in clause (ii) of Section 3.7(b)), Walgreens shall not be treated less favorably in any material respect than the Gibco Principal Investors, considered in the aggregate (but with respect to pricing, individually), in respect of the terms and conditions of any IPO, any IPO Agreements or any Recapitalization Transactions.
(e) Each Shareholder hereby agrees that in preparation for the Company's first IPO, the Shareholders will negotiate in good faith, and consult with the managing underwriters, to determine the appropriate governance structure for the IPO Entity as a publicly listed and traded entity, including the appropriate size for a reduced board of directors and the appropriate representation thereon of executive and non-executive directors (including independent directors) and directors nominated by the Shareholders, giving due regard to both the expectation of the public market with respect to transparent governance and the existing governance rights of the Shareholders set forth herein. In furtherance of the foregoing, Walgreens agrees that it shall accept the right to designate the same number of directors for election to the board of the IPO Entity as may be designated, directly or indirectly (i.e., through Gibco or another contractual arrangement), by KKR and its Affiliates.
Section 3.8. .
Preemptive Rights
(a) Subject to Section 3.8(e), prior to an IPO, if the Company proposes to issue additional Capital Stock of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company proposes to issue additional Capital Stock of such Subsidiary to any Person other than any member of the Group that is the Company or, directly or indirectly, wholly owned by the Company and the Managers and no other Person, the Company shall deliver to each Shareholder a written notice of such proposed issuance at least 20 Business Days prior to the date of the proposed issuance (the period from the effectiveness pursuant to Section 6.5 of such notice until the expiration of such 20 Business Day period, the ""). Such notice shall include, to the extent applicable, (i) the identity of the issuer, (ii) the amount, kind and terms of the Capital Stock to be
Subscription Period
 
included in the issuance, (iii) the price of the Capital Stock to be included in the issuance and (iv) the proposed issuance date, if known.
(b) Subject to Section 3.8(e), each Shareholder shall have the option, exercisable at any time during the first 10 Business Days of the Subscription Period by delivering an irrevocable written notice to the Company (except as otherwise provided in this Section 3.8) and on the same terms as those of the proposed issuance of such additional Capital Stock (including the number or amount, as applicable, of Capital Stock issuable upon exercise or conversion of any security), to irrevocably subscribe for such number or amount, as applicable, of Capital Stock up to (but in no event more than) an amount equal to the product of (i) the number or amount of any such additional Capital Stock (including the number or amount, as applicable, of Capital Stock issuable upon exercise or conversion of any security) to be offered and (ii) a fraction the numerator of which is the number of Shares owned by such Shareholder and the denominator of which is the total number of Shares outstanding (calculated on a fully diluted basis) immediately prior to such issuance, in each case, on the same terms and conditions as are to be provided to the proposed purchaser(s) in the issuance in question. In the event a Shareholder fails to exercise such option in accordance with the above requirements such Shareholder shall be deemed to have waived all of its rights with respect to such issuance. For the avoidance of doubt, unless the Company determines otherwise, no Shareholder shall have the right to subscribe for any Capital Stock with respect to which any other Shareholder has not, in whole or in part, exercised its preemption right hereunder.
(c) If at the end of the 90
th
day after the date of the effectiveness of the notice contemplated by Section 3.8(a) (as such period may be extended to the extent necessary to obtain any required regulatory approvals), the Company or its Subsidiary, as applicable, has not completed the issuance, each Shareholder, in the event it has exercised its right under this Section 3.8, shall be released from its obligations under the written commitment, the notice shall be null and void, and it shall be necessary for a separate notice to be furnished, and the terms and provisions of this Section 3.8 separately complied with, in order to consummate such issuance.
(d) Each Shareholder shall take or cause to be taken all such reasonable actions as may be necessary or reasonably desirable in order expeditiously to consummate each issuance pursuant to this Section 3.8.
(e) The provisions of this Section 3.8 shall not apply to issuances by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company as follows:
(i) any issuance of securities upon the exercise or conversion of any shares, options, warrants or convertible securities issued and outstanding on the First Step Closing Date (in accordance with their terms as of the First Step Closing Date) or issued after the First Step Closing Date in a transaction that complied with the provisions of this Section 3.8 and was approved, as necessary, under this Agreement (in accordance with the terms of such securities);
(ii) any issuance of equity securities, options, warrants or convertible securities to officers, employees, directors or consultants of the Company or its Subsidiaries in connection with such Person's employment or consulting arrangements
 
with the Company or its Subsidiaries, or pursuant to any New MEP Plan, in each case, to the extent approved by the governing body of the entity making such issuance and approved, as necessary, under this Agreement;
(iii) any issuance of equity securities, options, warrants or convertible securities, in each case to the extent approved by the governing body of the entity making such issuance and approved, as necessary, under this Agreement (A) as acquisition consideration in any direct or indirect business combination or acquisition transaction approved, as necessary, under this Agreement, involving the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or (B) as acquisition consideration in connection with any joint venture or strategic partnership approved, as necessary, under this Agreement or (C) to financial institutions, commercial lenders or other debt investors, broker/finders or any similar party, or their respective designees in connection with the incurrence, approved, as necessary, under this Agreement, of Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
(iv) any issuance of equity securities pursuant to an IPO or other Public Offering, approved, as necessary, under this Agreement;
(v) any issuance of securities in connection with any share split, share dividend paid on a proportionate basis to all holders of the affected class of equity interest or recapitalization approved by the governing body of the entity making such issuance and approved, as necessary, under this Agreement; or
(vi) any issuance of securities in connection with a Recapitalization Transaction conducted in accordance with Section 3.9.
Section 3.9. .
Recapitalization Transactions
(a) Each Shareholder hereby agrees, if requested by Gibco in connection with an IPO or Required Sale, to the extent determined in good faith by Gibco to be reasonably necessary or appropriate in connection therewith, to exchange or convert all or any portion of the Shares held by such Shareholder in any Recapitalization Transaction, in each case in the manner and on the terms set forth in this Section 3.9; , that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, no Recapitalization Transaction shall be permitted hereunder if such Recapitalization Transaction would materially adversely impact any Shareholder relative to any other Shareholder, without the prior written consent of such adversely affected Shareholder.
provided
(b) The Company shall furnish a written notice (the "") to each Shareholder at least 10 Business Days prior to the consummation of any Recapitalization Transaction. The Recapitalization Notice shall set forth the principal terms and conditions of the proposed Recapitalization Transaction, including (i) the number of Shares to be exchanged or converted in the Recapitalization Transaction, (ii) the percentage of Shares owned by each of the Shareholders that are to be exchanged or converted by the Shareholders (the ""), (iii) the new form of securities to be received upon exchange or conversion of such Shares, (iv) the proposed or reasonably anticipated conversion or exchange date and (v) an explanation for the necessity and/or appropriateness of the Recapitalization in the context of such IPO or Required Sale. Following receipt of such Recapitalization Notice, each Shareholder may
Recapitalization Notice
Recapitalization Percentage
 
request additional information to assist such Shareholder in its evaluation of the impact of such Recapitalization Transaction on such Shareholder, and Gibco will endeavor in good faith to provide such information as soon as reasonably practicable. If the Recapitalization Transaction described in such Recapitalization Notice is consummated, each Shareholder shall: (x) be bound and obligated to convert or exchange the Recapitalization Percentage of such Shareholder's Shares on the same terms and conditions as the other Shareholder; and (y) receive the same securities per Share exchanged or converted except for differences, if any, that relate to the election and voting power of directors; , that in the case of this clause (y), any such differences are consistent with the Shareholders' rights under this Agreement. If at the end of the 120
provided
th
day after the date of delivery of the Recapitalization Notice the Recapitalization Transaction has not been completed, the Recapitalization Notice shall be null and void, each Shareholder shall be released from such Shareholder's obligation under the Recapitalization Notice and it shall be necessary for a separate Recapitalization Notice to be furnished, and the terms and provisions of this Section 3.9(b) separately complied with, in order to consummate such proposed Recapitalization Transaction pursuant to this Section 3.9.
(c) Each Shareholder shall, at the Company's expense, take or cause to be taken all such actions as may be necessary or reasonably desirable in order to expeditiously consummate any Recapitalization Transaction, including executing, acknowledging and delivering consents, assignments, waivers and other documents or instruments and otherwise cooperating, to the extent reasonably requested by the Company and Gibco, in connection with such Recapitalization Transaction. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each Shareholder agrees, to (i) execute and deliver such agreements as may be reasonably specified by the Company or Gibco (including a shareholders' agreement with terms that are substantially equivalent (to the extent reasonably practicable) to the terms of this Agreement, taking into account any change in the legal form of the issuer of the securities into which the Shares are being converted or exchanged), (ii) deliver, at or before the consummation of such Recapitalization Transaction, the share certificates for such Shares, duly endorsed, or with share (or equivalent) powers duly endorsed, for transfer with signature guaranteed, free and clear of any Encumbrances, with any share (or equivalent) transfer tax stamps affixed, against delivery of the applicable consideration, (iii) vote or consent in favor of such Recapitalization Transaction (to the extent a vote or consent is required) and (iv) waive any appraisal or dissenters' rights with respect to the Recapitalization Transaction.
(d) Subject to the last sentence of Section 3.9(b), the closing of a Recapitalization Transaction to which this Section 3.9 applies shall take place (i) on the proposed conversion or exchange date, if any, specified in the Recapitalization Notice (, in each case, that all material authorizations, orders, consents and approvals of any Governmental Authority legally required for the closing of such Recapitalization Transaction shall have been obtained and be in effect) or (ii) if no proposed transfer date was specified in the Recapitalization Notice, at such time as the Company or Gibco shall specify by reasonable notice to each Shareholder.
provided
Section 3.10. . In furtherance of and not in limitation of Section 6.12, each of the parties to this Agreement acknowledges that it shall be impossible to measure in money damages to the Company or the Shareholder(s), if any of them or any transferee or any legal representative of any party hereto fails to comply with any of the restrictions or obligations imposed by this Article III, that every such restriction or obligation is material, and that in the
Specific Performance
 
event of any such failure, neither the Company nor the Shareholder(s) shall have an adequate remedy at law or in damages. Therefore, each party hereto consents to the issuance of an injunction or the enforcement of other equitable remedies against it at the suit of an aggrieved party without the posting of any bond or other equity security, to compel specific performance of all of the terms of this Article III and to prevent any Transfer of Shares in contravention of any terms of this Article III, and waives, any defenses thereto, including the defenses of: (i) failure of consideration; (ii) breach of any other provision of this Agreement and (iii) availability of relief in damages.
Section 4.1. . The Company hereby represents and warrants to, and agrees with, each of the Shareholders that, as of the date hereof:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
(a) the Company has full power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder, and the execution, delivery, and performance by the Company of this Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary action;
(b) this Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes the binding obligation of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to Creditors' Rights;
(c) the execution, delivery and performance by the Company of this Agreement will not, with or without the giving of notice or the lapse of time, or both, (i) violate any provision of Law to which the Company is subject, (ii) violate any order, judgment, or decree applicable to the Company or (iii) conflict with, or result in a breach or default under, any agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or any term or condition of the Company Organizational Documents, except where such conflict, breach or default would not reasonably be expected to, individually or in the aggregate, have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to satisfy its obligations hereunder; and
(d) no consent, approval, permit, license, order or authorization of, filing with, or notice or other action to, with or by any Governmental Authority or any other Person, is necessary, on the part of the Company to perform its obligations hereunder or to authorize the execution, delivery and performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder, except where such consent, approval, permit, license, order, authorization, filing or notice would not reasonably be expected to, individually or in the aggregate, have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to satisfy its obligations hereunder or under any agreement or other instrument to which the Company is a party.
Section 4.2. . Each Shareholder (severally and not jointly, as to itself) hereby represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the Company and the other Shareholders that, as of the date hereof:
Representations and Warranties of each Shareholder
(a) such Shareholder has full power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder, and the execution, delivery and
 
performance by such Shareholder of this Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary action;
(b) this Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by such Shareholder and constitutes the binding obligation of such Shareholder enforceable against such Shareholder in accordance with its terms, subject to Creditors' Rights;
(c) such Shareholder is the Beneficial Owner and holder of record of the number of Shares set forth next to its name on Schedule I hereto;
(d) the execution, delivery, and performance by such Shareholder of this Agreement will not, with or without the giving of notice or the lapse of time, or both, (i) violate any provision of Law to which such Shareholder is subject, (ii) violate any order, judgment, or decree applicable to such Shareholder or (iii) conflict with, or result in a breach or default under, any agreement or instrument to which such Shareholder is a party or any term or condition of its certificate of incorporation or by-laws, certificate of limited partnership or partnership agreement, or certificate of formation or limited liability company agreement, as applicable, except where such conflict, breach or default would not reasonably be expected to, individually or in the aggregate, have an adverse effect on such Shareholder's ability to satisfy its obligations hereunder;
(e) no consent, approval, permit, license, order or authorization of, filing with, or notice or other action to, with or by any Governmental Authority or any other Person, is necessary, on the part of such Shareholder to perform its obligations hereunder or to authorize the execution, delivery and performance by such Shareholder of its obligations hereunder, except where such consent, approval, permit, license, order, authorization, filing or notice would not reasonably be expected to, individually or in the aggregate, have an adverse effect on such Shareholder's ability to satisfy its obligations hereunder or under any agreement or other instrument to which such Shareholder is a party;
(f) such Shareholder has acquired the Shares for investment and not with a view toward any resale or distribution thereof; and such Shareholder has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial and business matters so as to be capable of evaluating the risks of its investment in the Shares and is capable of bearing the economic risks of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; and
(g) such Shareholder is an informed and sophisticated participant in the transactions contemplated hereby and has undertaken such investigation, and has been provided with and has evaluated such documents and information, as it has deemed necessary in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the investment in the Company; such Shareholder acknowledges that it is relying on its own investigation and analysis in entering into the transactions contemplated hereby, and has consulted its own legal, tax, financial and accounting advisors to determine the merits and risks thereof; and the Shareholder has not relied on any due diligence investigation of any other Shareholder or its advisors and their respective Affiliates, or on any oral or written materials prepared or presented by any other Shareholder or its advisors, including any projections, forecasts, return on investment or other future cash flow illustrations prepared by any such Shareholder or its advisors or their respective Affiliates.
 
Section 5.1. . In connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, the Company and each Shareholder shall execute and deliver all such future instruments and take such other and further action as may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to carry out the provisions of this Agreement and the intention of the parties as expressed herein; , that any such instrument or action does not increase a Shareholder's obligations or have an adverse effect upon such Shareholder's rights under this Agreement.
Further Assurances
provided
Section 5.2. .
Certain Tax Matters
(a) Without limiting the obligations of the Company and Gibco under the Purchase Agreement and for so long as Walgreens holds at least 10% of the total outstanding Ordinary Shares and the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company is a "controlled foreign corporation" within the meaning of Section 957(a) of the Code:
(i) At the prior written request of Walgreens, the Company shall make or cause to be made an entity classification election pursuant to U.S. Treasury Regulation Section 301.7701-3(c) having an effective date specified by Walgreens (which shall be no sooner than the day prior to First Step Closing Date) and electing "disregarded entity," partnership or corporate status, as specified by Walgreens, with respect to any Wholly-Owned Subsidiary (whether existing at or formed or acquired after the First Step Closing other than AB Acquisitions Limited, Regarded FinCo or Regarded UKCo) which is an Eligible Entity; , that if any such election would reasonably be expected to have an adverse effect on the Company or any Shareholder other than Walgreens, the Company shall promptly inform Walgreens of such adverse effect in writing describing in reasonable detail the adverse effect and requesting Walgreens' consent not to make such election, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Walgreens must respond to such any request within 15 Business Days (but no later than five Business Days prior to any applicable deadline for making such election) or be deemed to have given its consent. Company and Walgreens shall cooperate in good faith to resolve any dispute over such consent. If such consent is given or is unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed, the Company shall not be required to make such election.
provided
(ii) Gibco and the Company shall consult and cooperate in good faith with Walgreens regarding minimizing the amount of "subpart F income" within the meaning of Section 952 of the Code or any other income inclusion pursuant to Section 951 of the Code to the Buyer or its Affiliates. At the prior written request of Walgreens, the Company shall Consider in Good Faith (1) making or causing to be made an entity classification election pursuant to U.S. Treasury Regulation Section 301.7701-3(c) having an effective date and electing the entity classification specified by Walgreens with respect to any Subsidiary of the Company (other than a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary, AB Acquisitions Limited, Regarded FinCo or Regarded UKCo) and (2) taking or refraining from taking any other action to minimize the amount of "subpart F income" within the meaning of Section 952 of the Code or any other income inclusion pursuant to Section 951 of the Code to the Buyer or its Affiliates.
 
(iii) From and after the First Step Closing Date, except as otherwise provided in this Section 5.2 or Section 7.14 of the Purchase Agreement, the Company and the other members of the AB Group shall, and Gibco shall cause the Company and the members of the AB Group to, refrain from, directly or indirectly, (A) filing or permitting to be filed any elections pursuant to Section 754 or entity classification elections pursuant to U.S. Treasury Regulations Section 301.7701-3(c) with respect to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries; (B) converting the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company under local law from an Eligible Entity to a Per Se Entity or from a Per Se Entity into an Eligible Entity, as applicable; (C) amending or otherwise modifying the organizational documents of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company that qualifies as an Eligible Entity (or any other agreements or arrangements relating to the personal liability of any member of the Company or any such Subsidiary) if such amendment or modification would cause the Company or the respective Subsidiary, as applicable, not to qualify as an Eligible Entity or to change the default classification of the Company or any such Subsidiary pursuant to U.S. Treasury Regulation Section 301.7701-3(b); or (D) agreeing to or authorizing, or committing to agree to or authorize (in writing or otherwise) any of the actions set forth in clauses (A)-(C) above; that the Company shall be permitted to take such action with the written consent of Walgreens, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.
provided
(iv) The Company shall consult in good faith with Walgreens and use reasonable efforts to determine if any material transaction contemplated by the Company or its Subsidiaries would or would be reasonably expected to generate "subpart F income" within the meaning of Section 952 of the Code or otherwise result in an income inclusion by Walgreens or any of its Affiliates pursuant to Section 951 of the Code. If the Company makes such a determination, the Company shall promptly notify Walgreens in writing of such transaction and shall provide Walgreens with information reasonably requested by Walgreens in writing with respect to such transaction in sufficient detail to permit Walgreens to make an independent evaluation of the U.S. federal income tax consequences of such transaction to Walgreens. The Company shall Consider in Good Faith any comments received from Walgreens with respect to such transaction and shall, at the written request of Walgreens, Consider in Good Faith refraining from effecting such transaction or otherwise modifying such transaction to minimize the amount of "subpart F income" within the meaning of Section 952 of the Code or any other income inclusion pursuant to Section 951 of the Code to the Buyer or its Affiliates.
(v) The Company shall deliver to Walgreens any periodic Tax report prepared by the Director of Tax of the Company in the Ordinary Course of Business for delivery to the Finance Committee and the Group Audit Committee promptly after such Tax report is delivered. At a time mutually agreed to by Walgreens and the Company that is promptly after the end of each quarter, the Company will cause the Director of Tax of the Company to participate in a meeting or conference call with the Divisional Vice President of Tax of Walgreens to review and discuss (i) any material Tax planning arrangements of the Group; (ii) any material transfer pricing matters with respect to the Group; (iii) any material current or proposed transaction (including any material current or proposed intercompany transactions or arrangements between any member of the
 
Group that would reasonably be expected to increase the amount of any income inclusion pursuant to Section 951 of the Code by Walgreens or any of its Affiliates); (iv) any material threatened or pending claim, audit or other proceeding with any Taxing Authority relating to any Tax or Tax Return of any member of the Group; (v) any material pending ruling request, closing agreement or other material agreement with any Taxing Authority; and (vi) any other material Tax matters with respect to the Group. Promptly following such meeting or conference call, the Company shall provide Walgreens with information reasonably requested by Walgreens in writing with respect to any matters discussed during such meeting or conference call in sufficient detail to permit Walgreens to make an independent evaluation of the U.S. federal income tax consequences of such matters to Walgreens. The Company shall Consider in Good Faith any comments received from Walgreens with respect to the matters discussed during such meeting or conference call and shall, at the written request of Walgreens, Consider in Good Faith taking or refraining from taking action with respect to such matters, in each case, to minimize the amount of "subpart F income" within the meaning of Section 952 of the Code or any other income inclusion pursuant to Section 951 of the Code to the Buyer or its Affiliates.
(b) Without limiting the obligations of the Company and Gibco under the Purchase Agreement and for so long as Walgreens holds at least 10% of the total outstanding Ordinary Shares, Gibco shall procure that neither it nor any company other than the Company or its Subsidiaries shall take any steps that would result in either: (i) any amount of interest expense of the Company or one of its Subsidiaries falling to be disallowed for the purposes of UK corporation tax as a result of the provisions of Part 7 of the UK Taxation (International and Other Provisions) Act 2010, or (ii) the group of companies of which the Company and its Subsidiaries are members for the purposes of paragraph 26 of Schedule 7AC to the UK Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 ceasing to be treated as a "qualifying group" under paragraph 18 of that Schedule.
(c) Each of Gibco and the Company shall (and shall cause their respective Affiliates, officers, employees, agents and representatives to) reasonably cooperate with Walgreens to adopt an initial taxable year, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, of the Company and each Subsidiary of the Company that is a "controlled foreign corporation" within the meaning of Section 957(a) of the Code ending on a date designated by Walgreens (which date, with respect to any Subsidiary of the Company that is a "controlled foreign corporation," Walgreens contemplates will be within 29 days of the First Step Closing Date), and shall furnish or cause to be furnished to Walgreens, upon request, as promptly as practicable, such information and assistance as reasonably necessary to effect the foregoing; provided that nothing in this paragraph (c) shall be construed as requiring the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to change its financial reporting year or any other reporting period other than for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
(d) With respect to any period during which Walgreens holds Ordinary Shares and the Company is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the allocation of items of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, among holders of Shares shall be governed by Schedule III hereto, and any amendment thereto that adversely affects Walgreens shall require the prior written consent of Walgreens, not to be
 
unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.
(e) The Company shall (i) use reasonable best efforts to conduct its operations such that no Shareholder (x) is treated as being engaged in "commercial activity" within the meaning of Section 892 of the Code; (y) recognizes income that is "effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States" within the meaning of Sections 871 and 882 of the Code; or (z) recognizes unrelated business taxable income within the meaning of Section 512 of the Code and (ii) conduct its operations such that no Shareholder recognizes income other than qualifying income under Section 7704(d) of the Code.
(f) To the extent Company is required by law to withhold or to make tax payments on behalf of or with respect to any Shareholder (""), the Company may withhold such amounts and make such tax payments as so required. All Tax Advances made on behalf of any Shareholder shall be repaid by reducing the amount of the current or next succeeding distribution or distributions which would otherwise have been made to such Shareholder or, if such distributions are not sufficient for that purpose, by so reducing the proceeds of liquidation otherwise payable to such Shareholder. If a distribution to a Shareholder is actually reduced as a result of a Tax Advance, for all other purposes of this Agreement such Shareholder shall be treated as having received the amount of the distribution that is reduced by the Tax Advance. Each Shareholder hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company and the Shareholders from and against any liability (including, without limitation, any liability for taxes, penalties, additions to tax or interest) with respect to income attributable to or distributions or other payments to such Shareholder.
Tax Advances
Section 5.3. . Each Shareholder acknowledges and agrees that pursuant to the Management Equity Incentive Plan, until the Second Step Closing, a portion of the total equity of the Group shall be held by management of the Company (such portion not to exceed 2.872% of the Group's total share capital).
Management Equity Incentive Plan
Section 5.4. .
Information
(a) (i) The Company and its Subsidiaries will prepare and provide, or cause to be prepared and provided, to each Shareholder:
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) For so long as Walgreens is a Shareholder, as soon as practicable after written request from Walgreens, subject to the last sentence of this clause (ii), the Company and its Subsidiaries will provide, or cause to be prepared and provided, any information relating to the Company and its Subsidiaries or their respective assets or businesses as Walgreens may reasonably request for purposes of preparing and filing Tax Returns, making any Tax elections, preparing for any claim, audit or other proceeding with any Taxing Authority, prosecuting or defending any claim, audit or
 
other proceeding with any Taxing Authority relating to any Tax or Tax Return, or accounting for Taxes, which information the Company shall prepare in the manner and on the basis as Walgreens may reasonably request. With respect to information requests relating to preparing and filing periodic Tax Returns, Walgreens will consult and cooperate in good faith with the Company as soon as reasonably practicable at the beginning of the relevant taxable period regarding the information that Walgreens reasonably expects to need for preparing and filing such Tax Returns for such taxable year such that the Company can implement the appropriate reporting systems to collect and report such information for the taxable year.
(iii) For so long as Walgreens Beneficially Owns at least 5% of the total outstanding Ordinary Shares, the Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prepare and provide or assist Walgreens with preparing, or use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be prepared and provided, in a reasonably timely fashion upon reasonable prior request by Walgreens, any (A) financial information (including those described in clauses (A)-(C) of Section 5.4(a)(i)) or other data relating to the Group and (B) any other relevant information or data in each case, to the extent necessary, as reasonably determined in good faith by Walgreens, for Walgreens to, (x) comply with GAAP or its obligations under applicable Law or the rules and regulations of any SRO (including reporting, filing and accounting obligations that may arise under applicable Law or the rules and regulations of any SRO in the course of Walgreens' business and financing activities) or (y) apply the equity method of accounting in accordance with GAAP and/or United States generally accepted auditing standards and applicable Law, and agrees to use its reasonable best efforts to cause its and its Subsidiaries Representatives to cooperate in good faith with Walgreens in connection with the foregoing.
(b) For the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of Section 7.09, Section 7.05 and Section 7.02 of the Purchase Agreement shall be the only provisions pursuant to which Gibco and the Company or any of their Affiliates shall have any obligation to Walgreens or any of its Affiliates in respect of the preparation and provision of information and the provision of cooperation or assistance with respect to Debt Financing (as defined in the Purchase Agreement) or the Proxy Statement (as defined in the Purchase Agreement), and Walgreens hereby acknowledges and agrees that it shall not have any right to claim that the failure of Gibco or the Company to perform any obligation under Section 5.4(a) has resulted in the failure of Gibco or the Company to perform any obligation under Section 7.09, Section 7.05 or Section 7.02 of the Purchase Agreement.
(c) In furtherance of and not in limitation of any other similar agreement such Shareholder or any of its Representatives may have with the Company or its Subsidiaries, each Shareholder agrees that all Confidential Information shall be kept confidential by such Shareholder and shall not be disclosed by such Shareholder in any manner whatsoever, except as permitted by this Section 5.4(c). Any Confidential Information may be disclosed:
(i) by a Shareholder (x) to any of its Affiliates, (y) to such Shareholder's or such Affiliate's respective directors, managers, officers, employees and authorized representatives (including attorneys, accountants, consultants, bankers and financial
 
advisors thereof) and (z) in the case of Gibco, to any direct or indirect shareholder of Gibco and, if any such direct or indirect shareholder of Gibco is a limited partnership, limited liability company or other investment vehicle, to any current or prospective direct or indirect general partner, limited partner, member, equityholder or management company of such direct or indirect shareholder of Gibco or any former direct or indirect general partner, limited partner, member, equityholder or management company which retained an economic interest in such direct or indirect shareholder of Gibco (or any employee, attorney, accountant, consultant, banker or financial advisor or representative of any of the foregoing) (each of the Persons described in clause (z), collectively, "" and each of the Persons described in clauses (x), (y) and (z), collectively, for purposes of this Section 5.4(c) and the definition of "Confidential Information", ""), in each case, solely if and to the extent any Representative needs to be provided such Confidential Information to assist such Shareholder (or its Affiliates or, in the case of Gibco, any Gibco Related Persons, as applicable) in evaluating or reviewing its existing or prospective direct or indirect investment in the Group, including in connection with the disposition thereof, and each Representative of a Shareholder shall be deemed to be bound by the provisions of this Section 5.4(c) (, that with respect to Gibco Related Persons, such Person shall instead be deemed to be bound by any confidentiality agreement or obligation to which such Person is a party or is otherwise bound, which has restrictions substantially similar to this Section 5.4(c)) and such Shareholder shall be responsible for any breach of this Section 5.4(c) (or such other agreement or obligation, as applicable) by any such Representative;
Gibco Related Persons
Representatives
provided
(ii) by a Shareholder or any of its Representatives to the extent the Company and the other Shareholder consent in writing;
(iii) by a Shareholder or any Gibco Related Person or any of their respective Representatives to a potential Transferee (so long as such Transfer is permitted hereunder); , that such Transferee agrees to be bound by the provisions of this Section 5.4(c) (or a confidentiality agreement having restrictions substantially similar to this Section 5.4(c)) and such Shareholder shall be responsible for any breach of this Section 5.4(c) (or such confidentiality agreement) by any such Transferee; and
provided
(iv) by any Shareholder or any Gibco Related Person or any of their respective Representatives to the extent that such Shareholder, Gibco Related Person or Representative has received advice from its counsel that it is legally compelled to do so or is required to do so to comply with applicable Law or legal process or Governmental Authority request or the rules of any securities exchange on which its securities are listed or the rules and regulations of any SRO; , that prior to making such disclosure, such Person uses commercially reasonable efforts to preserve the confidentiality of the Confidential Information to the extent permitted by Law, including to the extent practicable and permitted by Law, consulting with the Company and Walgreens (in the case of Gibco or any of its Representatives) or Gibco (in the case of Walgreens or any of its Representatives) regarding such disclosure and, if reasonably requested by the Company or Walgreens (in the case of Gibco or any of its Representatives), or the Company or Gibco (in the case of Walgreens or any of its
provided
 
Representatives), assisting such requesting party, at the Company's expense, in seeking a protective order to prevent the requested disclosure; , , that such Shareholder, Gibco Related Person or Representative which is required to disclose Confidential Information, as the case may be, uses reasonable best efforts to disclose only that portion of the Confidential Information as is requested by applicable Governmental Authority or as is, based on the advice of its counsel, legally required or compelled. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the confidentiality obligations of (x) Walgreens under this Section 5.4(c) shall not apply to any disclosures reasonably determined in good faith by Walgreens to be necessary in connection with its reporting and filing obligations under applicable Law or its application of the equity method of accounting in accordance with GAAP and/or United States generally accepted auditing standards or (y) any Shareholder or Gibco Related Person under this Section 5.4(c) shall not apply to the disclosure of the fact that such Shareholder or Gibco Related Person has an investment in the Group in name only (it being understood that this disclosure shall not include the investment amount, valuation information or any other information related thereto); , that for the avoidance of doubt, such information may otherwise be disclosed by such Shareholder or Gibco Related Person to its Representatives in accordance with the first sentence of this Section 5.4(c). The terms and provisions of this Section 5.4(c), together with Section 1.6(c) of the Buyer Shareholders Agreement, shall supersede the terms of the Confidentiality Agreement, which is hereby expressly terminated.
provided
further
provided
(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, without limiting any such Director's fiduciary duties under applicable Law, and subject to Section 2.8 and Section 5.5 hereof and Section 3.2 of the Buyer Shareholders Agreement, each of the Shareholders hereby consents to the Gibco Designated Directors that are representatives of the KKR Principal Investors sharing any information such Directors (in their capacities as such) receive from any member of the Group with officers, directors, members, employees, attorneys, accountants, consultants, bankers and financial advisors of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P., the KKR Principal Investors, the KKR Investment Funds and their respective Affiliates (other than any portfolio companies thereof), in each case, who shall agree to be bound by the provisions of Section 5.4(c) and this Section 5.4(d) (or to be bound by any confidentiality agreement or obligation to which such Person is a party or is otherwise bound, which has restrictions substantially similar to Section 5.4(c) and this Section 5.4(d)) (and Gibco shall also remain responsible for any breach of such provisions, or such other agreements or obligations, as applicable, by any such Person) for the internal use by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P., the KKR Principal Investors, the KKR Investment Funds and such Affiliates, and to the internal use by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P., the KKR Principal Investors, the KKR Investment Funds and such Affiliates of any information received from any member of the Group, in each case subject, however, to (x) Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P., the KKR Principal Investors, the KKR Investment Funds and their respective Affiliates maintaining adequate procedures to prevent such information from being used in connection with the purchase or sale of securities of Walgreens or the Company in violation of applicable Law and (y) compliance by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P., the KKR Principal Investors, the KKR Investment Funds and their respective Affiliates with the confidentiality provisions set forth in Section 5.4(c).
 
Section 5.5. . Until the applicable Non-Compete Fall-Away Date (a) each Shareholder shall not (and shall use its reasonable efforts to procure that its Affiliates do not) and (b) each Shareholder (other than Walgreens and its Permitted Transferees) and the Company shall not, and the Company shall cause its Subsidiaries not to (and each such Shareholder and the Company shall use reasonable efforts to procure that its Affiliates do not), initiate or conduct any discussions about future employment with, or employ, any Senior Manager, in the case of clause (a), or of the management team of Walgreens and its Subsidiaries with a title of Vice-President or higher, in the case of clause (b), without the approval of the Company Board (acting by simple majority of the disinterested Directors), in the case of clause (a), or without the approval of the board of directors of Walgreens (acting by simple majority of its disinterested directors), in the case of clause (b), and, in each case, shall not make any offers to any such executive; , that the foregoing shall not be construed to prohibit solicitation for employment or employment of any such executive (i) resulting from general advertisements for employment conducted by such party or its Affiliates, (ii) six months following cessation of such executive's employment with the Group, in the case of clause (a), or with Walgreens and its Subsidiaries, in the case of clause (b), without any encouragement by such party or its Affiliates or (iii) in the case of clause (a), by Walgreens, following exercise of the Call Option in accordance with the Purchase Agreement, so long as employment by Walgreens of any such executive remains conditioned in all respects on the completion of the Second Step Closing. For purposes of this Section 5.5, an "Affiliate" of Gibco or the Company shall not be deemed to include (i) any "portfolio company" (as such term is customarily used among institutional investors) of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. so long as such portfolio company has not received any Confidential Information and none of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. or any of its controlled Affiliates instructs or overtly encourages any such portfolio company to take any action that would violate any provision of this Agreement that would be applicable to such portfolio company were it to be deemed to be an Affiliate hereunder or (ii) any KKR Non-Private Equity Business.
Non-Solicitation; Non-Hire
provided
Section 5.6. .
Non-Competition
(a) In order to induce the Shareholders and the Company to enter into this Agreement and the Transactions, until the applicable Non-Compete Fall-Away Date (x) each of Gibco and the Company and (y) Walgreens, hereby covenants and agrees that it shall not, directly or indirectly (including through Affiliates), own, manage or operate, or participate in, or benefit from, the ownership, management or operation of, or have any Beneficial Ownership interest in, any (1) Walgreens Designated Entity, in the case of clause (x), or (2) Company Designated Entity, in the case of clause (y); , that without limiting the generality of the foregoing, this Section 5.6(a) shall not prohibit:
provided
(i) the Beneficial Ownership, as a passive investment, of less than five percent of the outstanding stock of any publicly traded corporation;
(ii) the operation of any businesses conducted by the Group, in the case of clause (x), or Walgreens and its Subsidiaries, in the case of clause (y), in each case that exist as of the date hereof, in the lines of business, and in the geographic markets, in which they are actively engaged as of the date hereof;
 
(iii) the performance of any act or the conducting of any business conducted by the Joint Ventures;
(iv) taking any action that is expressly required by this Agreement, any of the Transaction Documents (including the Buyer Shareholders Agreement); or
(v) the acquisition of a Person or business or more than 50% of the outstanding Capital Stock of such Person or business, if such Person or business conducts, directly or indirectly, businesses of any Walgreens Designated Entity, in the case of clause (x), or of any Company Designated Entity, in the case of clause (y), in each case or any lesser percentage if such acquisition results in the holding of the right to control such Person or business, and, prior to such acquisition, neither such Person nor any of its Affiliates, nor such business nor any of its Affiliates, as the case may be, was an Affiliate of the acquiror or its Affiliates, and such Person or business, as the case may be, and its Affiliates derived not more than 10% of its total consolidated revenues in its most recent fiscal year from activities of such Walgreens Designated Entity, in the case of clause (x), or of such Company Designated Entity, in the case of clause (y).
(b) In furtherance of and not in limitation of Section 6.12, each of the parties to this Agreement acknowledges that it shall be impossible to measure in money damages to the other parties hereto if any of them or any transferee or any legal representative of any party hereto fails to comply with any of the restrictions or obligations imposed by this Section 5.6, that every such restriction or obligation is material, and that in the event of any such failure, the other parties hereto shall not have an adequate remedy at law or in damages. Therefore, each party hereto consents to the issuance of an injunction or the enforcement of other equitable remedies against it at the suit of an aggrieved party without the posting of any bond or other equity security, to compel specific performance of all of the terms of this Section 5.6 and to prevent any breach of any terms of this Section 5.6, and waives, any defenses thereto, including the defenses of: (i) failure of consideration; (ii) breach of any other provision of this Agreement and (iii) availability of relief in damages.
(c) Each of the parties hereto acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in this Section 5.6 are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the others and constitute a material inducement to the other to enter into this Agreement, the other Transaction Documents and consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Transactions. It is the intent of the parties that the provisions of this Section 5.6 shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible under the Law and public policies applied in each jurisdiction in which enforcement is sought. If any particular provision or portion of this Section 5.6 shall be adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such provision or portion thereof shall be deemed amended to the minimum extent necessary to render such provision or portion valid and enforceable, such amendment to apply only with respect to the operation of such provision or portion in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.
(d) For purposes of this Agreement, the "" means the date that is the first anniversary of the earlier of (A) the last day of the Call Exercise Period and (B) the Governance Clawback Date.
Non-Compete Fall-Away Date
 
(e) For purposes of this Section 5.6, an "Affiliate" of Gibco or the Company shall not be deemed to include Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P., any KKR Principal Investor, any KKR Investment Fund or any of the Affiliates or portfolio companies of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P., any KKR Principal Investor or any KKR Investment Fund.
Section 6.1. . This Agreement shall terminate and be of no further force and effect upon the earlier of (i) the written consent of both Shareholders, (ii) the completion of the Second Step Closing, (iii) after the completion of a Qualified Public Offering, the first date on which Walgreens Beneficially Owns fewer Shares than the aggregate number of publicly listed and traded Shares and (iv) the 25
Termination
th
anniversary of the First Step Closing. At the time any Shareholder ceases to Beneficially Own any Shares, such Shareholder shall automatically cease to be a party to this Agreement. Termination of this Agreement shall not relieve any party for the breach of any obligations under this Agreement prior to such termination. Notwithstanding any such termination of this Agreement in its entirety or in respect of any Shareholder pursuant to this Section 6.1, the provisions of Section 2.1(e), Section 2.8, Section 3.3(b), the final two sentences of Section 3.5(c), clause (z) of the penultimate sentence and the final sentence of Section 3.5(d), Section 3.6(e), Section 3.6(f), the agreements entered into in connection with an IPO as contemplated by Section 3.7(b), Section 5.4(c), Section 5.5, Section 5.6 and this Article VI shall survive any termination of this Agreement in accordance with their respective terms or, if the terms of any such provision do not contain an expiration, until the later of the fifth anniversary of such termination and the liquidation and dissolution of the Company; , that in all cases, the latest that any provision of this Agreement may survive is until the 25
provided
th
anniversary of the First Step Closing.
Section 6.2. .
Indemnification
(a) The Company agrees to indemnify, pay, protect and hold harmless, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable Law, each member of the Company Board, each Shareholder and its Affiliates and their respective directors, managers, officers, employees and authorized representatives (including attorneys, accountants, consultants, bankers and financial advisors) (collectively, the "") from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, proceedings, costs, expenses and disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever (including all reasonable costs and expenses of attorneys and the defense, appeal and settlement of any and all suits, actions or proceedings instituted or threatened against any Indemnitee) and all costs of investigation in connection therewith (collectively, "") which may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Indemnitee in any way relating to or arising out of, or alleged to relate to or arise out of, any action or inaction prior to, on or after the date of this Agreement, on the part of the Indemnitee when acting on behalf of any member of the Group in any capacity, including as a member of the Company Board or committee thereof or as a member of any other board of directors or other governing body or committee thereof of any member of the Group (other than any such Losses
Indemnitees
Losses
 
by a Shareholder as a result of a breach of this Agreement by such Shareholder without prejudice to any other remedy a Shareholder may have as a result of such breach, or such Losses which are finally determined by a competent court (after all appeals have been heard or waived) to have resulted from such Indemnitee's fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct).
(b) The right to indemnification conferred in this Section 6.2 shall include the right to be paid or reimbursed by the Company the expenses incurred by a Person of the type to be indemnified under Section 6.2(a) who was, is or is threatened to be made, a named defendant or respondent in a proceeding in advance of the final disposition of the proceeding and without any determination as to the Person's ultimate entitlement to indemnification. Such expenses shall, at the request of the Person entitled to be indemnified under Section 6.2(a), be advanced by the Company on behalf of such Person in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding so long as such Person shall have provided the Company with a written undertaking, by or on behalf of such Person, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such indemnified Person is not entitled to be indemnified under this Section 6.2 or otherwise.
(c) In any action, suit or proceeding against any Indemnitee relating to or arising out of, or alleged to relate or to arise out of, any such action or non-action, the Indemnitee shall have the right jointly to employ, at the expense of the Company, counsel appointed by the Company, which counsel shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnitee, in such action, suit or proceeding. If joint counsel is so retained, an Indemnitee may nonetheless employ separate counsel, but at such Indemnitee's own expense. If an Indemnitee is determined by a court, tribunal or other relevant body to have committed fraud or to have acted with gross negligence or to have been guilty of willful misconduct, the Indemnitee shall reimburse all the expenses paid by the Company on its behalf under this paragraph.
(d) The Company acknowledges and agrees that its indemnification obligations under this Section 6.2 to indemnify or advance expenses to any Indemnitee for the matters covered hereby shall be the primary source of indemnification and advancement of such Indemnitee in connection therewith, and any obligation on the part of any Shareholder Indemnitor under any Shareholder Indemnification Agreement to indemnify or advance expenses to such Indemnitee shall be secondary to the Company's obligation and shall be reduced by any amount that the Indemnitee may collect as indemnification or advancement from the Company. In the event that the Company fails to indemnify or advance expenses to an Indemnitee as required or contemplated by this Agreement, and any Shareholder Indemnitor makes any payment to such Indemnitee in respect of indemnification or advancement of expenses under any Shareholder Indemnification Agreement on account of such Unpaid Indemnitee Amounts, such Shareholder Indemnitor shall be subrogated to the rights of such Indemnitee under this Agreement in respect of such Unpaid Indemnitee Amounts.
(e) The indemnification rights contained in this Section 6.2 will be cumulative of, and in addition to, any and all other rights, remedies and recourse to which an Indemnitee, its heirs, successors, assignees and administrators may otherwise be entitled by contract or as a matter of Law. The indemnification provided in this Section 6.2 will inure to the benefit of the heirs, successors, permitted assignees and administrators of each of the Indemnitees. To the extent that any Indemnitee is entitled to be indemnified by the Company, any other Indemnitee and/or any insurer under a policy procured by such Indemnitee (i) the obligations of the Company hereunder
 
shall be primary and the obligations of such other Indemnitee or insurer secondary and (ii) the Company shall not be entitled to contribution or indemnification from or subrogation against such other Indemnitee or insurer.
(f) The indemnity provided by this Section 6.2 shall in no event cover damages or indemnifiable expenses to the extent they are actually paid or reimbursed by or under any applicable insurance policy carried by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, that neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be obligated to carry any such policy.
provided,
(g) Except as set forth in the last sentence of Section 6.2(c), under no circumstances will any Shareholder be liable for or have any obligation to satisfy any indemnification claim under this Section 6.2.
Section 6.3. . Except as otherwise provided herein, this Agreement may not be amended except by an instrument in writing signed by each of the Company and the Shareholders; , that any Shareholder may waive (in writing) the benefit of any provision of this Agreement with respect to itself for any purpose. No waiver of any breach of any of the terms of this Agreement shall be effective unless such waiver is made expressly in writing and executed and delivered by the party against whom such waiver is claimed. A waiver or consent to or of any breach or default by any Person in the performance by that Person of its obligations with respect to this Agreement is not a consent or waiver to or of any other breach or default in the performance by that Person of the same or any other obligations of that Person with respect to this Agreement. Failure on the part of a Person to complain of any act of any Person or to declare any Person in default, irrespective of how long that failure continues, does not constitute a waiver by that Person of its rights with respect to that default until the applicable statute of limitations period has run.
Amendments and Waivers
provided
Section 6.4. . Subject to the restrictions on Transfers set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns; and by their signatures hereto, each party intends to and does hereby become bound. Subject to the limitations set forth herein, the rights and obligations of any Shareholder under this Agreement shall not be assigned except to a Transferee to which a Shareholder Transfers its Shares in compliance with this Agreement. Any assignment of rights or obligations in violation of this Section 6.4 shall be null and void. Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any Person any right, remedy or claim under, in or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained other than the parties hereto and their respective permitted successors and assigns.
Successors, Assigns and Transferees
Section 6.5. .
Notices
(a) Except as expressly set forth to the contrary in this Agreement, all notices, requests or consents provided for or required to be given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to be duly given if personally delivered, sent via facsimile or email and confirmed, or mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, or sent by nationally recognized overnight delivery service with proof of receipt maintained, at the following addresses (or any other address that any such party may designate by written notice to the other parties):
 
 
if to any Shareholder who becomes a party to this Agreement after the date hereof, to the address, facsimile number and email address set forth below its name on the signature page hereto or on the applicable Joinder Agreement.
(b) Any such notice shall (i) if delivered personally, be deemed received upon delivery; (ii) if delivered by facsimile or email, be deemed received on the first Business Day following confirmation; (iii) if delivered by nationally recognized overnight delivery service, be deemed received the first Business Day after being sent; and (iv) if delivered by mail, be deemed received upon the earlier of actual receipt thereof or five Business Days after the date of deposit in the mail.
(c) To the extent permitted by Law, whenever any notice is required to be given by Law or this Agreement, a written waiver thereof, signed by the Person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice.
Section 6.6. . Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, this Agreement (including the documents and the instruments referred to in this Agreement) and the other Transaction Documents embody the complete agreement and understanding among the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede and preempt any prior understandings, agreements or representations by or among the
Entire Agreement
 
parties, written or oral, that may have related to the subject matter hereof in any way.
Section 6.7. . It is agreed that no delay or omission to exercise any right, power or remedy accruing to any party, upon any breach, default or noncompliance by another party under this Agreement, shall impair any such right, power or remedy, nor shall it be construed to be a waiver of any such breach, default or noncompliance, or any acquiescence therein, or of or in any similar breach, default or noncompliance thereafter occurring. It is further agreed that any waiver, permit, consent or approval of any kind or character on the part of any party hereto of any breach, default or noncompliance under this Agreement or any waiver on such party's part of any provisions or conditions of this Agreement, must be in writing and shall be effective only to the extent specifically set forth in such writing. All remedies, either under this Agreement, by law, or otherwise afforded to any party, shall be cumulative and not alternative.
Delays or Omissions
Section 6.8. . This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the substantive laws of Switzerland.
Governing Law
Section 6.9. . Should any provision of this Agreement be invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, or should any provision later become invalid or unenforceable, this shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of this Agreement which shall not be affected and shall remain in full force and effect. Any such invalid or unenforceable provision shall be deemed replaced by such valid and enforceable provision as comes closest to the economic intent and purpose as of such invalid or unenforceable provision as regards subject matter, amount, time, place and extent.
Severability
Section 6.10. . To the fullest extent permitted by Law, and except as arising from the fraud or willful and material breach of such party, neither the Company nor any Shareholder shall be liable to any of the other such Persons for punitive, special, exemplary or consequential damages, including damages for loss of profits, loss of use or revenue or losses by reason of cost of capital, arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, regardless of whether based on contract, tort (including negligence), strict liability, violation of any applicable deceptive trade practices act or similar Law or any other legal or equitable principle (in each case, except to the extent any such damages are part of a claim by a third party), and the Company and each Shareholder releases each of the other such Persons from liability for any such damages.
Limitation of Liability
Section 6.11. .
Dispute Resolution; Consent to Arbitration
(a) If any dispute, controversy or claim arises out of or in connection with this Agreement or the other Transaction Documents, including any question regarding its existence, validity, termination, breach or interpretation or any dispute regarding the validity, amount or liability for any claim arising hereunder (a ""), the parties hereto shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to resolve the matter amicably. If one party gives another party (or parties) hereto notice that a Dispute has arisen and the applicable parties are unable to resolve such Dispute within 20 days of service of such notice, then the Dispute shall be referred to SP (or
Dispute
 
his successor as Executive Chairperson), Dominic Murphy (or any other individual designated by the KKR Principal Investors) and Gregory D. Wassonor his successor as chief executive officer of Walgreens), who shall attempt to resolve the Dispute. No party shall resort to arbitration against another under this Agreement until 20 days after such referral.
(
(b) Any Dispute which remains unresolved pursuant to Section 6.11(a) 20 days after service of notice of such Dispute as given and which a Shareholder wishes to have resolved shall be referred upon the application of any party hereto to, and finally resolved by, arbitration under the Rules of Arbitration (the "") in force at the date of this Agreement of the International Chamber of Commerce's International Court of Arbitration (the "") and shall be administered by the ICC. The seat, or legal place, of arbitration shall be New York, New York. The language to be used in the arbitration proceedings shall be English and all submissions shall be made in English. The substantive laws of Switzerland shall be applicable to the merits of the Dispute. The tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators nominated pursuant to Article 12 of the Rules.
Rules
ICC
(c) Each party hereto acknowledges and agrees that the arbitrators shall have the power to grant any remedy or relief available under Law, including injunctive relief, whether interim and/or final, and specific performance pursuant to Article 28 of the Rules, and any measures ordered by the arbitrators may be specifically enforced by any court of competent jurisdiction. Each party hereto retains the right to seek interim or provisional measures, including injunctive relief and including pre-arbitral attachments or injunctions, from any court of competent jurisdiction, and any such request shall not be deemed incompatible with the agreement to arbitrate or a waiver of the right to arbitrate.
(d) Each party hereto agrees that any arbitral proceedings under this Agreement and any arbitral proceedings under the Purchase Agreement and any of the other Transaction Documents, including the Buyer Shareholders Agreement, and any other agreements between the parties hereto or their Affiliates in connection with the Transactions may (to the extent the arbitral tribunal considers appropriate given the subject matter of the particular Dispute) be consolidated or be heard together concurrently before the same arbitral tribunal. The parties hereto further agree that any arbitral tribunal constituted under this Agreement shall have the power to order consolidation of proceedings or concurrent hearings.
(e) The parties hereto do not authorize the arbitral tribunal, and the arbitral tribunal shall have no power or jurisdiction to: (i) alter or modify, or substitute its own interpretation of, any of the express terms, provisions or conditions of this Agreement, but shall enforce the contract strictly as drafted according to its terms or (ii) settle or resolve any Dispute by amiable composition or or by arbitration in equity.
ex aequo et bono
(f) Each party hereto irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for the giving of notices pursuant to Section 6.5 of this Agreement. Nothing in this Section 6.11 shall affect the right of any party to serve process in any other manner permitted by Law.
Section 6.12. . Each party hereto expressly acknowledges and agrees that immediate, extensive and irreparable damage would result, no adequate remedy at
Specific Performance
 
law would exist and damages would be difficult to determine in the event that certain provisions of this Agreement are not performed in accordance with their specific terms or otherwise breached. Therefore, in addition to, and not in limitation of, any other remedy available to the parties, an aggrieved party under this Agreement would be entitled to specific performance of the terms hereof and immediate injunctive relief, without the necessity of proving the inadequacy of money damages as a remedy. Such remedies and any and all other remedies provided for in this Agreement shall, however, be cumulative in nature and not exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies whatsoever which any party hereto may otherwise have.
Section 6.13. . Any Shares acquired subsequent to the date hereof by a Shareholder shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and such securities shall be considered to be "Shares" as such term is used herein for purposes of this Agreement.
Subsequent Acquisition of Shares
Section 6.14. . The table of contents, headings, subheadings and captions contained in this Agreement are included for convenience of reference only, and in no way define, limit or describe the scope of this Agreement or the intent of any provision hereof.
Table of Contents, Headings and Captions
Section 6.15. . To the maximum extent permitted by applicable Law, no Shareholder (in its capacity as Shareholder) shall have a fiduciary or similar duty to the other Shareholder, its respective Affiliates, to any members of the Group or to any shareholder, creditor, employee or other stakeholder of any member of the Group, and each Shareholder and the Company hereby waives any claim relating to a breach of fiduciary or similar duty any Shareholder (in its capacity as Shareholder) has or may have in connection with any action or inaction by such Shareholder (in its capacity as Shareholder). No contract, agreement or understanding by or among any of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P., the KKR Principal Investors, SP, the SP Principal Investors, Gibco, the Group, or any of their respective Affiliates, including any Charter Documents of Gibco or any of its Affiliates, shall conflict with (and Gibco hereto agrees to take all action necessary to ensure that none of the foregoing shall conflict with) the rights of Walgreens and its Affiliates set forth in this Agreement or the other Transaction Documents.
Fiduciary Duties; Exculpation; No Conflicts
Section 6.16. . The rights and obligations of the parties hereunder are contractual in nature, and the parties agree that they do not form, and this Agreement shall not be deemed to constitute, a simple partnership () in accordance with art. 530 et seq. of the Swiss Code of Obligations. No party shall, solely as a consequence of entering into this Agreement, have any right, duty or obligation to:
Nature of Parties' Rights and Obligations; Exclusion of Certain Rights, Obligations and Powers
einfache Gesellschaft
(a) provide any financing or funding to the Company or to any other member of the Group;
(b) make any contribution, whether financial or otherwise, to any of the purposes pursued by any party in entering into this Agreement; or
 
(c) share with any other party any revenues, profits, or losses, or reimburse any other party for any losses;
in each case other than as provided for in this Agreement or the other Transaction Documents, or any of the other agreements referenced herein or therein. Except as otherwise provided for in this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement shall give any party any right or power to act in the name or on behalf of, or to take any action for the account of, any other party or of the parties collectively.
Section 6.17. . Except as expressly set forth in the Principal Investor Side Letters or the Limited Guaranties (as defined in the Purchase Agreement) (if any), only the parties that are signatories hereto or to a deed of adherence or accession to this Agreement or a Joinder Agreement shall have any obligation or liability under this Agreement. Notwithstanding anything that may be expressed or implied in this Agreement, except as expressly set forth in the Limited Guaranties (if any) or the Principal Investor Side Letters), no recourse under this Agreement shall be had against any current or future Representative of any Shareholder or any current or future direct or indirect Affiliate, shareholder, member, general or limited partner or other Beneficial Owner of any Shareholder or any of their respective Representatives, whether by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal or equitable proceeding, or by virtue of any statute, regulation or other Law, it being expressly agreed and acknowledged that, except as expressly set forth in the Limited Guaranties or the Principal Investor Side Letters, no personal liability whatsoever shall attach to, be imposed on or otherwise be incurred by any such Person for any obligation of any Shareholder under this Agreement or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation.
No Recourse
Section 6.18. . This Agreement and any amendment hereto may be signed in any number of separate counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one agreement (or amendment, as applicable). This Agreement may be validly executed and delivered by facsimile or other electronic transmission.
Counterparts
Section 6.19. . It is acknowledged by each of the parties hereto that Gibco and the Company have retained Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP (""), Darrois Villey Maillot Brochier AARPI (""), Niederer Kraft & Frey Ltd. and Clifford Chance LLP (collectively, the "") to act as counsel in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and otherwise. All of the parties hereto recognize the community of interest that exists and will continue to exist until the First Step Closing and the Second Step Closing, and the parties hereto agree that such community of interest should continue to be recognized after each respective date thereof. To the extent that any material subject to the attorney-client privilege, or any other applicable legal privilege, as regards Gibco or the Group, has been shared between them, whether prior to or after the date hereof, it is the desire, intention and mutual understanding of the parties hereto that the sharing of such material is not intended to, and shall not, waive or diminish in any way such material's continued protection under attorney-client or any other applicable legal privilege. Specifically, the parties hereto agree that (a) Walgreens shall not, and from and after the Second Step Closing shall cause the Company not to, seek to have any Existing Counsel disqualified from representing Gibco or (prior to the Second Step Closing only) the Company or any member of the Group in any dispute (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) based upon, arising out of or related to this Agreement or any of the
Conflicts and Privilege
STB
Darrois
Existing Counsel
 
transactions contemplated hereunder in whole or in part and (b) in connection with any dispute that may arise, prior to the Second Step Closing, between Gibco or the Company or any member of the Group, on the one hand, and Walgreens, on the other hand or, from and after the Second Step Closing, Walgreens or the Company or any member of the Group, on the one hand, and Gibco, on the other hand, Gibco and its Affiliates involved in such dispute (and not the Company or any member of the Group) will have the sole and exclusive right to decide whether or not to waive any attorney-client or other applicable privilege that may apply to any communications between Gibco, the Company or any other member of the Group and any Existing Counsel that occurred on or prior to the Second Step Closing.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned duly executed this Agreement (or caused this Agreement to be executed on its behalf by its officer or representative thereto duly authorized) as of the day and year first written above.
 
(a) amending the Company Organizational Documents, or amending the terms of the Shares if such amendment to the terms of the Shares adversely affects such Shareholder, in each case unless (i) such amendment is required by Law or (ii) such amendment necessitated by any other action as to which such Shareholder's consent is required and received (and the necessity of such amendment is brought to the attention of such Shareholder in advance of any such consent);
(b) (i) except in accordance with the Business Plan, materially changing the business purpose of the Group or (ii) undertaking any business operations in any jurisdiction that is then subject to a sanction program administered by The Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the Treasury or any successor regime;
(c) unless required by applicable Law, entering or applying for liquidation, including any bankruptcy, composition, voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up proceedings, moratorium or suspension of payments (or any similar proceedings in the relevant jurisdiction) of the Company or any Material Company Subsidiary;
(d) increasing or reducing the size of the Company Board (other than the removal, or appointment to fill any vacancy, of any Director pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, without changing the size of the entire Company Board);
(e) any IPO (for the avoidance of doubt, including any listing or admission to trading of Shares on a stock exchange or other trading facility);
(f) (i) declaring or paying any dividends or other distributions on account of Capital Stock (other than in respect of a class of Capital Stock (x) wholly owned by a member of the Group that is wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company and the Managers and by no other Person or (y) issued on a basis by any of the Material Company Subsidiaries whose results are not 100% attributable to equity shareholders of the Company) or repaying, redeeming or repurchasing any Capital Stock (other than a class of Capital Stock (x) wholly owned by a member of the Group that is wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company and the Managers and by no other Person or (y) issued on a basis by any of the Material Company Subsidiaries whose results are not 100% attributable to equity shareholders of the Company) or (ii) effecting any other recapitalization or reclassification, equity interest split or combination, or like reorganization or change in capitalization, if such recapitalization, reclassification, equity interest split, combination, reorganization or change in capitalization would adversely impact Walgreens relative to any other Shareholder, other than, in the case of each of clauses (i) and (ii), with respect to any economic interests in Galenica (subject to Article X of the Purchase Agreement);
pro rata
pro rata
(g) other than with respect to any matters or actions delegated by the Company Board in accordance with this Agreement, entering into or amending any affiliate transaction between any member of the Group, on the one hand, and any Shareholder, any Gibco Principal Investor or any of their respective Affiliates, including, for the avoidance of doubt Galenica, UK Holdings and their respective Subsidiaries, on the other hand, in each case other than (i) any
agreement or transaction entered into in the ordinary course of business that is on arm's-length terms and approved by the Company Board acting pursuant to and in compliance with Section 2.4(c), (ii) directors fees and expenses pursuant to Section 2.1(e) and (iii) payment of transaction and monitoring fees and expense reimbursement pursuant to the Second Amended and Restated Advisory Services Agreement, dated as of June 18, 2012, by and among Gibco, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. and Alliance Participations Ltd., as amended on the date of the Purchase Agreement;
(h) approval of any acquisitions or dispositions of businesses (by way of merger, share acquisition or disposition, acquisition or disposition of assets or similar business combination) or assets by any member of the Group, including joint ventures or strategic alliances or similar transactions, with an aggregate enterprise value in excess of 1,000 million in the aggregate per any twelve-month period, commencing as of the date of the Purchase Agreement;
(i) subject to Walgreens' exercise of the Management Veto Option, appointing any Executive Chairperson, in the event SP ceases to be the Executive Chairperson; , that if such proposed Executive Chairperson (i) is proposed by SP, (ii) is at such time a Senior Manager and (iii) was employed as of the date of the Purchase Agreement by the Group, then in each case no Shareholder shall have a consent right pursuant to this clause (i);
provided
(j) subject to Walgreens' exercise of the Management Veto Option, appointing a Chief Executive Officer of the Company; , that if such proposed Chief Executive Officer (i) is proposed by SP, (ii) is at such time a Senior Manager and (iii) was employed by the Group as of the date of the Purchase Agreement, then in each case no Shareholder shall have a consent right pursuant to this clause (j);
provided
(k) issuing any Capital Stock by any member of the Group to any Person, other than (i) any issuance of Capital Stock by any member of the Group (other than the Company) to the Company or another member of the Group that is, directly or indirectly, wholly owned by the Company and the Managers and no other Person (ii) any grants of awards under the Management Equity Incentive Plan or any New MEP Plan (to the extent permitted by clause (m) below if required, but which in the case of the Management Equity Incentive Plan shall be directly and economically borne by Gibco and not any other Shareholder or any member of the Group), (iii) as consideration in any acquisition transaction approved under clause (h) above, or any acquisition transaction of the type contemplated in clause (h) above (including a business combination, joint venture or strategic alliance or similar transaction) that is not required to be approved under clause (h) above as a result of not exceeding the limits contemplated thereby or (iv) any issuance of Capital Stock to financial institutions, commercial lenders or other debt investors, broker/finders or any similar party, or their respective designees in connection with the incurrence of Indebtedness (ignoring for this purpose the proviso therein); that no Shares may be issued pursuant to clauses (i)-(iv) above unless irrevocably subject to the Call Option;
provided
(l) materially amending (i) the Business Plan or (ii) the then-approved annual budget of the Group (the ""), in each case in an amount in excess of 20% of the amounts reflected in the Business Plan or Annual Budget, in the aggregate with all other such amendments; , that no Shareholder shall have a consent right over any such amendments which are necessary or proper (in the good faith determination of the Board) by any material adverse change in (x) the financial, securities or commodities markets, (y) the industry or
Annual Budget
provided
industries in which the Group operates, taken as a whole, or (z) any changes in Law affecting the Group; , , that any Business Plan or Annual Budget adopted by the Company Board with the approval of at least one Walgreens Designated Director, or any action taken by any member of the Group with Walgreens' consent pursuant to this Annex A, shall be deemed to amend the Business Plan and/or Annual Budget (as the case may be) without any further action by, or any consent required of, any Party; , , that the amounts involved in any such deemed amendments shall not be counted towards the 20% limitation set forth above in the case of any subsequent amendments subject to this clause (l); it being understood and agreed by the parties hereto that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, in the case of any non-compliance, non-adherence or any other deviation by the Group from the Business Plan or Annual Budget of more than 20% of the amounts reflected in the Business Plan or Annual Budget, in the aggregate, a meeting of the Company Board shall be promptly convened in accordance with the provisions of Article II for the purpose of discussing any such non-compliance, non-adherence or deviation and whether or not the Business Plan or Annual Budget requires amendment or modification;
provided
further
provided
further
(m) other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice of the Group or as may not, in the sole discretion of SP for so long as he remains Executive Chairman, be considered commercially unreasonable, after good faith consultation and discussion with Walgreens (unless a Walgreens Designated Director is a member of the Remunerations Committee at the time the relevant determination or deliberation is made), increasing the planned or effective annual total compensation or benefits (including cash or non-cash bonuses and severance benefits), including through any New LTIP, or accelerating the vesting, funding or payment of any compensation or benefits, for Senior Managers;
(n) amending other than in any respect the schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Company Board, and the related delegated authorities, referred to in Section 2.6(b); and
de minimis
(o) removing or replacing the Company's statutory auditors; , that no Shareholder shall have a consent right over (and, accordingly, such right shall not apply to) replacing the Company's statutory auditors with an internationally recognized independent public accounting firm.
provided
(a) amending the Company Organizational Documents in any material respect, or amending the terms of the Shares if such amendment materially adversely affects Walgreens, or in either case if such amendment is inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, in each case unless (i) such amendment is required by applicable Law or (ii) such amendment is necessitated by any other action as to which Walgreens' consent is required and received (and the necessity of such amendment is brought to the attention of such Shareholder in advance of any such consent);
(b) (i) except in accordance with the Business Plan, materially changing the business purpose of the Group or (ii) undertaking any business operations in any jurisdiction that is then subject to a sanction program administered by The Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the Treasury or any successor regime;
(c) unless required by applicable Law, entering or applying for liquidation, including any bankruptcy, composition, voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up proceedings, moratorium or suspension of payments (or any similar proceedings in the relevant jurisdiction) of the Company or any Material Company Subsidiary;
(d) (i) declaring or paying any dividends or other distributions on account of Capital Stock (other than in respect of a class of Capital Stock (x) wholly owned by a member of the Group that is wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company and the Managers and by no other Person or (y) issued on a basis by any of the Material Company Subsidiaries whose results are not 100% attributable to equity shareholders of the Company) or repaying, redeeming or repurchasing any Capital Stock (other than a class of Capital Stock (x) wholly owned by a member of the Group that is wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company and the Managers and by no other Person or (y) issued on a basis by any of the Material Company Subsidiaries whose results are not 100% attributable to equity shareholders of the Company) or (ii) effecting any other recapitalization or reclassification, equity interest split or combination, or like reorganization or change in capitalization, if such recapitalization, reclassification, equity interest split, combination, reorganization or change in capitalization would materially adversely impact such Shareholder relative to any other Shareholder, in each case other than in the case of each of clauses (i) and (ii) (A) in a manner among all Shareholders, (B) Recapitalization Transactions pursuant to and in accordance with Section 3.9 or (C) with respect to any economic interests in Galenica (subject to Article X of the Purchase Agreement);
pro rata
pro rata
pro rata
(e) increasing or reducing the size of the Company Board (other than the removal, or appointment to fill any vacancy, of any Director pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, without changing the size of the entire Company Board);
(f) other than with respect to any matters or actions delegated by the Company Board in accordance with this Agreement, entering into or amending any affiliate transaction between any member of the Group, on the one hand, and any Shareholder, any Gibco Principal Investor or any of their respective Affiliates, including, for the avoidance of doubt Galenica, UK Holdings and their respective Subsidiaries, on the other hand, in each case other than (i) any
agreement or transaction entered into in the ordinary course of business that is on arm's-length terms and approved by the Company Board acting pursuant to and in compliance with Section 2.4(c), (ii) directors fees and expenses pursuant to Section 2.1(e) and (iii) payment of transaction and monitoring fees and expense reimbursement pursuant to the Second Amended and Restated Advisory Services Agreement, dated as of June 18, 2012, by and among Gibco, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. and Alliance Participations Ltd., as amended on the date of the Purchase Agreement;
(g) approval of any acquisitions or dispositions of businesses (by way of merger, share acquisition or disposition, acquisition or disposition of assets or similar business combination) or assets by any member of the Group, including joint ventures or strategic alliances or similar transactions, with an aggregate enterprise value in excess of 1,000 million in the aggregate per any twelve-month period, commencing as of the date of the Purchase Agreement;
(h) amending other than in any respect the schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Company Board, and the related delegated authorities, referred to in Section 2.6(b); and
de minimis
(i) removing or replacing the Company's statutory auditors; , that no Shareholder shall have a consent right over (and, accordingly, such right shall not apply to) replacing the Company's statutory auditors with an internationally recognized independent public accounting firm.
provided

Exhibit 99.1
 
DEERFIELD, IL  August 2, 2012  Walgreen Co. (NYSE: WAG) (NASDAQ: WAG), the largest drug store chain in the U.S., and Alliance Boots, a leading international pharmacy-led health and beauty group, announced the completion today of Walgreens initial investment in the strategic partnership to create the first global pharmacy-led, health and wellbeing enterprise. This follows receipt of all required regulatory approvals.
The Walgreens investment consists of approximately $4.0 billion in cash and 83.4 million shares of Walgreens common stock in exchange for a 45% equity stake in Alliance Boots*. Walgreens has the option to proceed to a full combination in approximately three years' time by acquiring the remaining 55% of Alliance Boots*. As a result of the transaction, Alliance Sant Participations S.A. (of which Stefano Pessina, Executive Chairman, Alliance Boots, is a director and whose ultimate ownership is a family trust) becomes the largest shareholder of Walgreens, with a stake it intends to hold for the long term.
Stefano Pessina and Dominic Murphy, Member of the general partner of KKR & Co. L.P., have today joined the Walgreens Board of Directors. At the same time, Gregory Wasson, President and Chief Executive Officer of Walgreens, Wade Miquelon, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Thomas Sabatino, Executive Vice-President and General Counsel, and Robert Zimmerman, Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer, have become members of the Alliance Boots Board of Directors.
 
 
 
*Excludes the Alliance Boots minority interest in Galenica, the Swiss healthcare group. The Alliance Boots investment in Galenica will continue to be owned by Alliance Boots and its existing shareholders for the benefit of those shareholders.
About Walgreens
As the nation's largest drugstore chain with fiscal 2011 sales of $72 billion, Walgreens (www.walgreens.com) vision is to become America's first choice for health and daily living. Each day, Walgreens provides nearly 6 million customers the most convenient, multichannel access to consumer goods and services and trusted, cost-effective pharmacy, health and wellness services and advice in communities across America. Walgreens scope of pharmacy services includes retail, specialty, infusion, medical facility and mail service, along with respiratory services. These services improve health outcomes and lower costs for payers including employers, managed care organizations, health systems, pharmacy benefit managers and the public sector. The company operates 7,907 drugstores in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Take Care Health Systems is a Walgreens subsidiary that is the largest and most comprehensive manager of worksite health and wellness centers and in-store convenient care clinics, with more than 700 locations throughout the country.
About Alliance Boots
Alliance Boots is a leading international, pharmacy-led health and beauty group delivering a range of products and services to customers. For the financial year ended 31 March 2012, Alliance Boots reported revenue of 23.0 billion ($35.7 billion**), (25.4 billion ($39.4 billion**) including share of associates and joint ventures), and EBITDA of 1,443 million ($2,237 million**), (1,568 million ($2,430 million**) including share of associates and joint ventures). Working in close partnership with manufacturers and pharmacists, Alliance Boots is committed to improving health in the local communities it serves and helping its customers and patients to look and feel their best. Alliance Boots focus is on growing its two core businesses: pharmacy-led health and beauty retailing and pharmaceutical wholesaling and distribution.
Alliance Boots has a presence in more than 25*** countries and employs over 116,000*** people. Alliance Boots has pharmacy-led health and beauty retail businesses in 11*** countries and operates more than 3,330*** health and beauty retail stores, of which just over 3,200*** have a pharmacy. In addition, Alliance Boots has around 625*** optical practices, of which around 185*** operate on a franchise basis. Its pharmaceutical wholesale businesses supply medicines, other healthcare products and related services to more than 170,000*** pharmacies, doctors, health centers and hospitals from over 370*** distribution centers in 21*** countries.
 
Contacts
Rick Hans / Lisa Meers +1 847 315 2385 / +1 847 315 2361
Investor Relations (Walgreens):
Gerald Gradwell +44 20 7 138 1132
Investor Relations (Alliance Boots):
Media Relations (Walgreens):
Michael Polzin, Walgreens +1 847 315 2920
Steve Lipin / Gemma Hart, Brunswick Group +1 212 333 3810
Media Relations (Alliance Boots):
Yves Romestan / Laura Vergani / Katie Johnson, Alliance Boots +44 20 7980 8585
Justine McIlroy / Tim Danaher, Brunswick Group +44 20 7404 5959
Walgreens Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this release that are not historical are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expect," "likely," "outlook," "forecast," "would," "could," "should," "can," "will," "project," "intend," "plan," "goal," "continue," "sustain," "synergy," "on track," "believe," "seek," "estimate," "anticipate," "may," "possible," "assume," variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject
to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to vary materially from those indicated, including: risks that the transactions contemplated by the Purchase and Option Agreement and Walgreens and Alliance Books shareholders agreements relating to the strategic partnership disrupt plans and operations of either Walgreens or Alliance Boots, the parties' ability to realize anticipated synergies, the parties' ability to achieve anticipated financial results, the amount of costs, fees, expenses and charges incurred by Walgreens and Alliance Boots related to the transaction, the risks associated with international business operations, the risks associated with governance and control matters, whether the option to acquire the remainder of the Alliance Boots equity interest will be exercised and the financial ramifications thereof, Walgreens' ability to timely arrange for and consummate permanent financing to replace the bridge facility entered into in connection with the transaction on acceptable terms, changes in vendor, payer and customer relationships and terms, changes in network participation, and other factors described in Item 1A (Risk Factors) of Walgreens most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as amended, each of which is incorporated herein by reference and in other documents that Walgreens files or furnishes with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated or anticipated by such forward-looking statements. Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent required by law, Walgreens does not undertake, and expressly disclaims, any duty or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement after the date of this release, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise.


