FILE:WAG/WAG-8K-20120913171334.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On September 13, 2012, Walgreen Co. (the "Company") completed the issuance and sale of $550 million aggregate principal amount of its floating rate notes due 2014, $750 million aggregate principal amount of its 1.000% notes due 2015, $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of its 1.800% notes due 2017, $1.2 billion aggregate principal amount of its 3.100% notes due 2022 and $500 million aggregate principal amount of its 4.400% notes due 2042 (collectively, the "Notes") (the "Notes Offering").
The Notes Offering was made pursuant to the Company's effective Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-175649) (the "Registration Statement") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 18, 2011. On September 11, 2012, the Company filed a Prospectus Supplement dated September 10, 2012 (the "Prospectus Supplement") to the Prospectus dated July 18, 2011.
The Notes were issued under an Indenture dated as of July 17, 2008 between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee, in the form filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the Registration Statement (the "Indenture"). The forms of floating rate notes due 2014, 1.000% notes due 2015, 1.800% notes due 2017, 3.100% notes due 2022 and 4.400% notes due 2042 are filed herewith as Exhibits 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5, respectively.
In connection with the Notes Offering, the Company entered into an Underwriting Agreement, dated September 10, 2012, with Goldman Sachs & Co. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein (the "Underwriting Agreement"). The Underwriting Agreement is attached as Exhibit 1.1 to this Current Report. From time to time, certain of the underwriters named in the Underwriting Agreement and their affiliates have provided, and may in the future provide, various financial advisory, investment banking, commercial banking or investment management services, or other activities and services to the Company or its affiliates, for which they have received and may continue to receive customary fees and expenses. As described in the Prospectus Supplement, affiliates of certain of the underwriters were lenders and/or agents under the bridge term loan which the Company repaid in full using a portion of the net proceeds from the Notes Offering.
Please refer to the Prospectus Supplement for additional information regarding the terms and conditions of the Notes, the Underwriting Agreement and the Notes Offering. The foregoing summary of the Underwriting Agreement and the Notes does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of (i) the Underwriting Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit 1.1; (ii) the Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the Registration Statement; and (iii) the forms of the Notes attached hereto as Exhibits 4.1 through 4.5, inclusive, each of which are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) . The following exhibits are provided as part of this Form 8-K:
Exhibits
Statements in this report that are not historical are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expect," "likely," "outlook," "forecast," "would," "could," "should," "can," "will," "project," "intend," "plan," "goal," "continue," "sustain," "synergy," "on track," "believe," "seek," "estimate," "anticipate," "may," "possible," "assume," variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to vary materially from those indicated, including those described in Item 1A (Risk Factors) of our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as amended, each of which is incorporated herein by reference and in other documents that we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated or anticipated by such forward-looking statements. Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent required by law, Walgreens does not undertake, and expressly disclaims, any duty or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement after the date of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 1.1
EXECUTION VERSION
September 10, 2012
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
As Representatives of the
several Underwriters listed
in Schedule 1 hereto
c/o Goldman, Sachs & Co.
200 West Street
New York, New York 10282-2198
c/o Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
One Bryant Park
New York, New York 10036
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Walgreen Co., an Illinois corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the several Underwriters listed in Schedule 1 hereto (the "Underwriters"), for whom Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated are acting as representatives (the "Representatives"), the principal amount of each of its debt securities identified in Schedule 1 hereto (collectively, the "Securities"). The Securities will be issued pursuant to a base indenture dated as of July 17, 2008 (the "Base Indenture") between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"). Certain terms of the Securities will be established pursuant to a resolution of the board of directors of the Company and set forth in an officers' certificate (the "Supplemental Terms," and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture").
Net proceeds from the issuance of the Securities will be used, in part, to repay the Company's 364-day bridge term loan that was used to fund, in part, the acquisition (the "Investment") of 45% of the capital stock of Alliance Boots GmbH ("Alliance Boots"), a private limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Switzerland, pursuant to a purchase and option agreement, dated as of June 18, 2012, between AB Acquisitions Holding Limited, the Company and Alliance Boots (the "Purchase Agreement"). Remaining net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes, including the USA Drug transaction (as defined in the Preliminary Prospectus).
The Company hereby confirms its agreement with the several Underwriters concerning the purchase and sale of the Securities, as follows:
 
1. . The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "Securities Act"), a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-175649), including a prospectus, relating to the Securities. Such registration statement, as amended at the time it becomes effective, including the information, if any, deemed pursuant to Rule 430A, 430B or 430C under the Securities Act to be part of the registration statement at the time of its effectiveness ("Rule 430 Information"), is referred to herein as the "Registration Statement"; and as used herein, the term "Preliminary Prospectus" means each prospectus included in such registration statement (and any amendments thereto) before it becomes effective, any prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(a) under the Securities Act and the prospectus included in the Registration Statement at the time of its effectiveness that omits Rule 430 Information, and the term "Prospectus" means the prospectus in the form first used (or made available upon request of purchasers pursuant to Rule 173 under the Securities Act) in connection with confirmation of sales of the Securities. If the Company has filed an abbreviated registration statement pursuant to Rule 462(b) under the Securities Act (the "Rule 462 Registration Statement"), then any reference herein to the term "Registration Statement" shall be deemed to include such Rule 462 Registration Statement. Any reference in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act, as of the effective date of the Registration Statement or the date of such Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be and any reference to "amend", "amendment" or "supplement" with respect to the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include any documents filed after such date under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "Exchange Act") that are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.
Registration Statement
At or prior to 4:00 p.m. New York City Time on September 10, 2012 (the "Time of Sale"), the Company had prepared the following information: a Preliminary Prospectus dated September 10, 2012, and each "free-writing prospectus" (as defined pursuant to Rule 405 under the Securities Act) listed on Annex B-1 hereto as constituting part of the Time of Sale Information (collectively, the "Time of Sale Information").
2. . (a) The Company agrees to issue and sell the Securities to the several Underwriters as provided in this Agreement, and each Underwriter, on the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements set forth herein and subject to the conditions set forth herein, agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the respective principal amount of Securities set forth opposite the name of such Underwriter in Schedule 1 hereto at the prices set forth in Schedule 2 hereto of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest, if any, from September 13, 2012 to the Closing Date (as defined below). The Company will not be obligated to deliver any of the Securities except upon payment for all the Securities to be purchased as provided herein.
Purchase of the Securities by the Underwriters
(b) The Company understands that the Underwriters intend to make a public offering of the Securities and initially to offer the Securities on the terms set forth in the
 
Prospectus. The Company acknowledges and agrees that the Underwriters may offer and sell Securities to or through any affiliate of an Underwriter and that any such affiliate may offer and sell Securities purchased by it to or through any Underwriter.
(c) Payment for and delivery of the Securities will be made at the offices of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York, 10153 at 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on September 13, 2012 or at such other time or place on the same or such other date, not later than the fifth business day thereafter, as the Representatives and the Company may agree upon in writing. The time and date of such payment and delivery is referred to herein as the "Closing Date."
(d) Payment for the Securities shall be made by wire transfer in immediately available funds to the account(s) specified by the Company to the Representatives against delivery to the nominee of The Depository Trust Company, for the account of the Underwriters, of one or more global notes representing the Securities (collectively, the "Global Note"), with any transfer taxes payable in connection with the sale of the Securities duly paid by the Company. The Global Note will be made available for inspection by the Representatives not later than 1:00 P.M., New York City time, on the business day prior to the Closing Date.
(e) The Company acknowledges and agrees that the Underwriters are acting solely in the capacity of an arm's length contractual counterparty to the Company with respect to the offering of Securities contemplated hereby (including in connection with determining the terms of the offering) and not as a financial advisor or a fiduciary to, or an agent of, the Company or any other person. Additionally, neither the Representatives nor any other Underwriter is advising the Company or any other person as to any legal, tax, investment, accounting or regulatory matters in any jurisdiction. The Company shall consult with its own advisors concerning such matters and shall be responsible for making its own independent investigation and appraisal of the transactions contemplated hereby, and the Underwriters shall have no responsibility or liability to the Company with respect thereto. Any review by the Underwriters of the Company, the transactions contemplated hereby or other matters relating to such transactions will be performed solely for the benefit of the Underwriters and shall not be on behalf of the Company. Goldman Sachs & Co. has been retained by the Company (and its affiliates) as financial advisor (in such capacity, the "Financial Advisor") in connection with the Investment. The Company acknowledges such retention, and further agrees not to assert any claim the Company might allege based on any actual or potential conflicts of interest that might be asserted to arise or result solely from, on the one hand, the engagement of the Financial Advisor and, on the other hand, Goldman Sachs & Co. and its affiliates' relationships with the Company pursuant to this Agreement (it being understood the foregoing shall not constitute a modification or waiver of any of the provisions of the engagement letter, dated as of June 18, 2012 by and among the Company, Goldman Sachs & Co. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated or the engagement letter, dated as of May 6, 2011 by and between the Company and Goldman Sachs & Co.).
3. . The Company represents and warrants to each Underwriter that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, including controls and procedures designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. The Company and its subsidiaries have carried out evaluations of the effectiveness of their disclosure controls and procedures as required by Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. . The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter that:
Further Agreements of the Company
(a) . The Company will file the final Prospectus with the Commission within the time periods specified by Rule 424(b) and Rule 430A, 430B or 430C under the Securities Act, will file any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (including the Term Sheets in the forms of Annex C hereto) to the extent required by Rule 433 under the Securities Act; and will file promptly all reports and any definitive proxy or information statements required to be filed by the Company with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act subsequent to the date of the Prospectus and for so long as the delivery of a prospectus is required in connection with the offering or sale of the Securities; and the Company will furnish copies of the Prospectus and each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (to the extent not previously delivered) to the Underwriters in New York City prior to 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on the second business day next succeeding the date of this Agreement in such quantities as the Representatives may reasonably request. The Company will pay the registration fees for this offering within the time period required by Rule 456(b)(1)(i) under the Securities Act (without giving effect to the proviso therein) and in any event prior to the Closing Date.
Required Filings
(b) . The Company will deliver, without charge, (i) to the Representatives, copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and each amendment thereto, in each case including all exhibits and consents filed therewith and documents incorporated by reference therein (unless publicly available on the Company's website or the website of the Commission), to the extent reasonably requested by the Representatives; and (ii) to each Underwriter (A) a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and each amendment thereto, in each case including all exhibits and consents filed therewith (unless publicly available on the Company's website or the website of the Commission), to the extent reasonably requested by the Representatives and (B) during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below), as many copies of the Prospectus (including all amendments and supplements thereto and documents incorporated by reference therein) and each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus as the Representatives may reasonably request. As used herein, the term "Prospectus Delivery Period" means such period of time after the first date of the public offering of the Securities as in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters a prospectus relating to the Securities is required by law to be delivered (or required to be delivered but for Rule 172 under the Securities Act) in connection with sales of the Securities by any Underwriter or dealer.
Delivery of Copies
(c) . Before using, authorizing, approving, referring to or filing any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and before filing any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus during the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company will furnish to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters a copy of the proposed Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, amendment or supplement for review and will not use, authorize, approve, refer to or file any such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or file any such proposed amendment or supplement to which the Representatives reasonably object, unless in the reasonable judgment of the Company and its
Amendments or Supplements; Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
 
counsel, such proposed amendment or supplement is necessary to comply with law or to make the statements contained in the Registration Statement, Time of Sale Information, Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, not misleading.
(d) . During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company will advise the Representatives promptly, and confirm such advice in writing, (i) when any amendment to the Registration Statement has been filed or becomes effective; (ii) when any supplement to the Prospectus or any amendment to the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus has been filed; (iii) of any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or the receipt of any comments from the Commission relating to the Registration Statement or any other request by the Commission for any additional information; (iv) of the issuance by the Commission of any order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or preventing or suspending the use of any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for that purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act; (v) of the occurrence of any event within the Prospectus Delivery Period as a result of which the Prospectus, the Time of Sale Information or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Prospectus, the Time of Sale Information or any such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading; (vi) of the receipt by the Company of any notice of objection of the Commission to the use of the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act or if the Company otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration form; and (vii) of the receipt by the Company of any notice with respect to any suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offer and sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose; and the Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, preventing or suspending the use of any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or suspending any such qualification of the Securities and, if any such order is issued, will obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
Notice to the Representatives
(e) . If at any time prior to the Closing Date (i) any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which the Time of Sale Information as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances, not misleading or (ii) it is necessary to amend or supplement the Time of Sale Information to comply with law, the Company will immediately notify the Underwriters thereof and forthwith prepare and, subject to paragraph (c) above, file with the Commission (to the extent required) and furnish to the Underwriters and to such dealers as the Representatives may designate, such amendments or supplements to the Time of Sale Information as may be necessary so that the statements in the Time of Sale Information as so amended or supplemented will not, in the light of the circumstances, be misleading or so that the Time of Sale Information will comply with law.
Time of Sale Information
(f) . If during the Prospectus Delivery Period (i) any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which the Prospectus as then amended or
Ongoing Compliance
 
supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading or (ii) it is necessary to amend or supplement the Prospectus to comply with law, the Company will immediately notify the Underwriters thereof and forthwith prepare and, subject to paragraph (c) above, file with the Commission and furnish to the Underwriters and to such dealers as the Representatives may designate, such amendments or supplements to the Prospectus as may be necessary so that the statements in the Prospectus as so amended or supplemented will not, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, be misleading or so that the Prospectus will comply with law.
(g) . The Company will qualify the Securities for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives shall reasonably request and will continue such qualifications in effect so long as required for distribution of the Securities; that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any such jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to so qualify, (ii) file any general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction or (iii) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not otherwise so subject.
Blue Sky Compliance
provided
(h) . The Company will make generally available to its security holders and the Representatives as soon as practicable an earning statement that satisfies the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 of the Commission promulgated thereunder covering a period of at least twelve months beginning with the first fiscal quarter of the Company occurring after the "effective date" (as defined in Rule 158) of the Registration Statement.
Earning Statement
(i) . During the period from the date hereof through and including the business day following the Closing Date, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives, offer, sell, contract to sell or otherwise dispose of any debt securities issued or guaranteed by the Company and having a tenor of more than one year.
Clear Market
(j) . The Company will apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Securities as described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus under the heading "Use of Proceeds."
Use of Proceeds
(k) . The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that could reasonably be expected to cause or result in any stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Securities.
No Stabilization
(l) . The Company will, pursuant to reasonable procedures developed in good faith, retain copies of each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 433 under the Securities Act.
Record Retention
(m) . To the extent the Representatives notify the Company at least 30 days prior to the Renewal Deadline (as defined below), that there is a reasonable possibility, that as of immediately prior to the third anniversary
Registration Statement Renewal Deadline
 
(the "Renewal Deadline") of the initial effective date of the Registration Statement, any of the Securities will remain unsold by the Underwriters, if immediately prior to the Renewal Deadline, any of the Securities remain unsold by the Underwriters, the Company will prior to the Renewal Deadline file, if it has not already done so and is eligible to do so, a new automatic shelf registration statement relating to the Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives. If the Company is no longer eligible to file an automatic shelf registration statement, the Company will prior to the Renewal Deadline, if it has not already done so, file a new shelf registration statement relating to the Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, and will use its best efforts to cause such registration statement to be declared effective within 90 days after the Renewal Deadline. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Securities to continue as contemplated in the expired registration statement relating to the Securities. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new automatic shelf registration statement or such new shelf registration statement, as the case may be.
(n) . If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form (as specified in Section 3(d)(vii) hereof), the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement or post-effective amendment to be declared effective and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Securities to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
Notice of Inability to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Statement Form
5. . Each Underwriter hereby represents and agrees that:
Certain Agreements of the Underwriters
(a) It has not and will not use, authorize use of, refer to, or participate in the planning for use of, any "free writing prospectus", as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act (which term includes use of any written information furnished to the Commission by the Company and not incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and any press release issued by the Company) other than (i) a free writing prospectus that, solely as a result of use by such underwriter, would not trigger an obligation to file such free writing prospectus with the Commission pursuant to Rule 433, (ii) any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus listed on Annex B-1 and Annex B-2 or prepared pursuant to Section 3(c) or Section 4(c) above (including any electronic road show), or (iii) any free writing prospectus prepared by such underwriter and approved by the Company in advance in writing (each such free writing prospectus referred to in clauses (i) or (iii), an "Underwriter Free Writing Prospectus"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Underwriters may use any term sheet substantially in the form of Annex C hereto without the consent of the Company.
 
(b) It is not subject to any pending proceeding under Section 8A of the Securities Act with respect to the offering (and will promptly notify the Company is any such proceeding against it is initiated during the Prospectus Delivery Period).
(c) It agrees that it has complied and will comply with the selling restrictions in connection with the offering of Securities as set forth in Annex D hereto.
6. . The obligation of each Underwriter to purchase Securities on the Closing Date as provided herein is subject to the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions:
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations
(a) . No order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall be in effect, and no proceeding for such purpose, pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or pursuant to Section 8A under the Securities Act shall be pending before or threatened by the Commission; the Prospectus and each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus shall have been timely filed with the Commission under the Securities Act (in the case of a Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, to the extent required by Rule 433 under the Securities Act) and in accordance with Section 4(a) hereof; and all requests by the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of the Representatives.
Registration Compliance; No Stop Order
(b) . The representations and warranties of the Company contained herein shall be true and correct on the date hereof and on and as of the Closing Date; and the statements of the Company and its officers made in any certificates delivered pursuant to this Agreement shall be true and correct on and as of the Closing Date.
Representations and Warranties
(c) . Subsequent to the earlier of (A) the Time of Sale and (B) the execution and delivery of this Agreement, (i) no downgrading shall have occurred in the rating accorded the Securities or any other debt securities or preferred stock of or guaranteed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization", as such term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act and (ii) no such organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, or has changed its outlook with respect to, its rating of the Securities or of any other debt securities or preferred stock of or guaranteed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading).
No Downgrade
(d) . No event or condition of a type described in Section 3(g) hereof shall have occurred or shall exist, which event or condition is not described in the Time of Sale Information (excluding any amendment or supplement thereto) and the Prospectus (excluding any amendment or supplement thereto) and the effect of which in the judgment of the Representatives makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
No Material Adverse Change
(e) . The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Date a certificate of an executive officer of the Company who has specific
Officer's Certificate
 
knowledge of the Company's financial matters and is satisfactory to the Representatives (i) confirming that such officer has reviewed the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus and, to the best knowledge of such officer, the representations set forth in Sections 3(b) and 3(d) hereof are true and correct, (ii) confirming that the other representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct and that the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date and (iii) to the effect set forth in paragraphs (a), (c) and (d) above.
(f) . On the date of this Agreement and on the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received a certificate of the Chief Financial Officer, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives.
Certificate of the Chief Financial Officer
(g) . On the date of this Agreement and on the Closing Date, Deloitte & Touche LLP shall have furnished to the Representatives, at the request of the Company, letters, dated the respective dates of delivery thereof and addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, containing statements and information of the type customarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the Company's financial statements and certain Company financial information contained or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus; that the letter delivered on the Closing Date shall use a "cut-off" date no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Comfort Letters for the Company
provided
(h) . On the date of this Agreement and on the Closing Date, KPMG Audit Plc shall have furnished to the Representatives, at the request of the Company, letters, dated the respective dates of delivery thereof and addressed to the Underwriters, to the effect set forth in Annex A-3 hereto; that the letter delivered on the Closing Date shall use a "cut-off" date no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Comfort Letters for Alliance Boots
provided
(i) . (i) Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz LLP, counsel for the Company, shall have furnished to the Representatives, at the request of the Company, their written opinion and 10b-5 Statement, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect set forth in Annex A-1 hereto; and (ii) Thomas Sabatino, Jr., General Counsel of the Company, shall have furnished to the Representatives, at the request of the Company, his written opinion, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect set forth in Annex A-2 hereto.
Opinion and 10b-5 Statement of Counsel for the Company
(j) . The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Date an opinion and 10b-5 Statement of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, with respect to such matters as the Representatives may reasonably request, and such counsel shall have received such documents and information as they may reasonably request to enable them to pass upon such matters.
Opinion and 10b-5 Statement of Counsel for the Underwriters
 
(k) . No action shall have been taken and no statute, rule, regulation or order shall have been enacted, adopted or issued by any federal, state or foreign governmental or regulatory authority that would, as of the Closing Date, prevent the issuance or sale of the Securities; and no injunction or order of any federal, state or foreign court shall have been issued that would, as of the Closing Date, prevent the issuance or sale of the Securities.
No Legal Impediment to Issuance
(l) . The Representatives shall have received on the Closing Date satisfactory evidence as of the Closing Date or a date prior to the Closing Date that is reasonably acceptable to the Representatives of the good standing of the Company and its Material Subsidiaries in their respective jurisdictions of organization and their good standing in such other jurisdictions as the Representatives may reasonably request, in each case in writing or any standard form of telecommunication from the appropriate governmental authorities of such jurisdictions.
Good Standing
(m) . On or prior to the Closing Date, the Company shall have furnished to the Representatives such further certificates and documents as the Representatives may reasonably request.
Additional Documents
All opinions, letters, certificates and evidence mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall be deemed to be in compliance with the provisions hereof only if they are in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters.
7. .
Indemnification and Contribution
(a) . The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its affiliates, directors and officers and each person, if any, who controls such Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted, as such fees and expenses are incurred), joint or several, that arise out of, or are based upon, (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, not misleading, (ii) or any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or any Time of Sale Information, or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein.
Indemnification of the Underwriters
(b) . Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, its officers who signed
Indemnification of the Company
 
the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in paragraph (a) above, but only with respect to any losses, claims, damages or liabilities that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to such Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or any Time of Sale Information, it being understood and agreed that the only such information consists of the following: the two paragraphs under the subsection entitled "Stabilization and Short Positions" under the caption "Underwriting."
(c) . If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any person in respect of which indemnification may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) above, such person (the "Indemnified Person") shall promptly notify the person against whom such indemnification may be sought (the "Indemnifying Person") in writing; that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under this Section 7 except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and , , that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an Indemnified Person otherwise than under paragraph (a) or (b) above. If any such proceeding shall be brought or asserted against an Indemnified Person and it shall have notified the Indemnifying Person thereof, the Indemnifying Person shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person (who shall not, without the consent of the Indemnified Person, be counsel to the Indemnifying Person) to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to Section 7 that the Indemnifying Party may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of counsel related to such proceeding, as incurred. In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary; (ii) the Indemnifying Person has failed within a reasonable time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person; (iii) the Indemnified Person shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to the Indemnifying Person; or (iv) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interest between them. It is understood and agreed that the Indemnifying Person shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceeding in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. Any such separate firm for any Underwriter, its affiliates, directors and officers and any control persons of such Underwriter shall be designated in writing by the Representatives and any such separate firm for the Company, its directors, its officers who signed the Registration Statement and any control persons of the Company shall be designated in writing by the Company. The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any
Notice and Procedures
provided
provided
further
 
proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Person shall have requested that an Indemnifying Person reimburse the Indemnified Person for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by this paragraph, the Indemnifying Person shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by the Indemnifying Person of such request and (ii) the Indemnifying Person shall not have reimbursed the Indemnified Person in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No Indemnifying Person shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (x) includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (y) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person.
(d) . If the indemnification provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) above is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the net proceeds (before deducting expenses) received by the Company from the sale of the Securities and the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters in connection therewith, in each case as set forth in the table on the cover of the Prospectus, bear to the aggregate offering price of the Securities. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
Contribution
(e) . The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (d) above. The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to
Limitation on Liability
pro
rata
 
include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, in no event shall an Underwriter be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by such Underwriter with respect to the offering of the Securities exceeds the amount of any damages that such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 7 are several in proportion to their respective purchase obligations hereunder and not joint.
(f) . The remedies provided for in this Section 7 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies which may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Person at law or in equity.
Non-Exclusive Remedies
8. . This Agreement shall become effective upon the execution and delivery hereof by the parties hereto.
Effectiveness of Agreement
9. . This Agreement may be terminated in the absolute discretion of the Representatives, by notice to the Company, if after the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date (i) trading generally shall have been suspended or materially limited on the New York Stock Exchange or the over-the-counter market; (ii) trading of any securities issued or guaranteed by the Company shall have been suspended on any exchange or in any over-the-counter market; (iii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities shall have been declared by federal or New York State authorities; or (iv) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities or any change in financial markets or any calamity or crisis, either within or outside the United States, that, in the judgment of the Representatives, is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
Termination
10. . (a) If, on the Closing Date, any Underwriter defaults on its obligation to purchase the Securities that it has agreed to purchase hereunder, the non-defaulting Underwriters may in their discretion arrange for the purchase of such Securities by other persons satisfactory to the Company on the terms contained in this Agreement. If, within 36 hours after any such default by any Underwriter, the non-defaulting Underwriters do not arrange for the purchase of such Securities, then the Company shall be entitled to a further period of 36 hours within which to procure other persons satisfactory to the non-defaulting Underwriters to purchase such Securities on such terms. If other persons become obligated or agree to purchase the Securities of a defaulting Underwriter, either the non-defaulting Underwriters or the Company may postpone the Closing Date for up to five full business days in order to effect any changes that in the opinion of counsel for the Company or counsel for the Underwriters may be necessary in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus or in any other document or arrangement, and the Company agrees to promptly prepare any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement and the Prospectus that effects any such changes. As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" includes, for all purposes of this Agreement
Defaulting Underwriter
 
unless the context otherwise requires, any person not listed in Schedule 1 hereto that, pursuant to this Section 10, purchases Securities that a defaulting Underwriter agreed but failed to purchase.
(b) If, after giving effect to any arrangements for the purchase of the Securities of a defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters by the non-defaulting Underwriters and the Company as provided in paragraph (a) above, the aggregate principal amount of such Securities that remains unpurchased does not exceed one-eleventh of the aggregate principal amount of all the Securities, then the Company shall have the right to require each non-defaulting Underwriter to purchase the principal amount of Securities that such Underwriter agreed to purchase hereunder plus such Underwriter's share (based on the principal amount of Securities that such Underwriter agreed to purchase hereunder) of the Securities of such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters for which such arrangements have not been made.
pro
rata
(c) If, after giving effect to any arrangements for the purchase of the Securities of a defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters by the non-defaulting Underwriters and the Company as provided in paragraph (a) above, the aggregate principal amount of such Securities that remains unpurchased exceeds one-eleventh of the aggregate principal amount of all the Securities, or if the Company shall not exercise the right described in paragraph (b) above, then this Agreement shall terminate without liability on the part of the non-defaulting Underwriters. Any termination of this Agreement pursuant to this Section 10 shall be without liability on the part of the Company, except that the Company will continue to be liable for the payment of expenses as set forth in Section 11 hereof and except that the provisions of Section 7 hereof shall not terminate and shall remain in effect.
(d) Nothing contained herein shall relieve a defaulting Underwriter of any liability it may have to the Company or any non-defaulting Underwriter for damages caused by its default.
11. . (a) Whether or not the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are consummated or this Agreement is terminated, the Company will pay or cause to be paid all costs and expenses incident to the performance of its obligations hereunder, including without limitation, (i) the costs incident to the authorization, issuance, sale, preparation and delivery of the Securities and any taxes payable in that connection; (ii) the costs incident to the preparation, printing and filing under the Securities Act of the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus (including all exhibits, amendments and supplements thereto) and the distribution thereof; (iii) the costs of reproducing and distributing each of the Transaction Documents; (iv) the fees and expenses of the Company's counsel and independent accountants; (v) the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the registration or qualification and determination of eligibility for investment of the Securities under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives may designate and the preparation, printing and distribution of a Blue Sky Memorandum (including the related fees and expenses of counsel for the Underwriters); (vi) any fees charged by rating agencies for rating the Securities; (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee and any paying agent (including related fees and expenses of any counsel to such parties); (viii) all expenses and application fees incurred in connection with any filing with, and clearance of the offering by, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority; (ix) all expenses incurred by the Company in connection with any "road show" presentation to potential investors,
Payment of Expenses
 
if any; and (x) all expenses and application fees related to the listing of the Securities on any securities exchange.
(b) If (i) this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 9(ii), (ii) the Company for any reason (other than a breach by any Underwriter hereunder) fails to tender the Securities for delivery to the Underwriters or (iii) the Underwriters decline to purchase the Securities for any reason permitted under this Agreement, the Company agrees to reimburse the Underwriters for all out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including the fees and expenses of their counsel) reasonably incurred by the Underwriters in connection with this Agreement and the offering contemplated hereby.
12. . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and any controlling persons referred to herein, and the affiliates of each Underwriter referred to in Section 7 hereof. Nothing in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any other person any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision contained herein. No purchaser of Securities from any Underwriter shall be deemed to be a successor merely by reason of such purchase.
Persons Entitled to Benefit of Agreement
13. . The respective indemnities, rights of contribution, representations, warranties and agreements of the Company and the Underwriters contained in this Agreement or made by or on behalf of the Company or the Underwriters pursuant to this Agreement or any certificate delivered pursuant hereto shall survive the delivery of and payment for the Securities and shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any termination of this Agreement or any investigation made by or on behalf of the Company or the Underwriters.
Survival
14. . For purposes of this Agreement, and subject to the first sentence of Section 3(dd), (a) except where otherwise expressly provided, the term "affiliate" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act; (b) the term "business day" means any day other than a day on which banks are permitted or required to be closed in New York City; (c) the term "subsidiary" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
Certain Defined Terms
15. . (a) . Any action by the Underwriters hereunder may be taken by the Representatives on behalf of the Underwriters, and any such action taken by the Representatives shall be binding upon the Underwriters.
Miscellaneous
Authority of the Representatives
(b) . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted and confirmed by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Underwriters shall be given to the Representatives c/o Goldman, Sachs & Co., 200 West Street, New York, New York 10282-2198, Attention: Registration Department and c/o Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, 50 Rockefeller Plaza, NY1-050-12-01, New York, New York 10020 (fax: 646-855-5958), Attention: High Grade Transactions Management/Legal. Notices to the Company shall be given to it at 108 Wilmot Road, Deerfield, Illinois 60015 (fax: 847-315-3652); Attention: Thomas Sabatino, Jr. In accordance with the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)), the Underwriters are required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies their respective clients, including the Company, which
Notices
 
information may include the name and address of their respective clients, as well as other information that will allow the underwriters to properly identify their respective clients.
(c) . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
(d) . This Agreement may be signed in counterparts (which may include counterparts delivered by any standard form of telecommunication), each of which shall be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
(e) . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor any consent or approval to any departure therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto.
Amendments or Waivers
(f) . The headings herein are included for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be part of, or to affect the meaning or interpretation of, this Agreement.
Headings
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please indicate your acceptance of this Agreement by signing in the space provided below.
 
Accepted as of the date first written above
 
 
[For themselves and on behalf of the several Underwriters listed in Schedule 1 hereto.]
Schedule 1
 
 
 
Schedule 2
 
Schedule 3
Waltrust Properties, Inc.
Bond Drug Company of Illinois, LLC
Walgreen Mercantile Corp.
Walgreen International S.a.r.l.
Walgreen Pharmacy Strategies, LLC

Exhibit 4.1
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE) OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND, UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY, OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY, OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY (AS DEFINED BELOW) OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY SECURITY ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
Walgreen Co., an Illinois corporation (hereinafter called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture referred to below), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of             on March 13, 2014 and to pay interest thereon from September 13, 2012 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, quarterly on March 13, June 13, September 13 and December 13 in each year (each an "Interest Payment Date"), commencing December 13, 2012 at the rate, reset quarterly, equal to three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR plus 0.500% (as determined by Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Calculation Agent (as defined below)), until the principal hereof is paid or duly made available for payment. The interest so payable and punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date shall, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 1, June 1, September 1 or December 1, as the case may be, subject to the Business Day Convention (as defined below), next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Interest on the Notes will be calculated on the basis of the actual number of calendar
days in the calculation period divided by 360. Any such interest which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder hereof on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and may be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Company, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
The Calculation Agent will determine the three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR in accordance with the following provisions: with respect to any Interest Determination Date (as defined below), the three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR will be the rate (expressed as a percentage per annum) for deposits in U.S. dollars having a maturity of three months that appears on the designated LIBOR page (as described below) as of 11:00 a.m., London time, on such Interest Determination Date. If the three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR does not appear on the designated LIBOR page, the three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR, in respect of such Interest Determination Date , will be determined as follows: the Calculation Agent will request the principal London offices of each of four major reference banks in the London interbank market, as selected by the Calculation Agent (after consultation with the Company), to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in U.S. dollars for the period of three months commencing on the applicable Interest Reset Date (as defined below), to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Interest Determination Date and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 for a single transaction in U.S. dollars in such market at such time. If at least two quotations are provided, then the three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR on such Interest Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of such quotations. If fewer than two such quotations are provided, then the three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR on such Interest Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on such Interest Determination Date by three major reference banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent (after consultation with us) for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, having a three-month maturity and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 for a single transaction in U.S. dollars in such market at such time; provided, however, that if the banks selected by the Calculation Agent are not providing quotations in the manner described by this sentence, the three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR determined as of such Interest Determination Date will be the three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR in effect prior to such Interest Determination Date.
The designated LIBOR page shall be: (1) the Reuters screen "LIBOR01" or such other page as may replace the Reuters screen "LIBOR01" on that service or (2) if, on any Interest Determination Date, the three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR does not appear or is not available on such date on the designated Reuters screen described in clause (1) above, the designated LIBOR page shall be Bloomberg L.P. page "BBAM" or such other page as may replace Bloomberg L.P. page "BBAM" on that service.
All percentages resulting from any calculation of any interest rate for the Notes will be rounded, if necessary, to the nearest one hundred thousandth of a percentage point, with five one-
 
millionths of a percentage point rounded upward (e.g., 3.876545% (or .03876545) would be rounded to 3.87655% (or .0387655)), and all U.S. dollar amounts will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward. Each calculation of the interest rate on the Notes by the Calculation Agent will (in the absence of manifest error) be final and binding on the Holders of the Notes and the Company.
"Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which commercial banking institutions in New York City or in the city where the Corporate Trust Office (as defined below) is located are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to be closed.
"Business Day Convention" means if any Interest Payment Date in respect of any Note (other than the Maturity date) is not a Business Day, then such Interest Payment Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day unless that Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, in which case the Interest Payment Date will be the immediately preceding Business Day. If any such Interest Payment Date (other than the Maturity date) is postponed or brought forward as described above, the interest amount will be adjusted accordingly and the holder will be entitled to more or less interest, respectively. If the Stated Maturity in respect of the Notes is not a Business Day, the payment of principal and interest at the Stated Maturity will not be made until the next following Business Day and no further interest will be paid in respect of the delay in such payment.
"Calculation Agent" means Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, in its capacity as calculation agent for the Notes under a Calculation Agency Agreement between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association to be dated as of September 13, 2012.
"Corporate Trust Office" means the principal office of the Trustee from which at any particular time, the Trustee administers the Indenture, which office is presently located at 230 Monroe Street, Suite 2900, Chicago, Illinois 60606, except that with respect to the presentation of Securities for payment or for registration of transfer or exchange and the location of the Securities Registrar such term means the office or agency of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate agency business shall be conducted.
"Interest Determination Date" means, for each Interest Reset Date, the second London Business Day (as defined below) preceding such Interest Reset Date.
"Interest Period" means for the Notes the period beginning on, and including, an Interest Payment Date and ending on, but not including, the following Interest Payment Date; provided that the first Interest Period will begin on September 13, 2012, and will end on, but not include, the first Interest Payment Date.
"Interest Reset Date" means for each Interest Period, other than the first Interest Period, the first day of such Interest Period.
"London Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which commercial banking institutions are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to be closed in London.
 
Each Note will cease to bear interest upon Maturity unless, upon due presentation, payment of the amount due is improperly withheld or refused, in which case it will continue to bear interest (before as well as after judgment) until the day on which all sums due in respect of such Note up to that day are received by or on behalf of the relevant holder of such Note.
Payment of the principal of and the interest on this Note shall be made at the designated office of the Trustee (as defined below) at Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, Corporate Trust Operations, 608 Second Avenue South, N9303-121, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479, Attn: Corporate Trust Operations, in such currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided, however, that at the option of the Company, interest may be paid by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register, provided, further, that payment to DTC or any successor depositary may be made by wire transfer to the account maintained with a bank in the United States designated by DTC or such successor depositary in writing.
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Notes"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of July 17, 2008 (herein called, together with all indentures supplemental thereto, the "Indenture") between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture, all indentures supplemental thereto and the Officers' Certificate dated September 13, 2012 (the "Officers' Certificate") reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited (subject to exceptions provided in the Indenture) to the aggregate principal amount specified in the Officers' Certificate establishing the terms of the Notes pursuant to the Indenture.
If a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined below) occurs with respect to the Notes, the Company shall make an offer (a "Change of Control Offer") to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes on the terms set forth herein. In a Change of Control Offer, the Company shall offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase (a "Change of Control Payment").
Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control (as defined below), but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice shall be mailed to each Holder and the Trustee, describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the applicable notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (a "Change of Control Payment Date"). The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the applicable Change of Control Payment Date.
 
On each Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
 
 
 
The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer. In addition, the Company shall not repurchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder, to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the Company shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes by virtue of any such conflict and compliance.
For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the following defined terms shall have the meanings specified:
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of the Company's subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person, other than the Company or one of its subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock (as defined below) or other Voting Stock into which the Company's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or the Voting Stock of such other person is converted into or
 
exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors (as defined below); or (5) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction shall not be deemed to involve a Change of Control under clause (2) above if (i) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of a holding company and (ii)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no person (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company. The term "person," as used in this definition, has the meaning given thereto in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
"Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event (as defined below).
"Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued; or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's (as defined below) and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P (as defined below), and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement Rating Agency or Rating Agencies (as defined below) selected by the Company.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and its successors.
"Rating Agencies" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
"Rating Event" means the rating on the Notes is lowered by both Rating Agencies and the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by both Rating Agencies, in any case on any day during the period (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) commencing upon the first public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or our intention to effect a Change of Control and ending 60 days following the consummation of such Change of Control.
 
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
"Voting Stock" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as such term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
The Notes are not subject to any sinking fund.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Note or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Note, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the then-outstanding principal of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the right of the Holder of this Note, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of and, subject to certain qualifications in the Indenture, interest on this Note at the times herein and in the Indenture prescribed and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment unless the Holder of this Note shall have consented to the impairment of such right.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations set forth therein, the transfer of this Note may be registered in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the Office or Agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or by his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, shall be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
The Notes are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. Subject to certain limitations therein set forth in the Indenture and in this Note, the Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series in different authorized denominations, as requested by the Holders surrendering the same.
No service charge by the Company shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge and any other expenses payable in connection therewith, other than in certain cases provided in the Indenture.
Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
The Indenture contains provisions whereby (i) the Company may be discharged from its obligations with respect to the Notes (subject to certain exceptions) or (ii) the Company may be released from its obligations under specified covenants and agreements in the Indenture, in each case if the Company irrevocably deposits with the Trustee money or U.S. Government Obligations sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on all Notes of this series, and satisfies certain other conditions, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee under the Indenture by the manual signature of one of its authorized signatories, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefits under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated: September     , 2012
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: September     , 2012
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations.
 
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
 
                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                          
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
(Please insert Assignee's legal name)
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
(Please insert Social Security or other identifying number of Assignee)
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
(Please print or typewrite name and address including postal zip code of Assignee)
the within Note of WALGREEN CO. and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint                                                                    attorney to transfer the said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
Dated:
                    
 
 
[NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within instrument in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever.]
The following increases or decreases in this global Security have been made:
 

Exhibit 4.2
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE) OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND, UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY, OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY, OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY (AS DEFINED BELOW) OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY SECURITY ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
Walgreen Co., an Illinois corporation (hereinafter called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture referred to below), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of             on March 13, 2015 and to pay interest thereon from September 13, 2012 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on March 13 and September 13 in each year (each an "Interest Payment Date"), commencing March 13, 2013 at the rate of 1.000% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or duly made available for payment. The interest so payable and punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date shall, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 1 or September 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Interest on the Notes shall be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. If the Interest Payment Date or Maturity date of the Notes, as applicable, is not a Business Day, then that interest or principal will be paid on the next succeeding Business Day and no further
interest will be paid in respect of the delay in such payment. Any such interest which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder hereof on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and may be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Company, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of the principal of and the interest on this Note shall be made at the designated office of the Trustee (as defined below) at Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, Corporate Trust Operations, 608 Second Avenue South, N9303-121, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479, Attn: Corporate Trust Operations, in such currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided, however, that at the option of the Company, interest may be paid by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register, provided, further, that payment to DTC or any successor depositary may be made by wire transfer to the account maintained with a bank in the United States designated by DTC or such successor depositary in writing.
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Notes"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of July 17, 2008 (herein called, together with all indentures supplemental thereto, the "Indenture") between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture, all indentures supplemental thereto and the Officers' Certificate dated September 13, 2012 (the "Officers' Certificate") reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited (subject to exceptions provided in the Indenture) to the aggregate principal amount specified in the Officers' Certificate establishing the terms of the Notes pursuant to the Indenture.
The Company may, at its option, redeem the Notes, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of: (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below), plus 12 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but excluding, the date of redemption.
Further, installments of interest on the Notes to be redeemed that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to a redemption date shall be payable on the applicable Interest Payment Date to the Holders thereof as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date.
 
For purposes of the optional redemption provisions of this Note, the following defined terms shall have the meanings specified:
"Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which commercial banking institutions in New York City or in the city where the Corporate Trust Office (as defined below) is located are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to be closed.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent (as defined below) as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations (as defined below) for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, (ii) if the Company obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
"Corporate Trust Office" means the principal office of the Trustee from which at any particular time, the Trustee administers the Indenture, which office is presently located at 230 Monroe Street, Suite 2900, Chicago, Illinois 60606, except that with respect to the presentation of Securities for payment or for registration of transfer or exchange and the location of the Securities Registrar such term means the office or agency of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate agency business shall be conducted.
"Primary Treasury Dealer" means a primary United States government securities dealer in the United States.
"Quotation Agent" means the Reference Treasury Dealer (as defined below) appointed by the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means (i) Goldman, Sachs & Co., and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their respective successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealers the Company selects.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Company, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Company by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
 
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to actual or interpolated maturity (on a day count basis) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
Notice of any redemption shall be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed.
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest shall cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected by the Trustee by a method the Trustee deems to be fair and appropriate, in accordance with applicable DTC procedures.
If a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined below) occurs with respect to the Notes, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem the Notes as described above, the Company shall make an offer (a "Change of Control Offer") to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes on the terms set forth herein. In a Change of Control Offer, the Company shall offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase (a "Change of Control Payment").
Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control (as defined below), but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice shall be mailed to each Holder and the Trustee, describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the applicable notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (a "Change of Control Payment Date"). The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the applicable Change of Control Payment Date.
On each Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
 
 
 
 
The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer. In addition, the Company shall not repurchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder, to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the Company shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes by virtue of any such conflict and compliance.
For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the following defined terms shall have the meanings specified:
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of the Company's subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person, other than the Company or one of its subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock (as defined below) or other Voting Stock into which the Company's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or the Voting Stock of such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors (as defined below); or (5) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction shall not be deemed to involve a Change of Control under clause (2) above if (i) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of a holding company and (ii)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no
 
person (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company. The term "person," as used in this definition, has the meaning given thereto in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
"Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event (as defined below).
"Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued; or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's (as defined below) and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P (as defined below), and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement Rating Agency or Rating Agencies (as defined below) selected by the Company.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and its successors.
"Rating Agencies" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
"Rating Event" means the rating on the Notes is lowered by both Rating Agencies and the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by both Rating Agencies, in any case on any day during the period (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) commencing upon the first public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or our intention to effect a Change of Control and ending 60 days following the consummation of such Change of Control.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
"Voting Stock" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as such term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
The Notes are not subject to any sinking fund.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Note or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Note, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the then-outstanding principal of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the right of the Holder of this Note, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of and, subject to certain qualifications in the Indenture, interest on this Note at the times herein and in the Indenture prescribed and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment unless the Holder of this Note shall have consented to the impairment of such right.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations set forth therein, the transfer of this Note may be registered in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the Office or Agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or by his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, shall be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Notes are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. Subject to certain limitations therein set forth in the Indenture and in this Note, the Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series in different authorized denominations, as requested by the Holders surrendering the same.
No service charge by the Company shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge and any other expenses payable in connection therewith, other than in certain cases provided in the Indenture.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
The Indenture contains provisions whereby (i) the Company may be discharged from its obligations with respect to the Notes (subject to certain exceptions) or (ii) the Company may be released from its obligations under specified covenants and agreements in the Indenture, in each case if the Company irrevocably deposits with the Trustee money or U.S. Government Obligations sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on all Notes of this series, and satisfies certain other conditions, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee under the Indenture by the manual signature of one of its authorized signatories, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefits under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated: September             , 2012
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: September    , 2012
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations.
 
 
Dated:
                                 
 
 
[NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within instrument in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever.]
The following increases or decreases in this global Security have been made:
 

Exhibit 4.3
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE) OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND, UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY, OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY, OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY (AS DEFINED BELOW) OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY SECURITY ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
Walgreen Co., an Illinois corporation (hereinafter called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture referred to below), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of                     on September 15, 2017 and to pay interest thereon from September 13, 2012 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year (each an "Interest Payment Date"), commencing March 15, 2013 at the rate of 1.800% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or duly made available for payment. The interest so payable and punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date shall, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 1 or September 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Interest on the Notes shall be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. If the Interest Payment Date or Maturity date of the Notes, as applicable, is not a Business Day, then that interest or principal will be paid on the next succeeding Business Day and no further
interest will be paid in respect of the delay in such payment. Any such interest which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder hereof on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and may be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Company, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of the principal of and the interest on this Note shall be made at the designated office of the Trustee (as defined below) at Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, Corporate Trust Operations, 608 Second Avenue South, N9303-121, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479, Attn: Corporate Trust Operations, in such currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided, however, that at the option of the Company, interest may be paid by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register, provided, further, that payment to DTC or any successor depositary may be made by wire transfer to the account maintained with a bank in the United States designated by DTC or such successor depositary in writing.
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Notes"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of July 17, 2008 (herein called, together with all indentures supplemental thereto, the "Indenture") between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture, all indentures supplemental thereto and the Officers' Certificate dated September 13, 2012 (the "Officers' Certificate") reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited (subject to exceptions provided in the Indenture) to the aggregate principal amount specified in the Officers' Certificate establishing the terms of the Notes pursuant to the Indenture.
The Company may, at its option, redeem the Notes, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of: (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below), plus 20 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but excluding, the date of redemption.
Further, installments of interest on the Notes to be redeemed that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to a redemption date shall be payable on the applicable Interest Payment Date to the Holders thereof as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date.
 
For purposes of the optional redemption provisions of this Note, the following defined terms shall have the meanings specified:
"Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which commercial banking institutions in New York City or in the city where the Corporate Trust Office (as defined below) is located are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to be closed.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent (as defined below) as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations (as defined below) for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, (ii) if the Company obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
"Corporate Trust Office" means the principal office of the Trustee from which at any particular time, the Trustee administers the Indenture, which office is presently located at 230 Monroe Street, Suite 2900, Chicago, Illinois 60606, except that with respect to the presentation of Securities for payment or for registration of transfer or exchange and the location of the Securities Registrar such term means the office or agency of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate agency business shall be conducted.
"Primary Treasury Dealer" means a primary United States government securities dealer in the United States.
"Quotation Agent" means the Reference Treasury Dealer (as defined below) appointed by the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means (i) Goldman, Sachs & Co., and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their respective successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealers the Company selects.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Company, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Company by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
 
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to actual or interpolated maturity (on a day count basis) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
Notice of any redemption shall be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed.
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest shall cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected by the Trustee by a method the Trustee deems to be fair and appropriate, in accordance with applicable DTC procedures.
If a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined below) occurs with respect to the Notes, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem the Notes as described above, the Company shall make an offer (a "Change of Control Offer") to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes on the terms set forth herein. In a Change of Control Offer, the Company shall offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase (a "Change of Control Payment").
Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control (as defined below), but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice shall be mailed to each Holder and the Trustee, describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the applicable notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (a "Change of Control Payment Date"). The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the applicable Change of Control Payment Date.
On each Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
 
 
 
 
The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer. In addition, the Company shall not repurchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder, to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the Company shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes by virtue of any such conflict and compliance.
For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the following defined terms shall have the meanings specified:
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of the Company's subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person, other than the Company or one of its subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock (as defined below) or other Voting Stock into which the Company's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or the Voting Stock of such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors (as defined below); or (5) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction shall not be deemed to involve a Change of Control under clause (2) above if (i) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of a holding company and (ii)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no
 
person (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company. The term "person," as used in this definition, has the meaning given thereto in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
"Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event (as defined below).
"Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued; or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's (as defined below) and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P (as defined below), and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement Rating Agency or Rating Agencies (as defined below) selected by the Company.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and its successors.
"Rating Agencies" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
"Rating Event" means the rating on the Notes is lowered by both Rating Agencies and the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by both Rating Agencies, in any case on any day during the period (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) commencing upon the first public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or our intention to effect a Change of Control and ending 60 days following the consummation of such Change of Control.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
"Voting Stock" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as such term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
The Notes are not subject to any sinking fund.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Note or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Note, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the then-outstanding principal of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the right of the Holder of this Note, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of and, subject to certain qualifications in the Indenture, interest on this Note at the times herein and in the Indenture prescribed and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment unless the Holder of this Note shall have consented to the impairment of such right.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations set forth therein, the transfer of this Note may be registered in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the Office or Agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or by his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, shall be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Notes are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. Subject to certain limitations therein set forth in the Indenture and in this Note, the Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series in different authorized denominations, as requested by the Holders surrendering the same.
No service charge by the Company shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge and any other expenses payable in connection therewith, other than in certain cases provided in the Indenture.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
The Indenture contains provisions whereby (i) the Company may be discharged from its obligations with respect to the Notes (subject to certain exceptions) or (ii) the Company may be released from its obligations under specified covenants and agreements in the Indenture, in each case if the Company irrevocably deposits with the Trustee money or U.S. Government Obligations sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on all Notes of this series, and satisfies certain other conditions, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee under the Indenture by the manual signature of one of its authorized signatories, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefits under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated: September     , 2012
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: September     , 2012
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations.
 
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
 
 
(Please insert Assignee's legal name)
 
 
(Please insert Social Security or other identifying number of Assignee)
 
 
 
 
(Please print or typewrite name and address including postal zip code of Assignee)
the within Note of WALGREEN CO. and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint                                                               attorney to transfer the said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
Dated:
                                     
 
 
[NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within instrument in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever.]
The following increases or decreases in this global Security have been made:
 

Exhibit 4.4
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE) OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND, UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY, OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY, OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY (AS DEFINED BELOW) OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY SECURITY ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
Walgreen Co., an Illinois corporation (hereinafter called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture referred to below), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of                                          on September 15, 2022 and to pay interest thereon from September 13, 2012 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year (each an "Interest Payment Date"), commencing March 15, 2013 at the rate of 3.100% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or duly made available for payment. The interest so payable and punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date shall, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 1 or September 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Interest on the Notes shall be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. If the Interest Payment Date or Maturity date of the Notes, as applicable, is not a Business Day, then that interest or principal will be paid on the next succeeding Business Day and no further
interest will be paid in respect of the delay in such payment. Any such interest which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder hereof on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and may be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Company, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of the principal of and the interest on this Note shall be made at the designated office of the Trustee (as defined below) at Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, Corporate Trust Operations, 608 Second Avenue South, N9303-121, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479, Attn: Corporate Trust Operations, in such currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided, however, that at the option of the Company, interest may be paid by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register, provided, further, that payment to DTC or any successor depositary may be made by wire transfer to the account maintained with a bank in the United States designated by DTC or such successor depositary in writing.
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Notes"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of July 17, 2008 (herein called, together with all indentures supplemental thereto, the "Indenture") between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture, all indentures supplemental thereto and the Officers' Certificate dated September 13, 2012 (the "Officers' Certificate") reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited (subject to exceptions provided in the Indenture) to the aggregate principal amount specified in the Officers' Certificate establishing the terms of the Notes pursuant to the Indenture.
The Company may, at its option, redeem the Notes, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of: (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below), plus 22 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but excluding, the date of redemption.
Further, installments of interest on the Notes to be redeemed that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to a redemption date shall be payable on the applicable Interest Payment Date to the Holders thereof as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date.
 
For purposes of the optional redemption provisions of this Note, the following defined terms shall have the meanings specified:
"Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which commercial banking institutions in New York City or in the city where the Corporate Trust Office (as defined below) is located are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to be closed.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent (as defined below) as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations (as defined below) for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, (ii) if the Company obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
"Corporate Trust Office" means the principal office of the Trustee from which at any particular time, the Trustee administers the Indenture, which office is presently located at 230 Monroe Street, Suite 2900, Chicago, Illinois 60606, except that with respect to the presentation of Securities for payment or for registration of transfer or exchange and the location of the Securities Registrar such term means the office or agency of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate agency business shall be conducted.
"Primary Treasury Dealer" means a primary United States government securities dealer in the United States.
"Quotation Agent" means the Reference Treasury Dealer (as defined below) appointed by the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means (i) Goldman, Sachs & Co., and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their respective successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealers the Company selects.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Company, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Company by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
 
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to actual or interpolated maturity (on a day count basis) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
Notice of any redemption shall be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed.
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest shall cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected by the Trustee by a method the Trustee deems to be fair and appropriate, in accordance with applicable DTC procedures.
If a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined below) occurs with respect to the Notes, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem the Notes as described above, the Company shall make an offer (a "Change of Control Offer") to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes on the terms set forth herein. In a Change of Control Offer, the Company shall offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase (a "Change of Control Payment").
Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control (as defined below), but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice shall be mailed to each Holder and the Trustee, describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the applicable notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (a "Change of Control Payment Date"). The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the applicable Change of Control Payment Date.
On each Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
 
 
 
 
The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer. In addition, the Company shall not repurchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder, to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the Company shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes by virtue of any such conflict and compliance.
For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the following defined terms shall have the meanings specified:
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of the Company's subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person, other than the Company or one of its subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock (as defined below) or other Voting Stock into which the Company's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or the Voting Stock of such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors (as defined below); or (5) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction shall not be deemed to involve a Change of Control under clause (2) above if (i) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of a holding company and (ii)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no
 
person (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company. The term "person," as used in this definition, has the meaning given thereto in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
"Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event (as defined below).
"Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued; or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's (as defined below) and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P (as defined below), and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement Rating Agency or Rating Agencies (as defined below) selected by the Company.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and its successors.
"Rating Agencies" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
"Rating Event" means the rating on the Notes is lowered by both Rating Agencies and the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by both Rating Agencies, in any case on any day during the period (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) commencing upon the first public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or our intention to effect a Change of Control and ending 60 days following the consummation of such Change of Control.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
"Voting Stock" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as such term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
The Notes are not subject to any sinking fund.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Note or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Note, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the then-outstanding principal of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the right of the Holder of this Note, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of and, subject to certain qualifications in the Indenture, interest on this Note at the times herein and in the Indenture prescribed and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment unless the Holder of this Note shall have consented to the impairment of such right.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations set forth therein, the transfer of this Note may be registered in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the Office or Agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or by his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, shall be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Notes are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. Subject to certain limitations therein set forth in the Indenture and in this Note, the Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series in different authorized denominations, as requested by the Holders surrendering the same.
No service charge by the Company shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge and any other expenses payable in connection therewith, other than in certain cases provided in the Indenture.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
The Indenture contains provisions whereby (i) the Company may be discharged from its obligations with respect to the Notes (subject to certain exceptions) or (ii) the Company may be released from its obligations under specified covenants and agreements in the Indenture, in each case if the Company irrevocably deposits with the Trustee money or U.S. Government Obligations sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on all Notes of this series, and satisfies certain other conditions, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee under the Indenture by the manual signature of one of its authorized signatories, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefits under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated: September     , 2012
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations.
 
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
 
 
(Please insert Assignee's legal name)
 
 
(Please insert Social Security or other identifying number of Assignee)
 
 
 
 
(Please print or typewrite name and address including postal zip code of Assignee)
the within Note of WALGREEN CO. and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint                                                                       attorney to transfer the said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
Dated:
                                
 
 
[NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within instrument in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever.]
The following increases or decreases in this global Security have been made:
 

Exhibit 4.5
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE) OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND, UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY, OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY, OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY (AS DEFINED BELOW) OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY SECURITY ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
Walgreen Co., an Illinois corporation (hereinafter called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture referred to below), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of                      on September 15, 2042 and to pay interest thereon from September 13, 2012 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year (each an "Interest Payment Date"), commencing March 15, 2013 at the rate of 4.400% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or duly made available for payment. The interest so payable and punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date shall, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 1 or September 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Interest on the Notes shall be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. If the Interest Payment Date or Maturity date of the Notes, as applicable, is not a Business Day, then that interest or principal will be paid on the next succeeding Business Day and no further
interest will be paid in respect of the delay in such payment. Any such interest which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder hereof on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and may be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Company, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of the principal of and the interest on this Note shall be made at the designated office of the Trustee (as defined below) at Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, Corporate Trust Operations, 608 Second Avenue South, N9303-121, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479, Attn: Corporate Trust Operations, in such currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided, however, that at the option of the Company, interest may be paid by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register, provided, further, that payment to DTC or any successor depositary may be made by wire transfer to the account maintained with a bank in the United States designated by DTC or such successor depositary in writing.
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Notes"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of July 17, 2008 (herein called, together with all indentures supplemental thereto, the "Indenture") between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture, all indentures supplemental thereto and the Officers' Certificate dated September 13, 2012 (the "Officers' Certificate") reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited (subject to exceptions provided in the Indenture) to the aggregate principal amount specified in the Officers' Certificate establishing the terms of the Notes pursuant to the Indenture.
The Company may, at its option, redeem the Notes, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of: (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below), plus 25 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but excluding, the date of redemption.
Further, installments of interest on the Notes to be redeemed that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to a redemption date shall be payable on the applicable Interest Payment Date to the Holders thereof as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date.
 
For purposes of the optional redemption provisions of this Note, the following defined terms shall have the meanings specified:
"Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which commercial banking institutions in New York City or in the city where the Corporate Trust Office (as defined below) is located are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to be closed.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent (as defined below) as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations (as defined below) for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, (ii) if the Company obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
"Corporate Trust Office" means the principal office of the Trustee from which at any particular time, the Trustee administers the Indenture, which office is presently located at 230 Monroe Street, Suite 2900, Chicago, Illinois 60606, except that with respect to the presentation of Securities for payment or for registration of transfer or exchange and the location of the Securities Registrar such term means the office or agency of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate agency business shall be conducted.
"Primary Treasury Dealer" means a primary United States government securities dealer in the United States.
"Quotation Agent" means the Reference Treasury Dealer (as defined below) appointed by the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means (i) Goldman, Sachs & Co., and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their respective successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealers the Company selects.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Company, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Company by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
 
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to actual or interpolated maturity (on a day count basis) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
Notice of any redemption shall be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed.
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest shall cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected by the Trustee by a method the Trustee deems to be fair and appropriate, in accordance with applicable DTC procedures.
If a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined below) occurs with respect to the Notes, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem the Notes as described above, the Company shall make an offer (a "Change of Control Offer") to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes on the terms set forth herein. In a Change of Control Offer, the Company shall offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase (a "Change of Control Payment").
Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control (as defined below), but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice shall be mailed to each Holder and the Trustee, describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the applicable notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (a "Change of Control Payment Date"). The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the applicable Change of Control Payment Date.
On each Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
 
 
 
 
The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer. In addition, the Company shall not repurchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder, to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the Company shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes by virtue of any such conflict and compliance.
For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the following defined terms shall have the meanings specified:
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of the Company's subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person, other than the Company or one of its subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock (as defined below) or other Voting Stock into which the Company's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or the Voting Stock of such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors (as defined below); or (5) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction shall not be deemed to involve a Change of Control under clause (2) above if (i) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of a holding company and (ii)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no
 
person (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company. The term "person," as used in this definition, has the meaning given thereto in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
"Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event (as defined below).
"Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued; or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's (as defined below) and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P (as defined below), and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement Rating Agency or Rating Agencies (as defined below) selected by the Company.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and its successors.
"Rating Agencies" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
"Rating Event" means the rating on the Notes is lowered by both Rating Agencies and the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by both Rating Agencies, in any case on any day during the period (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) commencing upon the first public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or our intention to effect a Change of Control and ending 60 days following the consummation of such Change of Control.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
"Voting Stock" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as such term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
The Notes are not subject to any sinking fund.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Note or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Note, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the then-outstanding principal of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the right of the Holder of this Note, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of and, subject to certain qualifications in the Indenture, interest on this Note at the times herein and in the Indenture prescribed and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment unless the Holder of this Note shall have consented to the impairment of such right.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations set forth therein, the transfer of this Note may be registered in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the Office or Agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or by his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, shall be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Notes are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. Subject to certain limitations therein set forth in the Indenture and in this Note, the Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series in different authorized denominations, as requested by the Holders surrendering the same.
No service charge by the Company shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge and any other expenses payable in connection therewith, other than in certain cases provided in the Indenture.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
The Indenture contains provisions whereby (i) the Company may be discharged from its obligations with respect to the Notes (subject to certain exceptions) or (ii) the Company may be released from its obligations under specified covenants and agreements in the Indenture, in each case if the Company irrevocably deposits with the Trustee money or U.S. Government Obligations sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on all Notes of this series, and satisfies certain other conditions, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee under the Indenture by the manual signature of one of its authorized signatories, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefits under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated: September         , 2012
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: September         , 2012
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations.
 
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
 
(Please insert Assignee's legal name)
 
(Please insert Social Security or other identifying number of Assignee)
 
(Please print or typewrite name and address including postal zip code of Assignee)
the within Note of WALGREEN CO. and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint                                                               attorney to transfer the said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
Dated:
                                    
 
 
[NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within instrument in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever.]
The following increases or decreases in this global Security have been made:
 

Exhibit 5.1
Walgreen Co.
108 Wilmot Road
Deerfield, Illinois 60015
    
Re:
Walgreen Co. Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 13, 2012
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special counsel to Walgreen Co., an Illinois corporation (the ""), in connection with the sale to the several underwriters (the "") named in the Underwriting Agreement (as defined below) by the Company of $550,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's Floating Rate Notes due 2014, $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 1.000% Notes due 2015, $1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 1.800% Notes due 2017, $1,200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.100% Notes due September 15, 2022 and $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.400% Notes due 2042 (the "") pursuant to the terms of the Underwriting Agreement (the ""), dated September 10, 2012, between the Company and Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as representatives of the Underwriters. The Notes will be issued pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of July 17, 2008 (the "," and, together with the Underwriting Agreement and the Notes, the ""), between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "").
Company
Underwriters
Notes
Underwriting Agreement
Indenture
Transaction Documents
Trustee
In our capacity as special counsel to the Company, we have examined (i) the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-175649) filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") on July 18, 2011, under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), (ii) the base prospectus, dated July 18, 2011, as supplemented by the preliminary prospectus supplement, dated September 10, 2012, relating to the Notes, filed with the Commission on September 10, 2012, pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the 1933 Act, (iii) the free writing prospectus relating to the Notes, dated September 10, 2012, filed with the Commission on September 11, 2012, pursuant to Rule 433 under the 1933 Act, (iv) the final prospectus supplement, dated September 10, 2012, filed with the Commission on September 11, 2012, pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the 1933 Act, (v) an executed copy of the Underwriting Agreement, (vi) an executed copy of the Indenture, (vii) resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company relating to the issuance of the Notes, (viii) a copy of the global notes representing the Notes, (ix) a copy of the Articles of Incorporation of the Company, as amended through the date hereof, (x) a copy of the By-laws of the Company, (xi) an executed copy of the Officers' Certificate Pursuant to Sections 3.1 and 3.3 of the Indenture, dated September 13, 2012, establishing the terms of the Notes and (xii) such other corporate records, certificates and other documents as we have deemed necessary or appropriate for purposes of rendering this letter.
Commission
1933 Act
We have examined originals or copies certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction of such documents, corporate records, certificates of public officials and other instruments as we have deemed necessary or appropriate for the purposes of this letter. We have also conducted such investigations of fact and law as we have deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of this letter. In such examination, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to authentic original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies and the legal capacity of all individuals executing such documents. As to any facts material to this letter that we did not independently establish or verify, we have, with your consent, relied upon the statements, certificates and representations of officers and other representatives of the Company and of other parties to the Transaction Documents. We have also assumed the valid authorization, execution and delivery of the Transaction Documents by each party thereto (other than the Company), and we have assumed that each such other party (in the case of parties that are not natural persons) has been duly organized and is validly existing and in good standing under its jurisdiction of organization, that each such other party has the legal capacity, power and authority to perform its obligations thereunder and that the Indenture constitutes the valid and binding obligation of the Trustee, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms. We have also assumed that the execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Transaction Documents, except with respect to Relevant Laws (as defined below), do not violate any law, rule or regulation applicable to it; and do not result in any conflict with, or breach of, any agreement or document binding on it. Our opinions are subject to the effect of (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights or remedies of creditors generally, (ii) the application of general principles of equity (including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing, regardless of whether enforcement is considered in proceedings at law or in equity), and (iii) applicable law and public policy with respect to rights to indemnity and contribution. Furthermore, the manner in which any particular issue relating to the opinions would be treated in any actual court case would depend in part on facts and circumstances particular to the case and would also depend on how the court involved chose to exercise the wide discretionary authority generally available to it.
We are members of the Bar of the State of New York, and we have not considered, and we express no opinion as to, the laws of any jurisdiction other than the laws of the State of New York that a New York lawyer exercising customary professional diligence would reasonably be expected to recognize as being applicable to the Company, the Transaction Documents or the transactions governed by the Transaction Documents (the ""). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing definition of Relevant Laws, the term "Relevant Laws" does not include any law, rule or regulation that is applicable to the Company or the Transaction Documents or such transactions solely because such law, rule or regulation is part of a regulatory regime applicable to any party to any of the Transaction Documents or any of its affiliates due to the specific assets or business of such party or such affiliate.
Relevant Laws
Insofar as the opinions expressed herein relate to or are dependent upon matters governed by the laws of the State of Illinois, we have relied upon the opinion letter, dated September 13, 2012, of Thomas J. Sabatino, Jr., Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Company, which opinion letter is being filed as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated as of September 13, 2012.
Based upon the foregoing, and subject to the qualifications set forth in this letter, it is our opinion that, subject to the completion of the actions to be taken by the Company, the Trustee and the Underwriters prior to the sale of the Notes, the Notes, when duly executed, authenticated, issued, delivered and paid for in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and the Underwriting Agreement, will constitute the valid and legally binding obligations of the Company.
We hereby consent to the filing of a copy of this opinion as Exhibit 5.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated as of September 13, 2012, and to the use of our name in the prospectus forming a part of the Registration Statement under the caption "Legal Matters." In giving this consent, we do not thereby admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the 1933 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder. This opinion speaks as of its date, and we undertake no (and hereby disclaim any) obligation to update this opinion.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz

Exhibit 5.2
 
Walgreen Co.
108 Wilmot Road
Deerfield, Illinois 60015
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I am Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Walgreen Co., an Illinois corporation (the ""). I have acted as counsel to the Company in connection with the issuance and sale by the Company of $550,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's Floating Rate Notes due 2014, $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 1.000% Notes due 2015, $1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 1.800% Notes due 2017, $1,200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.100% Notes due 2022 and $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.400% Notes due 2042 (the "") pursuant to the terms of the Underwriting Agreement (the ""), dated September 10, 2012, between the Company and Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as Representatives of the several Underwriters (each as defined therein). The Notes will be issued pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of July 17, 2008 (the ""), between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee. The Notes have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which became effective on July 18, 2011 (File No. 333-175649), including a base prospectus dated July 18, 2011 (the "") and a prospectus supplement dated September 10, 2012 (the "," and together with the Base Prospectus, the "").
Company
Notes
Underwriting Agreement
Indenture
Base Prospectus
Prospectus Supplement
Prospectus
I or attorneys under my direction have reviewed the originals or copies certified or otherwise identified to my satisfaction of all such corporate records of the Company and such other instruments and other certificates of public officials, officers and representatives of the Company and such other persons, and I or attorneys under my direction have made such investigations of law, as I have deemed appropriate as a basis for the opinion expressed below.
In rendering the opinion expressed below, I have assumed the authenticity of all documents submitted to me or attorneys under my direction as originals and the conformity to the originals of all documents submitted to me or attorneys under my direction as copies. In addition, I have assumed and have not verified the accuracy as to factual matters of each
document I or attorneys under my direction have reviewed (including, without limitation, the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company in the Underwriting Agreement).
Based upon the foregoing, and subject to the limitations, qualifications, exceptions and assumptions set forth herein, it is my opinion that:
 
 
In rendering the foregoing opinion, I have assumed that to the extent any documents referred to in the foregoing opinion are governed by the law of a jurisdiction other than the State of Illinois, such documents would be enforced as written. I do not express, or purport to express, any opinion with respect to the law of any jurisdiction other than the State of Illinois. I assume no obligation to advise you or any other person, or to make any investigations, as to any legal developments or factual matters arising subsequent to the date hereof that might affect the statements expressed herein.
I hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of September 13, 2012, and to the reference to my name under the heading "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus. In giving my consent, I do not thereby admit that I am in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder. The opinions expressed herein are matters of professional judgment and are not a guarantee of result.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Thomas J. Sabatino, Jr.

Exhibit 23.3
Consent of Independent Auditors
To the Board of Alliance Boots GmbH:
We consent to the use of our report dated September 10, 2012, with respect to the Group statements of financial position of Alliance Boots GmbH as of March 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related Group statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended March 31, 2012, incorporated by reference in, and to the reference to our firm under the heading "Experts" in, Walgreen's preliminary prospectus supplement and prospectus supplement dated September 10, 2012 and filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b)(2) under the Securities Act of 1933.
/s/ KPMG Audit Plc
London, United Kingdom
September 10, 2012


