ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS INTRODUCTION The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Financial Statements and APS Financial Statements and the related Notes that appear in Item 8 of this report. OVERVIEW Pinnacle West owns all of the outstanding common stock of APS. APS is a vertically integrated electric utility that provides retail and wholesale electric service to most of the state of Arizona, with the major exceptions of about one half of the Phoenix metropolitan area, the Tucson metropolitan area and Mohave County in northwestern Arizona. APS has historically accounted for a substantial part of our revenues and earnings, and is expected to continue to do so. While customer growth in APS service territory has been an important driver of our revenues and earnings, it has significantly slowed, reflecting recessionary economic conditions both nationally and in Arizona. Customer growth averaged 3% a year for the three years 2006 through 2008. We currently expect customer growth and retail electricity sales growth (excluding the effects of weather variations) to average about 1% per year during 2009 through 2011. We currently project that our customer growth will begin to accelerate as the economy recovers. The near term economic conditions are reflected in the recent volatility and disruption of the credit markets, as discussed in detail under Liquidity and Capital Resources Pinnacle West Consolidated below. Despite these conditions, Pinnacle West and APS currently have ample borrowing capacity under their respective credit facilities and have been able to access these facilities, ensuring adequate liquidity for each company. Our cash flows and profitability are affected by the electricity rates APS may charge and the timely recovery of costs through those rates. APS retail rates are regulated by the ACC and its wholesale electric rates (primarily for transmission) are regulated by the FERC. APS capital expenditure requirements, which are discussed below under Liquidity and Capital Resources Pinnacle West Consolidated, are substantial because of increased costs related to environmental compliance and controls and system reliability, as well as continuing, though slowed, customer growth in APS service territory. APS needs timely recovery through rates of its capital and operating expenditures to maintain adequate financial health. See Factors Affecting Our Financial Outlook below. On March 24, 2008, APS filed a rate case with the ACC, which it updated on June 2, 2008, requesting, among other things, an increase in retail rates to help defray rising infrastructure costs, approval of an impact fee and approval of new conservation rates. See Note 3 for details regarding this rate case, including the ACCs approval of an interim base rate surcharge pending the outcome of the case. The 2007 and 2008 financial results of SunCor, our real estate subsidiary, reflect the weak real estate market and current economic conditions, which have adversely affected SunCors ability to access capital. SunCors net loss in 2008 included a $53 million (pre tax) real estate impairment charge. If conditions in the broader economy or the real estate markets worsen, or as a result of a change in SunCors strategy, we may be required to record additional impairments (see Note 23). In addition to SunCors Secured Revolver, under which approximately $120 million in borrowings were outstanding at December 31, 2008, SunCor had approximately $68 million of outstanding debt under other credit facilities that mature at various dates and also contain certain loan covenants. The majority of this indebtedness, except for the Secured Revolver, is due in 2009, and SunCor is in the process of renegotiating these facilities. If SunCor is unable to meet its financial covenants under the Secured Revolver or its other outstanding credit facilities, SunCor could be required to immediately repay its outstanding indebtedness under all of its credit facilities as a result of cross default provisions. Such a debt acceleration would have a material adverse impact on SunCors business and its financial position. The Company has not guaranteed any SunCor indebtedness. As a result, the Company does not believe that SunCors inability to meet its financial covenants under the Secured Revolver or its other outstanding credit facilities would have a material adverse impact on Pinnacle Wests cash flows or liquidity, although any resulting SunCor losses would be reflected in Pinnacle Wests consolidated financial statements. 46 Table of Contents Our other principal first tier subsidiaries, El Dorado and APSES, are not expected to have any material impact on our financial results, or to require any material amounts of capital, over the next three years. We continue to focus on solid operational performance in our electricity generation and delivery activities. In the delivery area, we focus on superior reliability and customer satisfaction. We plan to expand long term energy resources and our transmission and distribution systems to meet the electricity needs of our growing retail customer base and to sustain reliability. See Factors Affecting Our Financial Outlook below for a discussion of several factors that could affect our future financial results. PINNACLE WEST CONSOLIDATED EARNINGS CONTRIBUTION BY BUSINESS SEGMENT Pinnacle Wests two reportable business segments are: our regulated electricity segment, which consists of traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electric service to Native Load customers) and related activities and includes electricity generation, transmission and distribution; and our real estate segment, which consists of SunCors real estate development and investment activities. The following table presents income from continuing operations for our regulated electricity and real estate segments and reconciles those amounts to net income in total for the years ended 2008, 2007, and 2006 (dollars in millions): 2008 2007 2006 Regulated electricity segment $ 256 $ 274 $ 259 Real estate segment (a) (49 ) 14 50 All other (b) 7 11 7 Income from continuing operations 214 299 316 Income (loss) from discontinued operations net of tax: Real estate segment (c) 23 9 10 All other (b) 5 (1 ) 1 Net income $ 242 $ 307 $ 327 47 Table of Contents (a) SunCors net loss in 2008 included a $32 million after tax real estate impairment charge (see Note 23). (b) Includes activities related to marketing and trading, APSES, Silverhawk and El Dorado. Income from discontinued operations for 2008 is primarily related to the resolution of certain tax issues associated with the sale of Silverhawk in 2005. The 2007 loss is primarily related to an APSES project. None of these segments is a reportable segment. (c) Primarily relates to sales of commercial properties. PINNACLE WEST CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2008 Compared with 2007 Our consolidated net income decreased approximately $65 million, to $242 million in 2008 from $307 million in 2007. The major factors that increased (decreased) our net income for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared with the prior year are summarized in the following table (dollars in millions): 48 Table of Contents Increase (Decrease) Pretax After Tax Regulated electricity segment: Impacts of retail rate increase effective July 1, 2007 and transmission rate increases: Retail revenue increase primarily related to higher Base Fuel Rate $ 156 $ 95 Decreased deferred fuel and purchased power costs related to higher Base Fuel Rate (141 ) (86 ) Transmission rate increases (including related retail rates) 31 19 Lower mark to market valuations of fuel and purchased power contracts related to changes in market prices, net of related PSA deferrals (14 ) (9 ) Regulatory disallowance in 2007 14 8 Higher retail sales primarily due to customer growth, excluding weather effects, partially offset by lower average usage 21 13 Effects of weather on retail sales (43 ) (26 ) Operations and maintenance expense increases primarily due to: Customer service and other costs, including distribution system reliability (30 ) (18 ) Generation costs, including more planned maintenance (18 ) (11 ) Employee severance costs (9 ) (5 ) Higher depreciation and amortization primarily due to increased utility plant in service (18 ) (11 ) Income tax benefits related to prior years resolved in 2008 30 Income tax benefits related to prior years resolved in 2007 (13 ) Higher interest expense, net of capitalized financing costs, primarily due to higher rates on certain APS pollution control bonds and higher short term debt balances (15 ) (9 ) Miscellaneous items, net 1 5 Decrease in regulated electricity segment net income (65 ) (18 ) Lower real estate segment income from continuing operations primarily due to: Real estate impairment charge (Note 23) (53 ) (32 ) Lower land parcel sales resulting from the weak real estate market (40 ) (24 ) Lower sales of residential property resulting from the weak real estate market (4 ) (2 ) Higher other costs (7 ) (5 ) Lower marketing and trading contribution primarily due to lower sales volumes (16 ) (10 ) Other miscellaneous items, net 14 6 Decrease in income from continuing operations $ (171 ) (85 ) Increase in real estate segment income from discontinued operations primarily related to a 2008 commercial property sale 14 Increase in other income from discontinued operations primarily related to the resolution in 2008 of certain tax issues associated with the sale of Silverhawk in 2005 6 Decrease in net income $ (65 ) Regulated Electricity Segment Revenues Regulated electricity segment revenues were $209 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared with the prior year primarily because of: 49 Table of Contents a $156 million increase in retail revenues due to a rate increase effective July 1, 2007; a $38 million increase in revenues from Off System Sales due to higher prices and volumes; a $31 million increase due to transmission rate increases (including related retail rates); a $29 million increase in retail revenues primarily related to customer growth, excluding weather effects; a $26 million increase in revenues related to long term traditional wholesale contracts; a $14 million increase in renewable energy surcharges which are offset by operations and maintenance expense; a $63 million decrease in retail revenue due to the effects of weather; a $47 million decrease in retail revenues related to recovery of PSA deferrals, which had no earnings effect because of lower amortization of the same amount recorded as fuel and purchased power expense; and a $25 million net increase due to miscellaneous factors. Real Estate Segment Revenues Real estate segment revenues were $82 million lower for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared with the prior year primarily because of: a $62 million decrease primarily due to lower sales of land parcels as a result of the weak real estate market; a $14 million decrease primarily due to lower residential property sales as a result of the weak real estate market; and a $6 million net decrease due to miscellaneous factors. All Other Revenues All other revenues were $78 million lower for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared with the prior year primarily because of planned reductions of marketing and trading activities. 2007 Compared with 2006 Our consolidated net income decreased approximately $20 million, from $327 million for 2006 to $307 million for 2007. The major factors that increased (decreased) net income for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the prior year are summarized in the following table (dollars in millions): 50 Table of Contents Increase (Decrease) Pretax After Tax Regulated electricity segment: Higher retail sales primarily due to customer growth, excluding weather effects $ 46 $ 28 Effects of weather on retail sales 37 23 Impacts of retail rate increase effective July 1, 2007: Revenue increase related to higher Base Fuel Rate 185 113 Decreased deferred fuel and purchased power costs related to higher Base Fuel Rate (171 ) (104 ) Non fuel rate increase 6 4 Net changes in fuel and purchased power costs related to price: Higher fuel and purchased power costs related to increased commodity prices (121 ) (74 ) Increased deferred fuel and purchased power costs related to increased prices 115 70 Mark to market fuel and purchased power costs, net of related deferred fuel and purchased power costs 18 11 Regulatory disallowance (see Note 3) (14 ) (8 ) Operations and maintenance increases primarily due to: Increased generation costs, including increased maintenance and overhauls and Palo Verde performance improvement plan (25 ) (15 ) Customer service and other costs (21 ) (13 ) Higher depreciation and amortization primarily due to increased utility plant in service (12 ) (7 ) Lower other income, net of expense, primarily due to lower interest income as a result of lower investment balances and miscellaneous asset sales in prior year (15 ) (9 ) Income tax benefits resolved in 2007 related to prior years 13 Income tax credits resolved in 2006 related to prior years (14 ) Miscellaneous items, net 6 (3 ) Increase in regulated electricity segment net income 34 15 Lower real estate segment income from continuing operations primarily due to: Lower sales of residential property resulting from the continued slowdown in the western United States real estate markets (47 ) (29 ) Lower sales of land parcels (12 ) (7 ) Higher other costs (1 ) Higher marketing and trading contribution primarily due to higher mark to market gains resulting from changes in forward prices and higher unit margins 6 3 Other miscellaneous items, net (2 ) 1 Decrease in income from continuing operations $ (22 ) (17 ) Discontinued operations: Increased commercial property real estate sales (1 ) Other discontinued operations (2 ) Decrease in net income $ (20 ) 51 Table of Contents Regulated Electricity Segment Revenues Regulated electricity segment revenues were $283 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the prior year primarily because of: a $191 million increase in retail revenues due to a rate increase effective July 1, 2007; a $60 million increase in retail revenues primarily related to customer growth, excluding weather effects; a $50 million increase in retail revenues due to the effects of weather; a $3 million increase in revenues from Off System Sales due to higher prices and volumes; a $35 million decrease in retail revenues related to recovery of PSA deferrals, which had no earnings effect because of amortization of the same amount recorded as fuel and purchased power expense (see Note 3); and a $14 million net increase due to miscellaneous factors. Real Estate Segment Revenues Real estate segment revenues were $187 million lower for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the prior year primarily because of: a $167 million decrease in residential property sales due to the continued slowdown in western United States real estate markets; and a $20 million decrease primarily due to lower sales of land parcels. All Other Revenues Other revenues were $13 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the prior year primarily as a result of increased sales by APSES of energy related products and services. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Pinnacle West Consolidated Cash Flows The following table presents net cash provided by (used for) operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 (dollars in millions): 52 Table of Contents 2008 2007 2006 Net cash flow provided by operating activities $ 814 $ 658 $ 394 Net cash flow used for investing activities (815 ) (873 ) (569 ) Net cash flow provided by financing activities 51 185 108 Net Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 50 $ (30 ) $ (67 ) 2008 Compared with 2007 The increase of approximately $156 million in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to lower current income taxes; lower real estate investments resulting from the weak real estate market; and increased retail revenue related to higher Base Fuel Rates, partially offset by increased collateral and margin cash provided as a result of changes in commodity prices. The decrease of approximately $58 million in net cash used for investing activities is primarily due to a real estate commercial property sale in 2008; lower levels of capital expenditures (see table and discussion below); and increased contributions in aid of construction related to changes in 2008 in APS line extension policy (see Note 3), partially offset by lower cash proceeds from the net sales and purchases of investment securities. The decrease of approximately $134 million in net cash provided by financing activities is primarily due to the use of the proceeds from the sale of a real estate commercial property to pay down long term debt in 2008, partially offset by higher levels of short term debt borrowings. 2007 Compared with 2006 The increase of approximately $264 million in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to a decrease in 2007 in the amount of cash collateral and margin cash returned to counterparties as a result of changes in commodity prices. The increase of approximately $304 million in net cash used for investing activities is primarily due to the proceeds of $208 million received in 2006 from the 2005 sale of Silverhawk and an increase in cash used for capital expenditures and capitalized interest (see table and discussion below), partially offset by higher cash proceeds from the net sales and purchases of investments. The increase of approximately $77 million in net cash provided by financing activities is primarily due to higher levels of short term borrowings, partially offset by a decrease in net new long term debt (issuances net of redemptions and refinancing). Liquidity Capital Expenditure Requirements The following table summarizes the actual capital expenditures for 2006, 2007 and 2008 and estimated capital expenditures, net of contributions in aid of construction, for the next three years: 53 Table of Contents CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (dollars in millions) Actual Estimated 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 APS Distribution $ 357 $ 372 $ 340 $ 276 $ 266 $ 356 Generation (a) 176 353 310 288 274 319 Transmission 113 138 163 275 99 185 Other (b) 16 37 43 44 37 50 Subtotal 662 900 856 883 676 910 SunCor (c) 201 161 41 14 70 175 Other 7 3 7 7 3 3 Total $ 870 $ 1,064 $ 904 $ 904 $ 749 $ 1,088 (a) Generation includes nuclear fuel expenditures of approximately $60 million to $80 million per year for 2009, 2010 and 2011. (b) Primarily information systems and facilities projects. (c) Consists primarily of capital expenditures for residential, land development and retail and office building construction reflected in Real estate investments and Capital expenditures on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Distribution and transmission capital expenditures are comprised of infrastructure additions and upgrades, capital replacements, new customer construction and related information systems and facility costs. Examples of the types of projects included in the forecast include power lines, substations, line extensions to new residential and commercial developments and upgrades to customer information systems, partially offset by contributions in aid of construction in accordance with APS line extension policy. Generation capital expenditures are comprised of various improvements to APS existing fossil and nuclear plants. Examples of the types of projects included in this category are additions, upgrades and capital replacements of various power plant equipment such as turbines, boilers and environmental equipment. Environmental expenditures differ for each of the years 2009, 2010 and 2011, with the lowest year estimated at approximately $25 million, and the highest year estimated at approximately $80 million. We are also monitoring the status of certain environmental matters, which, depending on their final outcome, could require modification to our environmental expenditures. (See Business of Arizona Public Service Company Environmental Matters EPA Environmental Regulation Regional Haze Rules and Environmental Matters EPA Environmental Regulation Mercury in Item 1.) In early 2008, we announced and began implementing a cost reduction effort that included the elimination of approximately $200 million of capital expenditures for the years 2008 2012. These capital expenditure reductions are reflected in the estimates provided above. Due primarily to our reduced customer growth outlook as well as the deferral of upgrades and other capital projects, we have identified additional capital expenditure reductions of over $500 million at APS (net of the 54 Table of Contents change in amounts collected for projected line extensions) over the years 2009 2011. These reductions are across all areas distribution, generation, transmission and general plant, and are reflected in the estimates provided above. (See Pinnacle West Consolidated Factors Affecting Our Financial Outlook Customer and Sales Growth below for additional information on our growth outlook.) Capital expenditures will be funded with internally generated cash and or external financings, which may include issuances of long term debt and Pinnacle West common stock. Pinnacle West (Parent Company) Our primary cash needs are for dividends to our shareholders and principal and interest payments on our long term debt. The level of our common stock dividends and future dividend growth will be dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, payout ratio trends, free cash flow and financial market conditions. On January 21, 2009, the Pinnacle West Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share of common stock, payable on March 2, 2009, to shareholders of record on February 2, 2009. Our primary sources of cash are dividends from APS, external debt and equity financings and cash distributions from our other subsidiaries, primarily SunCor. For the years 2006 through 2008, total distributions from APS were $510 million and total distributions received from SunCor were $15 million. For 2008, cash distributions from APS were $170 million and there were no distributions from SunCor. An existing ACC order requires APS to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and prohibits APS from paying common stock dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. As defined in the ACC order, the common equity ratio is common equity divided by the sum of common equity and long term debt, including current maturities of long term debt. At December 31, 2008, APS common equity ratio, as defined, was approximately 54%. The credit and liquidity markets experienced significant stress beginning the week of September 15, 2008. While Pinnacle Wests and APS ability to issue commercial paper has been negatively impacted by the market stress, they have both been able to access existing credit facilities, ensuring adequate liquidity. Cash on hand is being invested in money market funds consisting of U.S. Treasury and government agency securities and repurchase agreements collateralized fully by U.S. Treasury and government agency securities. At December 31, 2008, Pinnacle Wests outstanding long term debt, including current maturities, was $175 million. Pinnacle West has a $300 million revolving credit facility that terminates in December 2010. Credit commitments totaling approximately $17 million from Lehman Brothers are no longer available due to its September 2008 bankruptcy filing. The remaining $283 million revolver is available to support the issuance of up to $250 million in commercial paper (see discussion above) or to be used as bank borrowings, including issuances of letters of credit of up to $94 million. At December 31, 2008, Pinnacle West had outstanding $144 million of borrowings under its revolving credit facility and approximately $7 million of letters of credit. Pinnacle West had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2008. In general, the Company and APS have been unable to access the commercial paper markets since September 2008. At December 31, 2008, Pinnacle West had remaining capacity available 55 Table of Contents under its revolver of approximately $132 million and had cash and investments of approximately $6 million. Pinnacle West sponsors a qualified defined benefit and account balance pension plan and a non qualified supplemental excess benefit retirement plan for the employees of Pinnacle West and our subsidiaries. IRS regulations require us to contribute a minimum amount to the qualified plan. We contribute at least the minimum amount required under IRS regulations, but no more than the maximum tax deductible amount. The minimum required funding takes into consideration the value of plan assets and our pension obligation. The assets in the plan are comprised of fixed income, equity and short term investments. Future year contribution amounts are dependent on plan asset performance and plan actuarial assumptions. We contributed $35 million to our pension plan in 2008. On a cash funded basis, which is based on Internal Revenue Code regulations, our preliminary estimate of the qualified plans funded status (market value of assets to liabilities) as of January 1, 2009 is 98.6%. The plans IRS cash funded status was 94.3% as of January 1, 2008. Most of the increase from the prior year was due to gains in the long duration bonds and interest rate swaps that we utilized in 2008 to better match the interest rate sensitivity of the plans assets to that of the plans liabilities. The required minimum contribution to our pension plan is estimated to be approximately $36 million in 2009 and approximately $25 million in 2010. The expected contribution to our other postretirement benefit plans in 2009 is estimated to be approximately $15 million. APS and other subsidiaries fund their share of the contributions. APS share is approximately 96% of both plans. See Note 3 for information regarding Pinnacle Wests approval from the ACC regarding a potential equity infusion into APS of up to $400 million. In May 2007, Pinnacle West infused approximately $40 million of equity into APS, consisting of proceeds of stock issuances in 2006 under Pinnacle Wests Investors Advantage Plan (direct stock purchase and dividend reinvestment plan) and employee stock plans. APS APS capital requirements consist primarily of capital expenditures and mandatory redemptions of long term debt. APS pays for its capital requirements with cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, equity infusions from Pinnacle West and external financings. APS has historically paid its dividends to Pinnacle West with cash from operations. See Pinnacle West (Parent Company) above for a discussion of the common equity ratio that APS must maintain in order to pay dividends to Pinnacle West. APS outstanding long term debt, including current maturities, was approximately $2.9 billion at December 31, 2008. APS has two committed revolving credit facilities totaling $900 million, of which $400 million terminates in December 2010 and $500 million terminates in September 2011. Credit commitments totaling about $34 million from Lehman Brothers are no longer available due to its September 2008 bankruptcy filing. The remaining $866 million is available either to support the issuance of up to $250 million in commercial paper or to be used for bank borrowings, including issuances of letters of credit up to $583 million. At December 31, 2008, APS had borrowings of approximately $522 million and no letters of credit under its revolving lines of credit. APS had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2008. In general, the Company and APS have been unable to access the commercial paper markets since September 2008. At December 31, 2008, APS had remaining capacity available under its revolvers of $344 million and had cash and investments of approximately $72 million. 56 Table of Contents The interest rates on eleven issues of APS pollution control bonds, in the aggregate amount of approximately $343 million, are reset every seven days through auction processes. These bonds are supported by bond insurance policies provided by Ambac, and the interest rates on the bonds can be directly affected by the rating of the bond insurer. Certain bond insurers, including Ambac, have had downgrades of their credit ratings. Downgrades of bond insurers result in downgrades of the insured bonds, which increases the possibility of a failed auction and results in higher interest rates during the failed auction periods. When auctions of APS bonds fail, the APS bondholders receive the maximum 14% annual interest rate for the week of the failed auction. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, we had ninety nine failed auctions, which represented about 17% of all of our auctions. The average interest rate at December 31, 2008 on the auction rate securities was 12.4%. Bond auctions continued to fail through mid January; however, since that time, we have had only one failure. The average interest rate at February 18, 2009 on the auction rate securities was 5.7%. We continue to closely monitor this market and, if market and business conditions allow, we are planning on refunding and reissuing these bonds during 2009. We do not expect, however, that our auction rate interest exposure will have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows or liquidity. On September 11, 2008, APS repurchased at par two series of pollution control bonds that had no credit enhancements. The repurchase included $7 million of its 1996 Series A Coconino County Pollution Control Bonds and $20 million of its 1999 Series A Coconino County Pollution Control Bonds. APS borrowed funds under its revolving lines of credit to re purchase the bonds as permitted under the bond indenture. APS intends to keep the $27 million outstanding until we complete our planned refunding and reissuance of these bonds, if market and business conditions allow, in 2009. Although provisions in APS articles of incorporation and ACC financing orders establish maximum amounts of preferred stock and debt that APS may issue, APS does not expect any of these provisions to limit its ability to meet its capital requirements. On October 30, 2007, the ACC issued a financing order in which it approved APS request, subject to specified parameters and procedures, to increase (a) APS short term debt authorization from 7% of APS capitalization to (i) 7% of APS capitalization plus (ii) $500 million (which is required to be used for purchases of natural gas and power) and (b) APS long term debt authorization from approximately $3.2 billion to $4.2 billion in light of the projected growth of APS and its customer base and the resulting projected financing needs. This financing order expires December 31, 2012; however, all debt previously authorized and outstanding on December 31, 2012 will remain authorized and valid obligations of APS. Other Financing Matters See Note 3 for information regarding the PSA approved by the ACC. Although APS defers actual retail fuel and purchased power costs on a current basis, APS recovery of the deferrals from its ratepayers is subject to annual and, if necessary, periodic PSA adjustments. See Note S 5 for information regarding an ACC order permitting Pinnacle West to infuse up to $400 million of equity into APS, on or before December 31, 2009, if Pinnacle West deems it appropriate to do so to strengthen or maintain APS financial integrity. See Cash Flow Hedges in Note 18 for information related to the change in our margin account. Other Subsidiaries SunCor The weak real estate market and current economic conditions have adversely affected SunCors financial results and its ability to access capital. During the past three years, 57 Table of Contents SunCor funded its cash requirements with cash from operations and its own external financings. SunCors capital needs consist primarily of capital expenditures for land development and retail and office building construction. See the capital expenditures table above for actual capital expenditures during 2008 and projected capital expenditures for the next three years. SunCors principal loan facility, the Secured Revolver, is secured primarily by an interest in land, commercial properties, land contracts and homes under construction. On February 19, 2009, SunCor and the Secured Revolver lenders extended the maturity date of the Secured Revolver to January 30, 2010 (classified as current maturities of long term debt at December 31, 2008). SunCor is required to repay amounts under the Secured Facility in order to reduce the lenders commitments to a balance of $100 million by December 31, 2009. The Secured Revolver requires compliance with certain loan covenants pertaining to debt to net worth, debt service, liquidity, cash flow coverage and restrictions on debt. In addition to the Secured Revolver, at December 31, 2008, SunCor had approximately $68 million of outstanding debt under other credit facilities that mature at various dates and also contain certain loan covenants. The majority of this indebtedness is due in 2009, and SunCor is in the process of renegotiating these facilities. If SunCor is unable to meet its financial covenants under the Secured Revolver or its other outstanding credit facilities, SunCor could be required to immediately repay its outstanding indebtedness under all of its credit facilities as a result of cross default provisions. Such a debt acceleration would have a material adverse impact on SunCors business and its financial position. The Company has not guaranteed any SunCor indebtedness. As a result, the Company does not believe that SunCors inability to meet its financial covenants under the Secured Revolver or its other outstanding credit facilities would have a material adverse impact on Pinnacle Wests cash flows or liquidity, although any resulting SunCor losses would be reflected in Pinnacle Wests consolidated financial statements. SunCor entered into a secured construction loan on April 13, 2007, in the amount of $60 million which was subsequently repaid in June 2008. On July 31, 2007, SunCor borrowed $12 million under a new secured construction loan. The loan matures on July 31, 2009, and may be extended annually up to two years. SunCors total outstanding debt was approximately $188 million as of December 31, 2008, including $120 million of debt classified as current maturities of long term debt under revolving lines of credit totaling $150 million. SunCors long term debt, including current maturities, was $183 million and total short term debt was $5 million at December 31, 2008. See Notes 5 and 6. SunCor had cash and investments of approximately $27 million at December 31, 2008. El Dorado El Dorado expects minimal capital requirements over the next three years and intends to focus on prudently realizing the value of its existing investments. APSES APSES expects minimal capital expenditures over the next three years. Debt Provisions Pinnacle Wests and APS debt covenants related to their respective bank financing arrangements include debt to capitalization ratios. Certain of APS bank financing arrangements also include an interest coverage test. Pinnacle West and APS comply with these covenants and each anticipates it will continue to meet these and other significant covenant requirements. For both Pinnacle West and APS, these covenants require that the ratio of consolidated debt to total 58 Table of Contents consolidated capitalization not exceed 65%. At December 31, 2008, the ratio was approximately 51% for Pinnacle West and 49% for APS. The provisions regarding interest coverage require minimum cash coverage of two times. The interest coverage was approximately 4.5 times under APS bank financing agreements as of December 31, 2008. Failure to comply with such covenant levels would result in an event of default which, generally speaking, would require the immediate repayment of the debt subject to the covenants and could cross default other debt. See further discussion of cross default provisions below. Neither Pinnacle Wests nor APS financing agreements contain rating triggers that would result in an acceleration of the required interest and principal payments in the event of a rating downgrade. However, our bank financial agreements contain a pricing grid in which the interest costs we pay are determined by our current credit ratings. All of Pinnacle Wests loan agreements contain cross default provisions that would result in defaults and the potential acceleration of payment under these loan agreements if Pinnacle West or APS were to default under certain other material agreements. All of APS bank agreements contain cross default provisions that would result in defaults and the potential acceleration of payment under these bank agreements if APS were to default under certain other material agreements. Pinnacle West and APS do not have a material adverse change restriction for revolver borrowings. See Note 6 for further discussions. Credit Ratings The ratings of securities of Pinnacle West and APS as of February 18, 2009 are shown below. The ratings reflect the respective views of the rating agencies, from which an explanation of the significance of their ratings may be obtained. There is no assurance that these ratings will continue for any given period of time. The ratings may be revised or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies if, in their respective judgments, circumstances so warrant. Any downward revision or withdrawal may adversely affect the market price of Pinnacle Wests or APS securities and serve to increase the cost of and limit access to capital. It may also require substantial additional collateral related to certain derivative instruments, natural gas transportation, fuel supply, and other energy related contracts. Moodys Standard Poors Fitch Pinnacle West Senior unsecured (a) Baa3 (P) BB (prelim) N/A Commercial paper P 3 A 3 F3 Outlook Stable Stable Negative APS Senior unsecured Baa2 BBB BBB Secured lease obligation bonds Baa2 BBB BBB Commercial paper P 2 A 3 F3 Outlook Stable Stable Stable 59 Table of Contents (a) Pinnacle West has a shelf registration under SEC Rule 415. Pinnacle West currently has no outstanding, rated senior unsecured securities. However, Moodys assigned a provisional (P) rating and Standard Poors assigned a preliminary (prelim) rating to the senior unsecured securities that can be issued under such shelf registration. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In 1986, APS entered into agreements with three separate VIE lessors in order to sell and lease back interests in Palo Verde Unit 2. The leases are accounted for as operating leases in accordance with GAAP. We are not the primary beneficiary of the Palo Verde VIEs and, accordingly, do not consolidate them (see Note 9). APS is exposed to losses under the Palo Verde sale leaseback agreements upon the occurrence of certain events that APS does not consider to be reasonably likely to occur. Under certain circumstances (for example, the NRC issuing specified violation orders with respect to Palo Verde or the occurrence of specified nuclear events), APS would be required to assume the debt associated with the transactions, make specified payments to the equity participants, and take title to the leased Unit 2 interests, which, if appropriate, may be required to be written down in value. If such an event had occurred as of December 31, 2008, APS would have been required to assume approximately $174 million of debt and pay the equity participants approximately $162 million. Guarantees and Letters of Credit We have issued parental guarantees and letters of credit and obtained surety bonds on behalf of our subsidiaries. Our parental guarantees for Pinnacle West Marketing Trading relate to commodity energy products. As required by Arizona law, Pinnacle West has also obtained a $10 million bond on behalf of APS in connection with the interim base rate surcharge approved by the ACC in December 2008. See 2008 General Rate Case Interim Rate Surcharge in Note 3. Our credit support instruments enabled APSES to offer energy related products and commodity energy. Non performance or non payment under the original contract by our subsidiaries would require us to perform under the guarantee or surety bond. No liability is currently recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to Pinnacle Wests current outstanding guarantees on behalf of our subsidiaries. At December 31, 2008, we had no guarantees that were in default. Our guarantees have no recourse or collateral provisions to allow us to recover amounts paid under the guarantees. We generally agree to indemnification provisions related to liabilities arising from or related to certain of our agreements, with limited exceptions depending on the particular agreement. See Note 21 for additional information regarding guarantees and letters of credit. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes Pinnacle Wests consolidated contractual requirements as of December 31, 2008 (dollars in millions): 60 Table of Contents 2010 2012 2009 2011 2013 Thereafter Total Long term debt payments, including interest: (a) APS $ 182 $ 957 $ 646 $ 3,549 $ 5,334 SunCor 178 4 2 184 Pinnacle West 10 187 197 Total long term debt payments, including interest 370 1,148 648 3,549 5,715 Short term debt payments, including interest (b) 672 672 Purchased power and fuel commitments (c) 449 651 777 6,053 7,930 Operating lease payments 82 147 132 135 496 Nuclear decommissioning funding requirements 22 49 49 185 305 Purchase obligations (d) 69 76 33 172 350 Minimum pension funding requirement (e) 36 25 61 Total contractual commitments $ 1,700 $ 2,096 $ 1,639 $ 10,094 $ 15,529 (a) The long term debt matures at various dates through 2036 and bears interest principally at fixed rates. Interest on variable rate long term debt is determined by using average rates at December 31, 2008 (see Note 6). (b) The short term debt is primarily related to bank borrowings at Pinnacle West, APS and SunCor under their respective revolving lines of credit (see Note 5). (c) Our purchased power and fuel commitments include purchases of coal, electricity, natural gas, renewable energy and nuclear fuel (see Note 11). (d) These contractual obligations include commitments for capital expenditures and other obligations. (e) Future pension contributions are not determinable for plan years 2010 and beyond. This table excludes $69 million in unrecognized tax benefits because the timing of the future cash outflows in uncertain. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES In preparing the financial statements in accordance with GAAP, management must often make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements and during the reporting period. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and actual results could differ from those estimates. We consider the following accounting policies to be our most critical because of the uncertainties, judgments and complexities of the underlying accounting standards and operations involved. 61 Table of Contents Regulatory Accounting Regulatory accounting allows for the actions of regulators, such as the ACC and the FERC, to be reflected in our financial statements. Their actions may cause us to capitalize costs that would otherwise be included as an expense in the current period by unregulated companies. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the assets would be written off as a charge in current period earnings. A major component of our regulatory assets is the retail fuel and power costs deferred under the PSA. APS defers for future rate recovery 90% of the difference between actual retail fuel and power costs and the amount of such costs currently included in base rates. We had $795 million, including $8 million related to the PSA, of regulatory assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008. Also included in the balance of regulatory assets at December 31, 2008 is a regulatory asset of $473 million in accordance with SFAS No. 158 for pension and other postretirement benefits. This regulatory asset represents the future recovery of these costs through retail rates as these amounts are charged to earnings. If these costs are disallowed by the ACC, this regulatory asset would be charged to OCI and result in lower future earnings. In addition, we had $588 million of regulatory liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008, which primarily are related to removal costs. See Notes 1 and 3 for more information. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Accounting Changes in our actuarial assumptions used in calculating our pension and other postretirement benefit liability and expense can have a significant impact on our earnings and financial position. The most relevant actuarial assumptions are the discount rate used to measure our liability and net periodic cost, the expected long term rate of return on plan assets used to estimate earnings on invested funds over the long term, and the assumed healthcare cost trend rates. We review these assumptions on an annual basis and adjust them as necessary. The following chart reflects the sensitivities that a change in certain actuarial assumptions would have had on the December 31, 2008 reported pension liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and our 2008 reported pension expense, after consideration of amounts capitalized or billed to electric plant participants, on Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Statements of Income (dollars in millions): 62 Table of Contents Increase (Decrease) Impact on Impact on Pension Pension Actuarial Assumption (a) Liability Expense Discount rate: Increase 1% $ (241 ) $ (8 ) Decrease 1% 277 14 Expected long term rate of return on plan assets: Increase 1% (7 ) Decrease 1% 7 (a) Each fluctuation assumes that the other assumptions of the calculation are held constant while the rates are changed by one percentage point. The following chart reflects the sensitivities that a change in certain actuarial assumptions would have had on the December 31, 2008 reported other postretirement benefit obligation on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and our 2008 reported other postretirement benefit expense, after consideration of amounts capitalized or billed to electric plant participants, on Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Statements of Income (dollars in millions): Increase (Decrease) Impact on Other Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Postretirement Actuarial Assumption (a) Obligation Benefit Expense Discount rate: Increase 1% $ (90 ) $ (5 ) Decrease 1% 104 5 Health care cost trend rate (b): Increase 1% 103 9 Decrease 1% (83 ) (7 ) Expected long term rate of return on plan assets pretax: Increase 1% (2 ) Decrease 1% 2 (a) Each fluctuation assumes that the other assumptions of the calculation are held constant while the rates are changed by one percentage point. (b) This assumes a 1% change in the initial and ultimate health care cost trend rate. See Note 8 for further details about our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Derivative Accounting Derivative accounting requires evaluation of rules that are complex and subject to varying interpretations. Our evaluation of these rules, as they apply to our contracts, determines whether we 63 Table of Contents use accrual accounting (for contracts designated as normal) or fair value (mark to market) accounting. Mark to market accounting requires that changes in the fair value are recognized periodically in income unless certain hedge criteria are met. For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognized in common stock equity (as a component of other comprehensive income (loss)). See Market Risks Commodity Price Risk below for quantitative analysis. See Fair Value Measurements below for additional information on valuation. See Note 1 for discussion on accounting policies and Note 18 for a further discussion on derivative and energy trading accounting. Fair Value Measurements We apply fair value measurements to derivative instruments, nuclear decommissioning trusts and cash equivalents. We adopted SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, for our financial assets and liabilities on January 1, 2008. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. SFAS No. 157 establishes criteria to be considered when measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. In accordance with SFAS No. 157 we use inputs, or assumptions that market participants would use, to determine fair market value, and the significance of a particular input determines how the instrument is classified in the fair value hierarchy. We utilize valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The determination of fair value sometimes requires subjective and complex judgment. Our assessment of the inputs and the significance of a particular input to fair value measurement may affect the valuation of the instruments and their placement within the fair value hierarchy. Actual results could differ from our estimates of fair value. See Note 14 for further fair value measurement discussion, Note 1 for discussion on accounting policies and Note 18 for a further discussion on derivative and energy trading accounting. Our nuclear decommissioning trusts invest in fixed income securities and equity securities. The fair values of these securities are based on observable inputs for identical or similar assets. See Note 12 for further discussion of our nuclear decommissioning trusts. Real Estate Investment Impairments We had real estate investments of $415 million and home inventory of $51 million on our consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2008. We assess impairment of these assets in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. For purposes of evaluating impairment, we classify our real estate assets, such as land under development, land held for future development, and commercial property, as held and used. When events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of real estate assets considered held and used may not be recoverable, we compare the undiscounted cash flows that we estimate will be generated by each asset to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount exceeds the undiscounted cash flows, we adjust the asset to fair value and recognize an impairment charge. The adjusted value becomes the new book value (carrying amount) for held and used assets. We may have real estate assets classified as held and used with fair values that are lower than their carrying amounts, but are not deemed to be impaired because the undiscounted cash flows exceed the carrying amounts. Real estate home inventory is considered to be held for sale for the purposes of evaluating impairment in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 144. Home inventories are reported at 64 Table of Contents the lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. Fair value less cost to sell is evaluated each period to determine if it has changed. Losses (and gains not to exceed any cumulative loss previously recognized) are reported as adjustments to the carrying amount. We determine fair value for our real estate assets primarily based on the future cash flows that we estimate will be generated by each asset discounted for market risk. Our impairment assessments and fair value determinations require significant judgment regarding key assumptions such as future sales prices, future construction and land development costs, future sales timing, and discount rates. The assumptions are specific to each project and may vary among projects. The discount rates we used to determine fair values at December 31, 2008 ranged from 17% to 27%. Due to the judgment and assumptions applied in the estimation process, with regard to impairments, it is possible that actual results could differ from those estimates. If conditions in the broader economy or the real estate markets worsen, or as a result of a change in SunCors strategy, we may be required to record additional impairments. OTHER ACCOUNTING MATTERS See Note 14 for a discussion of SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, which we adopted effective January 1, 2008, and the following related accounting guidance: FASB Staff Position, No. 157 2, Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157 FASB Staff Position, No. 157 3, Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active See Notes 18 and S 3 for discussions of FASB Staff Position No. FIN 39 1, Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39, Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts (FIN 39 1), which we adopted January 1, 2008. SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, was effective for us on January 1, 2008. This guidance provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value. We did not elect the fair value option for any of our financial assets or liabilities. Therefore, SFAS No. 159 did not have an impact on our financial statements. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. This guidance requires enhanced disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities. The Statement is effective for us on January 1, 2009. It did not have a material impact on our financial statements. In December 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. 132(R) 1, Employers Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets. This guidance requires enhanced employer disclosures about plan assets of a defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan. The guidance is effective for us on December 31, 2009. We do not expect it to have a material impact on our financial statements. See Note 4 for a discussion of FIN 48 on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, which was adopted January 1, 2007. 65 Table of Contents FACTORS AFFECTING OUR FINANCIAL OUTLOOK Factors Affecting Operating Revenues, Fuel and Purchased Power Costs General Electric operating revenues are derived from sales of electricity in regulated retail markets in Arizona and from competitive retail and wholesale power markets in the western United States. For the years 2006 through 2008, retail electric revenues comprised approximately 91% of our total electric operating revenues. Our electric operating revenues are affected by electricity sales volumes related to customer growth, variations in weather from period to period, customer mix, average usage per customer, electricity rates and tariffs and the recovery of PSA deferrals. Off System Sales of excess generation output, purchased power and natural gas are included in regulated electricity segment revenues and related fuel and purchased power because they are credited to APS retail customers through the PSA. These revenue transactions are affected by the availability of excess economic generation or other energy resources and wholesale market conditions, including demand and prices. Competitive retail sales of energy and energy related products and services are made by APSES in certain western states that have opened to competition. Rate Proceedings Our cash flows and profitability are affected by the rates APS may charge and the timely recovery of costs through those rates. APS retail rates are regulated by the ACC and its wholesale electric rates (primarily for transmission) are regulated by the FERC. APS capital expenditure requirements, which are discussed below under Liquidity and Capital Resources Pinnacle West Consolidated, are substantial because of environmental compliance and controls, system reliability, and continuing, though slowed, customer growth in APS service territory. APS needs timely recovery through rates of its capital and operating expenditures to maintain adequate financial health. On March 24, 2008, APS filed a rate case with the ACC, which it updated on June 2, 2008, requesting, among other things, an increase in retail rates to help defray rising infrastructure costs, approval of an impact fee and approval of new conservation rates. See Note 3 for details regarding this rate case, including the ACCs approval of an interim base rate surcharge pending the outcome of the case. Fuel and Purchased Power Costs Fuel and purchased power costs included on our Consolidated Statements of Income are impacted by our electricity sales volumes, existing contracts for purchased power and generation fuel, our power plant performance, transmission availability or constraints, prevailing market prices, new generating plants being placed in service in our market areas, our hedging program for managing such costs and, since April 1, 2005, PSA deferrals and the amortization thereof. See Note 3 for information regarding the PSA. APS recovery of PSA deferrals from its ratepayers is subject to annual and, if necessary, periodic PSA adjustments. Customer and Sales Growth The customer and sales growth referred to in this paragraph apply to Native Load customers and sales to them. Customer growth in APS service territory was 1.4% during 2008. Customer growth averaged 3% a year for the three years 2006 through 2008. We currently expect customer growth to decline, averaging about 1% per year for 2009 through 2011 due to factors reflecting the economic conditions both nationally and in Arizona. For the three years 2006 through 2008, APS actual retail electricity sales in kilowatt hours grew at an average annual rate of 2.9%; adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations, such retail sales growth averaged 2.9% a year. We currently estimate that total retail electricity sales in kilowatt hours will grow 1% on average per year during 2009 through 2011, excluding the effects of weather variations. We currently expect our retail sales growth in 2009 to be below average because of potential effects on customer usage from the economic conditions mentioned above and retail rate increases (see Note 3). 66 Table of Contents Actual sales growth, excluding weather related variations, may differ from our projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth, usage patterns and responses to retail price changes. Our experience indicates that a reasonable range of variation in our kilowatt hour sales projection attributable to such economic factors under normal business conditions can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of up to $10 million. Weather In forecasting retail sales growth, we assume normal weather patterns based on historical data. Historical extreme weather variations have resulted in annual variations in net income in excess of $20 million. However, our experience indicates that the more typical variations from normal weather can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of up to $10 million. Wholesale Market Our marketing and trading activities focus primarily on managing APS risks relating to fuel and purchased power costs in connection with its costs of serving Native Load customer demand. Our marketing and trading activities include, subject to specified parameters, marketing, hedging and trading in electricity and fuels. See Formula Transmission Tariff in Note 3 for information regarding APS recent filing with the FERC requesting a change to the formula rate. Other Factors Affecting Financial Results Operations and Maintenance Expenses Operations and maintenance expenses are impacted by growth, power plant operations, maintenance of utility plant (including generation, transmission, and distribution facilities), inflation, outages, higher trending pension and other postretirement benefit costs and other factors. Depreciation and Amortization Expenses Depreciation and amortization expenses are impacted by net additions to utility plant and other property (such as new generation, transmission, and distribution facilities), and changes in depreciation and amortization rates. See Capital Expenditures above for information regarding planned additions to our facilities. Property Taxes Taxes other than income taxes consist primarily of property taxes, which are affected by the value of property in service and under construction, assessment ratios, and tax rates. The average property tax rate for APS, which currently owns the majority of our property, was 7.8% of the assessed value for 2008, 8.3% of the assessed value for 2007 and 8.9% of assessed value for 2006. We expect property taxes to increase as we add new utility plant (including new generation, transmission and distribution facilities) and as we improve our existing facilities. See Capital Expenditures above for information regarding planned additions to our facilities. Interest Expense Interest expense is affected by the amount of debt outstanding and the interest rates on that debt. (See Note 6.) The primary factors affecting borrowing levels are expected to be our capital expenditures, long term debt maturities, and internally generated cash flow. Capitalized interest offsets a portion of interest expense while capital projects are under construction. We stop accruing capitalized interest on a project when it is placed in commercial operation. Climate Change Recent concern over climate change could have a significant impact on our capital expenditures and operating costs in the form of taxes, emissions allowances or required equipment upgrades. The timing and type of compliance measures and related costs are impacted by current and future regulatory and legislative actions, which we are closely monitoring. See Business of Arizona Public Service Company Climate Change in Item 1 for more information regarding climate change initiatives. 67 Table of Contents Retail Competition Although some very limited retail competition existed in Arizona in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail electric service providers providing unbundled energy or other utility services to APS customers. We cannot predict when, and the extent to which, additional electric service providers will re enter APS service territory. Subsidiaries SunCors net loss was approximately $26 million in 2008. SunCors net loss in 2008 included a $53 million (pre tax) real estate impairment charge. SunCors net income was approximately $24 million in 2007 and $61 million in 2006. See Note 23 for further discussion. This estimate reflects continuation of the slowdown in the western United States real estate markets. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Other Subsidiaries SunCor and Note 6 for a discussion of SunCors long term debt, liquidity, and capital requirements. The historical results of APSES and El Dorado are not indicative of future performance. General Our financial results may be affected by a number of broad factors. See Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors above for further information on such factors, which may cause our actual future results to differ from those we currently seek or anticipate. Market Risks Our operations include managing market risks related to changes in interest rates, commodity prices and investments held by our nuclear decommissioning trust fund. Interest Rate and Equity Risk We have exposure to changing interest rates. Changing interest rates will affect interest paid on variable rate debt and the market value of fixed income securities held by our nuclear decommissioning trust fund (see Note 12). The nuclear decommissioning trust fund also has risks associated with the changing market value of its investments. Nuclear decommissioning costs are recovered in regulated electricity prices. The tables below present contractual balances of our consolidated long term and short term debt at the expected maturity dates as well as the fair value of those instruments on December 31, 2008 and 2007. The interest rates presented in the tables below represent the weighted average interest rates as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 (dollars in thousands): 68 Table of Contents Pinnacle West Consolidated Variable Rate Fixed Rate Short Term Debt Long Term Debt Long Term Debt Interest Interest Interest 2008 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount 2009 2.24 % $ 670,469 3.88 % $ 173,619 4.62 % $ 4,027 2010 3.99 % 2,042 5.66 % 1,137 2011 6.22 % 2,259 6.23 % 576,250 2012 6.00 % 16 6.50 % 376,338 2013 6.00 % 1,864 6.00 % 231 Years thereafter 8.30 % 539,145 5.64 % 1,540,229 Total $ 670,469 $ 718,945 $ 2,498,212 Fair value $ 670,469 $ 718,945 $ 2,107,635 Variable Rate Fixed Rate Short Term Debt Long Term Debt Long Term Debt Interest Interest Interest 2007 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount 2008 5.54 % $ 340,661 7.33 % $ 159,337 4.65 % $ 4,436 2009 7.20 % 71,054 5.76 % 1,050 2010 9.20 % 201 5.71 % 1,104 2011 8.91 % 2,284 6.23 % 576,218 2012 9.50 % 103 6.50 % 376,293 Years thereafter 3.77 % 567,239 5.64 % 1,540,462 Total $ 340,661 $ 800,218 $ 2,499,563 Fair value $ 340,661 $ 800,218 $ 2,414,301 The tables below present contractual balances of APS long term debt at the expected maturity dates as well as the fair value of those instruments on December 31, 2008 and 2007. The interest rates presented in the tables below represent the weighted average interest rates as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 (dollars in thousands): 69 Table of Contents APS Variable Rate Fixed Rate Short Term Debt Long Term Debt Long Term Debt Interest Interest Interest 2008 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount 2009 2.09 % $ 521,684 $ 5.62 % $ 874 2010 5.60 % 1,012 2011 6.37 % 401,208 2012 6.50 % 376,325 2013 6.00 % 231 Years thereafter 8.30 % 539,145 5.64 % 1,540,229 Total $ 521,684 $ 539,145 $ 2,319,879 Fair value $ 521,684 $ 539,145 $ 1,935,160 Variable Rate Fixed Rate Short Term Debt Long Term Debt Long Term Debt Interest Interest Interest 2007 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount 2008 5.36 % $ 218,000 $ 5.66 % $ 978 2009 5.60 % 934 2010 5.59 % 1,012 2011 6.37 % 401,208 2012 6.50 % 376,293 Years thereafter 3.76 % 565,855 5.64 % 1,540,462 Total $ 218,000 $ 565,855 $ 2,320,887 Fair value $ 218,000 $ 565,855 $ 2,235,624 Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the commodity price and transportation costs of electricity and natural gas. Our energy risk management committee, consisting of officers and key management personnel, oversees company wide energy risk management activities and monitors the results of marketing and trading activities to ensure compliance with our stated energy risk management and trading policies. We manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity instruments that qualify as derivatives, including exchange traded futures and options and over the counter forwards, options and swaps. As part of our risk management program, we use such instruments to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodities. The following tables show the net pretax changes in mark to market of our derivative positions in 2008 and 2007 (dollars in millions): 70 Table of Contents 2008 2007 Mark to market of net positions at beginning of year $ 40 $ 15 Recognized in earnings: Change in mark to market losses for future period deliveries (4 ) (2 ) Mark to market gains realized including ineffectiveness during the period (5 ) (15 ) Decrease (increase) in regulatory asset (111 ) 55 Recognized in OCI: Change in mark to market losses for future period deliveries (a) (138 ) (1 ) Mark to market gains realized during the period (64 ) (12 ) Change in valuation techniques Mark to market of net positions at end of year $ (282 ) $ 40 (a) The changes in mark to market recorded in OCI are due primarily to changes in forward natural gas prices. The tables below show the fair value of maturities of our derivative contracts (dollars in millions) at December 31, 2008 by maturities and by the type of valuation that is performed to calculate the fair values. See Note 1, Derivative Accounting and Fair Value Measurements, for more discussion of our valuation methods. Total fair Source of Fair Value 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Years thereafter value Prices actively quoted $ (50 ) $ (4 ) $ $ $ $ $ (54 ) Prices provided by other external sources (122 ) (53 ) (43 ) (3 ) (221 ) Prices based on models and other valuation methods (1 ) 5 4 (3 ) (12 ) (7 ) Total by maturity $ (172 ) $ (58 ) $ (38 ) $ 1 $ (3 ) $ (12 ) $ (282 ) The table below shows the impact that hypothetical price movements of 10% would have on the market value of our risk management and trading assets and liabilities included on Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 and 2007 (dollars in millions): 71 Table of Contents December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Gain (Loss) Gain (Loss) Price Up 10% Price Down 10% Price Up 10% Price Down 10% Mark to market changes reported in: Earnings Electricity $ 2 $ (2 ) $ 3 $ (3 ) Natural gas 3 (3 ) 4 (4 ) Regulatory asset (liability) or OCI (a) Electricity 20 (20 ) 45 (45 ) Natural gas 64 (64 ) 85 (85 ) Total $ 89 $ (89 ) $ 137 $ (137 ) (a) These contracts are hedges of our forecasted purchases of natural gas and electricity. The impact of these hypothetical price movements would substantially offset the impact that these same price movements would have on the physical exposures being hedged. To the extent the amounts are eligible for inclusion in the PSA, the amounts are recorded as either a regulatory asset or liability. Credit Risk We are exposed to losses in the event of non performance or non payment by counterparties. See Note 1, Derivative Accounting for a discussion of our credit valuation adjustment policy. See Note 18 for further discussion of credit risk. ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Regulatory Matters See Note 3 for information about rate matters affecting APS. 2008 Compared with 2007 APS net income decreased approximately $22 million, to $262 million in 2008 from $284 million in 2007. The major factors that increased (decreased) net income for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared with the prior year are summarized in the following table (dollars in millions): 72 Table of Contents Increase (Decrease) Pretax After Tax Impacts of retail rate increase effective July 1, 2007 and transmission rate increases: Retail revenue increase primarily related to higher Base Fuel Rate $ 156 $ 95 Decreased deferred fuel and purchased power costs related to higher Base Fuel Rate (141 ) (86 ) Transmission rate increases (including related retail rates) 31 19 Lower mark to market valuations of fuel and purchased power contracts related to changes in market prices, net of related PSA deferrals (14 ) (9 ) Regulatory disallowance in 2007 14 8 Higher retail sales primarily due to customer growth, excluding weather effects, partially offset by lower average usage 21 13 Effects of weather on retail sales (43 ) (26 ) Operations and maintenance expense increases primarily due to: Customer service and other costs, including distribution system reliability (31 ) (19 ) Generation costs, including more planned maintenance (18 ) (11 ) Employee severance costs (9 ) (5 ) Higher depreciation and amortization primarily due to increased utility plant in service (18 ) (11 ) Income tax benefits related to prior years resolved in 2008 29 Income tax benefits related to prior years resolved in 2007 (11 ) Higher interest expense, net of capitalized financing costs, primarily due to higher rates on certain APS pollution control bonds and higher short term debt balances (11 ) (6 ) Other miscellaneous items, net (2 ) (2 ) Decrease in net income $ (65 ) $ (22 ) Electric operating revenues were $197 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared with the prior year primarily because of: a $156 million increase in retail revenues due to a rate increase effective July 1, 2007; a $38 million increase in revenues from Off System Sales due to higher prices and volumes; a $31 million increase due to transmission rate increases (including related retail rates); a $29 million increase in retail revenues primarily related to customer growth, excluding weather effects; a $26 million increase in revenues related to long term traditional wholesale contracts; 73 Table of Contents a $14 million increase in renewable energy surcharges which are offset by operations and maintenance expense; a $63 million decrease in retail revenue due to the effects of weather; a $47 million decrease in retail revenues related to recovery of PSA deferrals, which had no earnings effect because of lower amortization of the same amount recorded as fuel and purchased power expense; and a $13 million net increase due to miscellaneous factors. 2007 Compared with 2006 Our net income increased approximately $14 million, to $284 million for 2007 from $270 million for 2006. The major factors that increased (decreased) net income for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the prior year are contained in the following table (dollars in millions): 74 Table of Contents Increase (Decrease) Pretax After Tax Higher retail sales primarily due to customer growth, excluding weather effects $ 46 $ 28 Effects of weather on retail sales 37 23 Impacts of retail rate increase effective July 1, 2007: Revenue increase related to higher Base Fuel Rate 185 113 Decreased deferred fuel and purchased power costs related to higher Base Fuel Rate (171 ) (104 ) Non fuel rate increase 6 4 Net changes in fuel and purchased power costs related to price: Higher fuel and purchased power costs related to increased commodity prices (121 ) (74 ) Increased deferred fuel and purchased power costs related to increased prices 115 70 Mark to market fuel and purchased power costs, net of related deferred fuel and purchased power costs 18 11 Regulatory disallowance (14 ) (8 ) Operations and maintenance increases primarily due to: Increased generation costs, including increased maintenance and overhauls and Palo Verde performance improvement plan (25 ) (15 ) Customer service and other costs (19 ) (11 ) Higher depreciation and amortization primarily due to increased utility plant in service (12 ) (7 ) Lower other income, net of expense, primarily due to lower interest income as a result of lower investment balances and miscellaneous asset sales in prior year (7 ) (4 ) Income tax benefits resolved in 2007 related to prior years 11 Income tax credits resolved in 2006 related to prior years (11 ) Higher interest expense, net of capitalized financing costs, primarily due to higher debt balances and higher rates (7 ) (4 ) Lower marketing and trading contribution primarily due to lower mark to market gains because of changes in forward prices (7 ) (4 ) Other miscellaneous items, net 2 (4 ) Increase in net income $ 26 $ 14 Electric operating revenues were $278 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the prior year primarily because of: a $191 million increase in retail revenues due to a rate increase effective July 1, 2007; a $60 million increase in retail revenues primarily related to customer growth, excluding weather effects; a $50 million increase in retail revenues due to the effects of weather; 75 Table of Contents a $3 million increase in revenues from Off System Sales due to higher prices and volumes; a $35 million decrease in retail revenues related to recovery of PSA deferrals, which had no earnings effect because of amortization of the same amount recorded as fuel and purchased power expense (see Note 3); and a $9 million net increase due to miscellaneous factors. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY Cash Flows The following table presents APS net cash provided by (used for) operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 (dollars in millions): 2008 2007 2006 Net cash flow provided by operating activities $ 785 $ 766 $ 394 Net cash flow used for investing activities (879 ) (881 ) (714 ) Net cash flow provided by financing activities 114 86 352 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 20 $ (29 ) $ 32 2008 Compared with 2007 The increase of approximately $19 million in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to lower current income taxes and increased retail revenue related to higher Base Fuel Rates, partially offset by increased collateral and margin cash provided as a result of changes in commodity prices. The decrease of approximately $2 million in net cash used for investing activities is primarily due to lower levels of capital expenditures (see table and discussion above) and increased contributions in aid of construction related to changes in 2008 in our line extension policy (see Note 3), substantially offset by lower cash proceeds from the net sales and purchases of investment securities. The increase of approximately $28 million in net cash provided by financing activities is primarily due to higher levels of short term borrowings, partially offset by decreased equity infusions from Pinnacle West and the repurchase of pollution control bonds (see Note 6). 2007 Compared with 2006 The increase of approximately $372 million in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to a decrease in 2007 in the amount of cash collateral and margin cash returned to counterparties as a result of changes in commodity prices. The increase of approximately $167 million in net cash used for investing activities is primarily due to an increase in cash used for capital expenditures (see table and discussion above) and 76 Table of Contents increased allowance for borrowed funds used during construction, partially offset by higher cash proceeds from the net sales and purchases of investment securities. The decrease of approximately $266 million in net cash provided by financing activities is primarily due to a decrease in net new long term debt (issuances net of redemptions and refinancing) and a decrease in equity infusions from Pinnacle West, partially offset by higher levels of short term borrowings to fund day to day operations and liquidity needs. Liquidity For additional discussion see Liquidity and Capital Resources Pinnacle West Consolidated. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes contractual requirements for APS as of December 31, 2008 (dollars in millions): 2010 2012 2009 2011 2013 Thereafter Total Long term debt payments, including interest (a) $ 182 $ 956 $ 646 $ 3,549 $ 5,333 Short term debt payments, including interest 523 523 Purchased power and fuel commitments (b) 449 651 777 6,053 7,930 Operating lease payments 76 135 122 121 454 Nuclear decommissioning funding requirements 22 49 49 185 305 Purchase obligations (c) 69 76 33 172 350 Minimum pension funding requirement (d) 35 24 59 Total contractual commitments $ 1,356 $ 1,891 $ 1,627 $ 10,080 $ 14,954 (a) The long term debt matures at various dates through 2036 and bears interest principally at fixed rates. Interest on variable rate long term debt is determined by using average rates at December 31, 2008 (see Note 6). (b) APS purchased power and fuel commitments include purchases of coal, electricity, natural gas, renewable energy and nuclear fuel (see Note 11). (c) These contractual obligations include commitments for capital expenditures and other obligations. (d) Future pension contributions are not determinable for plan years 2010 and beyond. This table excludes $68 million in unrecognized tax benefits because the timing of the future cash outflows is uncertain. 77 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK See Factors Affecting Our Financial Outlook in Item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 78 Table of Contents 
 
