ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS INTRODUCTION The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Financial Statements and APS Financial Statements and the related Notes that appear in Item 8 of this report. For information on the broad factors that may cause our actual future results to differ from those we currently seek or anticipate, see Forward Looking Statements at the front of this report and Risk Factors in Item 1A. OVERVIEW Pinnacle West owns all of the outstanding common stock of APS. APS is a vertically integrated electric utility that provides retail and wholesale electric service to most of the state of Arizona, with the major exceptions of about one half of the Phoenix metropolitan area, the Tucson metropolitan area and Mohave County in northwestern Arizona. APS accounts for substantially all of our revenues and earnings, and is expected to continue to do so. Areas of Business Focus Operational Performance and Reliability. Nuclear. Palo Verde experienced strong performance during 2009, with its three units achieving a combined year end capacity factor of 89%. With a focus on safely and efficiently generating electricity for the long term, APS applied for twenty year renewals of its operating licenses for each of the three Palo Verde units, and is making preparations to secure necessary resources to operate the plant during this extended period of time. Palo Verdes 2009 accomplishments also included the installation of a new reactor vessel head, upgraded equipment and processes designed to substantially reduce the time required to defuel and refuel the reactor during refueling outages, and the successful implementation of a comprehensive improvement plan, which allowed Palo Verde Unit 3 to exit the NRCs enhanced inspection regime (Column 4) earlier than anticipated, in March of 2009. Coal and Related Environmental Matters. APS coal plants, Four Corners and Cholla, achieved net capacity factors of 88% and 77%, respectively, in 2009. APS is focused on developing legislation and increased regulation concerning greenhouse gas emissions, and the potential impacts on our coal fleet. Recent concern over climate change and other emission related issues could have a significant impact on our capital expenditures and operating costs in the form of taxes, emissions allowances or required equipment upgrades for these plants. APS is closely monitoring our long range capital management plans, understanding that the resulting legislation and regulation could impact the economic viability of certain plants, as well as the willingness or ability of power plant participants to fund any such equipment upgrades. See Business of Arizona Public Service Company Environmental Matters Climate Change in Item 1 and climate change related risks described in Item 1A for additional climate change developments and risks facing APS. 44 Table of Contents Transmission and Delivery. In the area of transmission and delivery to its customers, APS also ranked favorably during 2009, with top quartile performance for average customer outage time. During 2009, APS undertook several significant transmission projects, including the Morgan to Pinnacle Peak transmission line scheduled for completion at the end of 2010, and the completion of two switchyards, one of which will support capacity for renewable energy projects. APS is working closely with regulators to identify and plan for transmission needs resulting from the current focus on renewable energy. APS is also working to establish and expand smart grid technology throughout its service territory designed to provide a variety of benefits both to APS and its customers. This technology should allow customers to better monitor their energy use and needs, minimize system outage durations and the number of customers that experience outages, and facilitate cost savings to APS through improved reliability and the automation of certain distribution functions, including remote meter reading and remote connects and disconnects. Renewable Energy. APS is committed to increasing the amount of energy produced by renewable energy resources, which was a significant focus in APS recent rate case settlement described below. APS and the other parties to the rate case worked with the ACC Commissioners to address a wide range of customer needs and to secure a clean, sustainable energy future for Arizona. The ACC adopted a renewable energy standard several years ago, recognizing the importance of renewable energy to our state. In the rate case settlement agreement, APS agreed to exceed these standards, committing that 10% of APS resources will come from renewable energy by the year 2015. A variety of other provisions in the settlement agreement reinforce APS dedication to renewable energy through initiatives to build a photovoltaic solar plant, install solar rooftop panels on schools and seek an Arizona wind generation project. During 2009, APS filed its annual RES implementation plan that included a request for ACC approval of the AZ Sun Program. As proposed in its plan, APS would invest an estimated $500 million to develop at least 100 MW of photovoltaic solar plants. It currently anticipates that this solar capacity would be placed into service in the 2011 to 2014 timeframe. The ultimate timing depends on the outcome of current and future procurement processes. See Note 3 for additional details regarding this program, including the estimated timing of the ACCs determination on the matter and the related cost recovery. APS also issued two requests for proposal (RFP) for renewable resources in early 2010. These RFPs are part of the process for procuring the additional renewable resources required under the rate case settlement. The first RFP is for utility scale solar photovoltaic projects between 15 and 50 MW. Assuming ACC approval of the AZ Sun Program as proposed, this RFP will serve as the first procurement step for implementing that program. The second RFP is for wind projects between 15 and 100 MW to be located within Arizona. Rate Matters. APS needs timely recovery through rates of its capital and operating expenditures to maintain adequate financial health. APS retail rates are regulated by the ACC and its wholesale electric rates (primarily for transmission) are regulated by the FERC. At the end of 2009, the ACC approved a settlement agreement entered into by APS and twenty one of the twenty three other parties to APS general retail rate case, with modifications that did not materially affect the overall economic terms of the agreement. The rate case settlement should strengthen APS financial condition by allowing for rate stability and a greater level of cost recovery and return on investment. It also authorizes and requires equity infusions into APS of at least $700 million prior to the end of 2014. The settlement demonstrates cooperation among APS, the ACC staff, the Residential Utility Consumer Office (RUCO) and other intervenors to the rate case, and establishes a future rate case filing plan that allows APS the opportunity to help shape Arizonas energy future outside of continual rate cases. See Note 3 for a detailed discussion of the settlement agreement terms and information on APS FERC rates. APS has several recovery mechanisms in place that provide more timely recovery to APS of its fuel and transmission costs, and costs associated with the promotion and implementation of its energy efficiency, demand side management and renewable energy efforts and customer programs. These mechanisms are described more fully in Note 3. 45 Table of Contents Financial Strength and Flexibility. Despite the volatility and disruption of the credit markets, Pinnacle West and APS currently have ample borrowing capacity under their respective credit facilities and have been able to access these facilities, ensuring adequate liquidity for each company. In early February 2010, APS entered into a $500 million revolving credit facility, replacing its $377 million revolving credit facility that would have otherwise terminated in December 2010. At that same time, Pinnacle West entered into a $200 million revolving credit facility that replaces its $283 million facility that also would have otherwise terminated in December 2010. SunCor Real Estate Operations. As a result of the continuing distressed conditions in the real estate markets, during 2009 SunCor undertook a program to dispose of its homebuilding operations, master planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order to eliminate its outstanding debt. This resulted in impairment charges of approximately $266 million, or $161 million after income taxes, for 2009. See Pinnacle West Consolidated Liquidity and Capital Resources Other Subsidiaries SunCor below for a discussion of SunCors outstanding debt and related matters, Note 23 for a further discussion of impairment charges and the SunCor related risk factor in Item 1A. Subsidiaries. Our other first tier subsidiaries, El Dorado and APSES, are not expected to have any material impact on our financial results, or to require any material amounts of capital, over the next three years. Key Financial Drivers In addition to the continuing impact of the matters described above, many factors influence our financial results and our future financial outlook, including those listed below. We closely monitor these factors to plan for the Companys current needs, and to adjust our expectations, financial budgets and forecasts appropriately. Electric Operating Revenues. For the years 2007 through 2009, retail electric revenues comprised approximately 94% of our total electric operating revenues. Our electric operating revenues are affected by customer growth, variations in weather from period to period, customer mix, average usage per customer and the impacts of energy efficiency programs, electricity rates and tariffs, the recovery of PSA deferrals and the operation of other recovery mechanisms. Off system sales of excess generation output, purchased power and natural gas are included in regulated electricity segment revenues and related fuel and purchased power because they are credited to APS retail customers through the PSA. These revenue transactions are affected by the availability of excess economic generation or other energy resources and wholesale market conditions, including competition, demand and prices. Customer and Sales Growth. Customer growth in APS service territory for the year ended December 31, 2009 was 0.6% compared with the prior year. For the three years 2007 through 2009, APS customer growth averaged 1.8% per year. We currently expect customer growth to average about 1% per year for 2010 through 2012 due to economic conditions both nationally and in Arizona. Retail sales in kilowatt hours, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations, for 2009 declined 2.4% compared to the prior year, reflecting the poor economic conditions in 2009 and the effects of our energy efficiency programs. For the three years 2007 through 2009, APS actual retail electricity sales in kilowatt hours, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations, grew at an average annual rate of 0.3%. We currently estimate that total retail electricity sales in kilowatt hours will remain flat on average per year during 2010 through 2012, including the effects of APS energy efficiency programs, but excluding the effects of weather variations. A continuation of the economic downturn, or the failure of the Arizona economy to rebound in the near future, could further impact these estimates. The customer and sales growth referred to in this paragraph apply to Native Load customers. 46 Table of Contents Actual sales growth, excluding weather related variations, may differ from our projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth, usage patterns, impacts of energy efficiency programs and responses to retail price changes. Our experience indicates that a reasonable range of variation in our kilowatt hour sales projection attributable to such economic factors under normal business conditions can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of up to $10 million. Weather. In forecasting the retail sales growth numbers provided above, we assume normal weather patterns based on historical data. Historical extreme weather variations have resulted in annual variations in net income in excess of $20 million. However, our experience indicates that the more typical variations from normal weather can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of up to $10 million. Fuel and Purchased Power Costs. Fuel and purchased power costs included on our Consolidated Statements of Income are impacted by our electricity sales volumes, existing contracts for purchased power and generation fuel, our power plant performance, transmission availability or constraints, prevailing market prices, new generating plants being placed in service in our market areas, our hedging program for managing such costs and PSA deferrals and the amortization thereof. Operations and Maintenance Expenses. Operations and maintenance expenses are impacted by growth, power plant operations, maintenance of utility plant (including generation, transmission, and distribution facilities), inflation, outages, higher trending pension and other postretirement benefit costs, renewable energy and demand side management related expenses (which are offset by the same amount of regulated electricity segment operating revenues) and other factors. In its recent retail rate case settlement, APS committed to operational expense reductions from 2010 through 2014 and received approval to defer certain pension and other postretirement benefit cost increases to be incurred in 2011 and 2012. Depreciation and Amortization Expenses. Depreciation and amortization expenses are impacted by net additions to utility plant and other property (such as new generation, transmission, and distribution facilities), and changes in depreciation and amortization rates. The Capital Expenditures section below provides information regarding the planned additions to our facilities. We have also applied to the NRC for renewed operating licenses for each of the Palo Verde units. If the NRC grants the extension, we estimate that our annual pretax depreciation expense will decrease by approximately $34 million at the later of the license extension date or January 1, 2012. Property Taxes. Taxes other than income taxes consist primarily of property taxes, which are affected by the value of property in service and under construction, assessment ratios, and tax rates. The average property tax rate for APS, which currently owns the majority of our property, was 7.5% of the assessed value for 2009, 7.8% of the assessed value for 2008 and 8.3% of the assessed value for 2007. We expect property taxes to increase as we add new utility plant (including new generation, transmission and distribution facilities described below under Capital Additions) and as we improve our existing facilities. 47 Table of Contents Income Taxes. Income taxes are affected by the amount of pre tax book income, income tax rates, and certain non taxable items, such as the allowance for equity funds used during construction. In addition, income taxes may also be affected by the settlement of issues with taxing authorities. Interest Expense. Interest expense is affected by the amount of debt outstanding and the interest rates on that debt (see Note 6.) The primary factors affecting borrowing levels are expected to be our capital expenditures, long term debt maturities, and internally generated cash flow. Capitalized interest offsets a portion of interest expense while capital projects are under construction. We stop accruing capitalized interest on a project when it is placed in commercial operation. PINNACLE WEST CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our results of operations, provided below, are based upon our two reportable business segments: our regulated electricity segment, which consists of traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electric service to Native Load customers) and related activities and includes electricity generation, transmission and distribution; and our real estate segment, which consists of SunCors real estate development and investment activities. Operating Results 2009 Compared with 2008 Our consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders for 2009 was $68 million, compared with net income of $242 million for the prior year. The decrease in net income was primarily due to 2009 real estate impairment charges recorded by SunCor, the Companys real estate subsidiary. In addition, regulated electricity segment net income decreased approximately $13 million from the prior year primarily due to lower retail sales resulting from lower usage per customer; higher interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs; higher depreciation and amortization expenses; and the absence of income tax benefits related to prior years recorded in 2008. These negative factors were partially offset by increased revenues due to the interim rate increase effective January 1, 2009 and transmission rate increases. 48 Table of Contents The following table presents net income attributable to common shareholders by business segment compared with the prior year: Increase (Decrease) in Net Income Year Ended Attributable December 31, to Common 2009 2008 Shareholders (dollars in millions) Regulated Electricity Segment: Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses $ 1,970 $ 1,843 $ 127 Operations and maintenance (862 ) (796 ) (66 ) Depreciation and amortization (400 ) (383 ) (17 ) Taxes other than income taxes (123 ) (125 ) 2 Other income (expenses), net (1 ) (20 ) 19 Interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs (199 ) (171 ) (28 ) Income taxes (142 ) (92 ) (50 ) Regulated electricity segment net income 243 256 (13 ) Real Estate Segment: Real estate impairment charges (a) (266 ) (53 ) (213 ) Other real estate operations (10 ) 10 (20 ) Income taxes 109 17 92 Real estate segment net loss (167 ) (26 ) (141 ) All Other (b) (8 ) 12 (20 ) Net Income Attributable to Common Shareholders $ 68 $ 242 $ (174 ) (a) See Note 23 for additional information on real estate impairment charges. (b) Includes activities related to marketing and trading, APSES and El Dorado. Income for 2008 includes income from discontinued operations of $8 million related to the resolution of certain tax issues associated with the sale of Silverhawk in 2005. None of these segments is a reportable segment. Regulated electricity segment This section includes a discussion of major variances in income and expense amounts for the regulated electricity segment. 49 Table of Contents Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses Regulated electricity segment operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses were $127 million higher for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year. The following table describes the major components of this change: Increase (Decrease) Purchased Operating power and fuel revenues expenses Net change (dollars in millions) Higher renewable energy and demand side management surcharges (substantially offset in operations and maintenance expense) $ 63 $ $ 63 Interim retail rate increases effective January 1, 2009 61 61 Transmission rate increases 21 21 Increased mark to market valuations of fuel and purchased power contracts related to favorable changes in market prices, net of related PSA deferrals (18 ) 18 Effects of weather on retail sales, primarily due to hotter weather in the third quarter of 2009 12 3 9 Lower retail sales primarily due to lower usage per customer, including the effects of the Companys energy efficiency programs, but excluding the effects of weather (58 ) (26 ) (32 ) Higher fuel and purchased power costs including the effects of lower off system sales, net of related PSA deferrals (30 ) (19 ) (11 ) Lower retail revenues related to recovery of PSA deferrals, offset by lower amortization of the same amount recorded as fuel and purchased power expense (see Note 3) (36 ) (36 ) Miscellaneous items, net (11 ) (9 ) (2 ) Total $ 22 $ (105 ) $ 127 Operations and maintenance Operations and maintenance expenses increased $66 million for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of: An increase of $62 million related to renewable energy and demand side management programs, which are offset in operating revenues; An increase of $29 million in generation costs, including more planned maintenance, partially offset by lower costs at Palo Verde due to cost efficiency measures; and A decrease of $25 million associated with cost saving measures and other factors, including the absence of employee severance costs in 2009. 50 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $17 million for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of increases in utility plant in service. The increases in utility plant in service are the result of various improvements to APS existing fossil and nuclear generating plants and distribution and transmission infrastructure additions and upgrades. Interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs Interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs increased $28 million for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher debt balances, partially offset by the effects of lower interest rates (see discussion related to APS debt issuances in Pinnacle West Consolidated Liquidity and Capital Resources below). Interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs are comprised of the regulated electricity segment portions of the line items interest expense, capitalized interest and allowance for equity funds used during construction from the Consolidated Statements of Income. Other income (expenses), net Other income (expenses), net improved $19 million for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of improved investment gains. Other income (expenses), net is comprised of the regulated electricity segment portions of the line items other income and other expense from the Consolidated Statements of Income. Income taxes Income taxes were $50 million higher for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of $30 million of income tax benefits related to prior years recorded in 2008 and higher pretax income. See Note 4. Real estate segment During the first quarter of 2009, we decided to restructure SunCor through the sale of substantially all of its assets. The real estate segment net loss attributable to common shareholders was $141 million higher for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of: An increase in real estate impairment charges of $213 million (see Note 23 for details of the impairment charges); A decrease of $20 million in income from other real estate operations primarily due to 2008 income from a commercial property sale; and An increase in income tax benefits of $92 million primarily because of a higher net loss. All Other All other earnings were $20 million lower for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of planned reductions of marketing and trading activities and the absence of the 2008 resolution of certain tax issues associated with the sale of Silverhawk in 2005. Operating Results 2008 Compared with 2007 Our consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders for 2008 was $242 million, compared with net income of $307 million for the prior year. The decrease in net income was primarily due to lower results recorded by SunCor, the Companys real estate subsidiary. 51 Table of Contents In addition, regulated electricity segment net income decreased approximately $18 million from the prior year primarily due to higher operations and maintenance expenses; lower retail sales due to the effects of weather; higher depreciation and amortization expenses; and higher interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs. These negative factors were partially offset by increased revenues due to the rate increase effective July 1, 2007; transmission rate increases; and income tax benefits related to prior years recorded in 2008. The following table presents net income attributable to common shareholders by business segment compared with the prior year: Increase (Decrease) in Net Income Year Ended Attributable December 31, to Common 2008 2007 Shareholders (dollars in millions) Regulated Electricity Segment: Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses $ 1,843 $ 1,777 $ 66 Operations and maintenance (796 ) (709 ) (87 ) Depreciation and amortization (383 ) (365 ) (18 ) Taxes other than income taxes (125 ) (128 ) 3 Other income (expenses), net (20 ) (6 ) (14 ) Interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs (171 ) (156 ) (15 ) Income taxes (92 ) (139 ) 47 Regulated electricity segment net income 256 274 (18 ) Real Estate Segment: Real estate impairment charges (a) (53 ) (53 ) Other real estate operations 10 37 (27 ) Income taxes 17 (14 ) 31 Real estate segment net income (loss) (26 ) 23 (49 ) All Other (b) 12 10 2 Net Income Attributable to Common Shareholders $ 242 $ 307 $ (65 ) (a) See Note 23 for additional information on real estate impairment charges. (b) Includes activities related to marketing and trading, APSES and El Dorado. Income for 2008 includes income from discontinued operations of $8 million related to the resolution of certain tax issues associated with the sale of Silverhawk in 2005. None of these segments is a reportable segment. 52 Table of Contents Regulated electricity segment This section includes a discussion of major variances in income and expense amounts for the regulated electricity segment. Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses Regulated electricity segment operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses were $66 million higher for the year ended 2008 compared with the prior year. The following table describes the major components of this change: Increase (Decrease) Purchased Operating power and fuel revenues expenses Net change (dollars in millions) Retail rate increases effective July 1, 2007 $ 156 $ $ 156 Deferred fuel and purchased power costs related to higher base fuel rate 141 (141 ) Transmission rate increases 31 31 Higher retail sales primarily due to customer growth partially offset by lower usage per customer, but excluding the effects of weather 29 8 21 Higher renewable energy surcharges (substantially offset in operations and maintenance expense) 14 14 Regulatory disallowance in 2007 (14 ) 14 Revenues related to long term traditional wholesale contracts 26 14 12 Higher fuel and purchased power costs including the effects of lower off system sales, net of related PSA deferrals 38 41 (3 ) Lower mark to market valuations of fuel and purchased power contracts related to changes in market prices, net of related PSA deferrals 14 (14 ) Effects of weather on retail sales (63 ) (20 ) (43 ) Lower retail revenues related to recovery of PSA deferrals, offset by lower amortization of the same amount recorded as fuel and purchased power expense (see Note 3) (47 ) (47 ) Miscellaneous items, net 25 6 19 Total $ 209 $ 143 $ 66 53 Table of Contents Operations and maintenance Operations and maintenance expenses increased $87 million for the year ended 2008 compared with the prior year primarily because of: An increase of $30 million related to customer service and other costs including distribution system reliability; An increase of $18 million in generation costs, including more planned maintenance; An increase of $14 million related to renewable energy programs, which are offset in operating revenues; An increase of $9 million associated with employee severance costs in 2008; and An increase of $16 million due to other miscellaneous factors. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $18 million for the year ended 2008 compared with the prior year primarily because of increases in utility plant in service. The increases in utility plant in service are the result of various improvements to APS existing fossil and nuclear generating plants and distribution and transmission infrastructure additions and upgrades. Interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs Interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs increased $15 million for the year ended 2008 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher rates on certain APS pollution control bonds and higher short term debt balances. Interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs, are comprised of the regulated electricity segment portions of the line items interest expense, capitalized interest and allowance for equity funds used during construction from the Consolidated Statements of Income. Other income (expenses), net Other income (expenses), net reduced earnings by an additional $14 million for the year ended 2008 compared with the prior year primarily because of losses on investments and lower interest income. Other income (expenses), net is comprised of the regulated electricity segment portions of the line items other income and other expense from the Consolidated Statements of Income. Income taxes Income taxes were $47 million lower for the year ended 2008 compared with the prior year primarily because of $17 million of increased income tax benefits related to prior years resolved in 2008 and 2007 and lower pre tax income. See Note 4. Real estate segment The real estate segment net income attributable to common shareholders was $49 million lower for the year ended 2008 compared with the prior year primarily because of: Real estate impairment charges of $53 million (see Note 23) without comparable charges in the prior year; A decrease of $27 million from other real estate operations primarily due to decreased land parcel sales in the 2008 period as a result of the weak real estate market; and An increase in income tax benefits of $31 million primarily because of the net loss recorded in 2008. 54 Table of Contents PINNACLE WEST CONSOLIDATED LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows The following table presents net cash provided by (used for) operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (dollars in millions): 2009 2008 2007 Net cash flow provided by operating activities $ 1,031 $ 814 $ 658 Net cash flow used for investing activities (705 ) (815 ) (873 ) Net cash flow provided by (used for) financing activities (286 ) 51 185 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 40 $ 50 $ (30 ) 2009 Compared with 2008 The increase of approximately $217 million in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to a reduction of collateral and margin cash required as a result of changes in commodity prices and a 2009 income tax refund (see Note 4). The decrease of approximately $110 million in net cash used for investing activities is primarily due to lower levels of capital expenditures net of contributions (see table and discussion below), partially offset by lower real estate sales primarily due to a commercial property sale in 2008. The increase of approximately $337 million in net cash used for financing activities is primarily due to repayments of short term borrowings, partially offset by APS issuance of $500 million of unsecured senior notes (see Note 6). 2008 Compared with 2007 The increase of approximately $156 million in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to lower current income taxes; lower real estate investments resulting from the weak real estate market; and increased retail revenue related to higher Base Fuel Rates, partially offset by increased collateral and margin cash provided as a result of changes in commodity prices. The decrease of approximately $58 million in net cash used for investing activities is primarily due to a real estate commercial property sale in 2008; lower levels of capital expenditures (see table and discussion below); and increased contributions in aid of construction related to changes in 2008 in APS line extension policy (see Note 3), partially offset by lower cash proceeds from the net sales and purchases of investment securities. 55 Table of Contents The decrease of approximately $134 million in net cash provided by financing activities is primarily due to the use of the proceeds from the sale of a real estate commercial property to pay down long term debt in 2008, partially offset by higher levels of short term debt borrowings. Liquidity Capital Expenditure Requirements The following table summarizes the actual capital expenditures for 2007, 2008 and 2009 and estimated capital expenditures for the next three years: CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (dollars in millions) Actual Estimated 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 APS Generation (a) $ 353 $ 310 $ 241 $ 408 $ 425 $ 545 Distribution 372 340 246 304 344 368 Transmission 138 163 193 158 169 206 Other (b) 37 43 52 84 71 48 Subtotal 900 856 732 954 1,009 1,167 Other (c) 164 48 13 Total $ 1,064 $ 904 $ 745 $ 954 $ 1,009 $ 1,167 (a) Generation includes nuclear fuel expenditures of approximately $60 million to $80 million per year for 2010, 2011 and 2012. (b) Primarily information systems and facilities projects. (c) Consists primarily of capital expenditures for residential, land development and retail and office building construction reflected in Real estate investments and Capital expenditures on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Generation capital expenditures are comprised of various improvements to APS existing fossil and nuclear plants. Examples of the types of projects included in this category are additions, upgrades and capital replacements of various power plant equipment such as turbines, boilers and environmental equipment. Environmental expenditures for the years 2010, 2011 and 2012 are approximately $20 million, $80 million and $220 million, respectively. We are also monitoring the status of certain environmental matters, which, depending on their final outcome, could require modification to our environmental expenditures. (See Business of Arizona Public Service Company Environmental Matters EPA Environmental Regulation Regional Haze Rules and Mercury and other Hazardous Air Pollutants in Item 1.) 56 Table of Contents Distribution and transmission capital expenditures are comprised of infrastructure additions and upgrades, capital replacements, new customer construction and related information systems and facility costs. Examples of the types of projects included in the forecast include power lines, substations, line extensions to new residential and commercial developments and upgrades to customer information systems. Capital expenditures will be funded with internally generated cash and or external financings, which may include issuances of long term debt and Pinnacle West common stock. Pinnacle West (Parent Company) Our primary cash needs are for dividends to our shareholders and principal and interest payments on our long term debt. The level of our common stock dividends and future dividend growth will be dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, payout ratio trends, free cash flow and financial market conditions. On January 20, 2010, the Pinnacle West Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share of common stock, payable on March 1, 2010, to shareholders of record on February 1, 2010. Our primary sources of cash are dividends from APS, external debt and equity financings. For the years 2007 through 2009, total distributions from APS were $510 million and total distributions received from SunCor were $5 million. For 2009, cash distributions from APS were $170 million and there were no distributions from SunCor. An existing ACC order requires APS to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40%. As defined in the ACC order, the common equity ratio is common equity divided by the sum of common equity and long term debt, including current maturities of long term debt. At December 31, 2009, APS common equity ratio, as defined, was 50%. Its total common equity was approximately $3.4 billion, and total capitalization was approximately $6.8 billion. APS would be prohibited from paying dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below approximately $2.7 billion, assuming APS total capitalization remains the same. The credit and liquidity markets experienced significant stress beginning the third quarter of 2008. Since the fourth quarter of 2008, Pinnacle West and APS have not accessed the commercial paper market due to negative market conditions. They have both been able to access existing credit facilities, ensuring adequate liquidity. At December 31, 2009, Pinnacle West had a $283 million revolving credit facility that was scheduled to terminate in December 2010. The revolver was available to support the issuance of up to $250 million in commercial paper or to be used as bank borrowings, including issuances of letters of credit of up to $94 million. The parent company had $149 million of borrowings outstanding under its revolving credit facility and no letters of credit at December 31, 2009. On February 12, 2010, Pinnacle West refinanced its $283 million revolving credit facility that would have matured in December 2010, and decreased the size of the facility to $200 million. The new revolving credit facility terminates in February 2013. Pinnacle West may increase the amount of the facility up to a maximum of $300 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders. Pinnacle West will use the facility for general corporate purposes, repayment of long term debt, and for the issuance of letters of credit. Interest rates are based on Pinnacle Wests senior unsecured debt credit ratings. In addition, because of the downsized revolving credit facility, the Company is in the process of reducing the size of its commercial paper program to $200 million from $250 million. 57 Table of Contents Pinnacle West expects to recognize approximately $125 million of cash tax benefits related to SunCors strategic asset sales (see Note 23), which will not be realized until the asset sale transactions are completed. Approximately $105 million of these benefits were recorded in 2009 as reductions to income tax expense related to the current impairment charges. The additional $20 million of tax benefits were recorded as reductions to income tax expense related to the SunCor impairment charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008. The $91 million income tax receivable (current and long term) on the Consolidated Balance Sheets represents the anticipated cash refunds related to an APS tax accounting method change approved by the United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in the third quarter of 2009 and the expected tax benefits related to the SunCor strategic asset sales that closed in 2009. Pinnacle West sponsors a qualified defined benefit and account balance pension plan and a non qualified supplemental excess benefit retirement plan for the employees of Pinnacle West and our subsidiaries. IRS regulations require us to contribute a minimum amount to the qualified plan. We contribute at least the minimum amount required under IRS regulations, but no more than the maximum tax deductible amount. The minimum required funding takes into consideration the value of plan assets and our pension obligation. The assets in the plan are comprised of fixed income, equity and short term investments. Future year contribution amounts are dependent on plan asset performance and plan actuarial assumptions. We made no contribution to our pension plan in 2009. We currently estimate that our pension contributions could average around $100 million for several years, assuming the discount rate remains at approximately current levels. In January 2010, we made a voluntary contribution of approximately $50 million to our pension plan and we expect to make an additional voluntary contribution of $50 million later in 2010. The contribution to our other postretirement benefit plans in 2010 is estimated to be approximately $15 million. APS and other subsidiaries fund their share of the contributions. APS share is approximately 97% of both plans. See Note 3 for information regarding the recent retail rate case settlement, which includes ACC authorization and requires equity infusions into APS of at least $700 million by December 31, 2014. Pinnacle West intends to issue equity to provide most of the funds for the equity infusions into APS. Such equity issuances may occur at any time in the period through 2014, in Pinnacle Wests discretion. In May 2007, Pinnacle West infused approximately $40 million of equity into APS, consisting of proceeds of stock issuances in 2006 under Pinnacle Wests Investors Advantage Plan (direct stock purchase and dividend reinvestment plan) and employee stock plans. APS APS capital requirements consist primarily of capital expenditures and mandatory redemptions of long term debt. APS pays for its capital requirements with cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, equity infusions from Pinnacle West and external financings. See Pinnacle West (Parent Company) above for a discussion of the common equity ratio that APS must maintain in order to pay dividends to Pinnacle West. On February 26, 2009, APS issued $500 million of 8.75% unsecured senior notes that mature on March 1, 2019. Net proceeds from the sale of the notes were used to repay short term borrowings under two committed revolving lines of credit incurred to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes. 58 Table of Contents During 2009, APS refinanced approximately $343 million of its $656 million pollution control bonds. As a result of these refinancings, the terms of which are described in detail in Note 6, APS no longer has any outstanding debt securities in auction rate mode. On September 11, 2008, APS purchased all of the approximately $27 million of the Coconino Pollution Control Revenue Bonds, Series 1996A and Series 1999 due December 2031 and April 2034 and held them as treasury bonds. On September 22, 2009, Coconino issued approximately $27 million of Coconino Pollution Control Revenue Refunding Bonds, 2009 Series B due April 2038 to redeem the existing bonds. APS used the funds received from the issuance to repay certain existing indebtedness under a revolving line of credit drawn upon by APS to fund its purchase of the 1996A and 1999 Series Bonds in 2008. The 2009 Series B Bonds are payable solely from revenues obtained from APS pursuant to a loan agreement between APS and Coconino. According to the indenture of the bonds, the interest rate of the 2009 Series B Bonds could be reset daily, weekly, monthly, or at other time intervals. The initial rate period selected for the 2009 Series B Bonds is a daily rate period. At December 31, 2009, the daily interest rate was 0.26%. The daily rates are variable rates set by a remarketing agent. Concurrently with the issuance of the 2009 Series B Bonds, the Company entered into a two year letter of credit and reimbursement agreement to provide credit support for the 2009 Series B Bonds. At December 31, 2009, APS had two committed revolving credit facilities totaling $866 million, of which $377 million was scheduled to terminate in December 2010 and $489 million terminates in September 2011. The revolvers were available either to support the issuance of up to $250 million in commercial paper or to be used for bank borrowings, including issuances of letters of credit up to $583 million. At December 31, 2009, APS had no borrowings and no letters of credit under its revolving lines of credit. On February 12, 2010, APS refinanced its $377 million revolving credit facility that would have matured in December 2010, and increased the size of the facility to $500 million. The new revolving credit facility terminates in February 2013. APS may increase the amount of the facility up to a maximum of $700 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders. APS will use the facility for general corporate purposes and for the issuance of letters of credit. Interest rates are based on APS senior unsecured debt credit ratings. Other Financing Matters See Note 3 for information regarding the PSA approved by the ACC. Although APS defers actual retail fuel and purchased power costs on a current basis, APS recovery of the deferrals from its ratepayers is subject to annual and, if necessary, periodic PSA adjustments. See Note 3 for information regarding the recent retail rate case settlement, which includes ACC authorization and requires equity infusions into APS of at least $700 million by December 31, 2014. See Note 18 for information related to the change in our margin accounts. 59 Table of Contents Other Subsidiaries SunCor SunCors principal loan facility, the SunCor Secured Revolver, is secured primarily by an interest in land, commercial properties, land contracts and homes under construction. At December 31, 2009, SunCor had borrowings of approximately $57 million under the Secured Revolver (see Note 6). The revolver matured on January 30, 2010. SunCor and the agent bank for the Secured Revolver are discussing an extension of the maturity date to allow time for SunCor to continue discussions concerning the potential sale of additional properties. In addition to the Secured Revolver, at December 31, 2009, SunCor had approximately $43 million of outstanding debt under other credit facilities ($9 million of which has matured since December 31, 2009 and remains outstanding) (see Notes 5 and 6). SunCor intends to apply the proceeds of planned asset sales (see Note 23) to the repayment of its outstanding debt. Real estate impairment charges recorded throughout 2009 (see Note 23) resulted in violations of certain covenants contained in the SunCor Secured Revolver and SunCors other credit facilities. The lenders have taken no enforcement action related to the covenant defaults. If SunCor is unable to obtain an extension or renewal of the Secured Revolver or its other matured debt, or if it is unable to comply with the mandatory repayment and other provisions of any new or modified credit agreements, SunCor could be required to immediately repay its outstanding indebtedness under all of its credit facilities as a result of cross default provisions. Such an immediate repayment obligation would have a material adverse impact on SunCors business and financial position and impair its ongoing viability. SunCor cannot predict the outcome of negotiations with its lenders or its ability to sell assets for sufficient proceeds to repay its outstanding debt. SunCors ability to generate sufficient cash from operations while it pursues lender negotiations and further asset sales is uncertain. Neither Pinnacle West nor any of its other subsidiaries has guaranteed any SunCor indebtedness. A SunCor debt default would not result in a cross default of any of the debt of Pinnacle West or any of its other subsidiaries. While there can be no assurances as to the ultimate outcome of this matter, Pinnacle West does not believe that SunCors inability to obtain waivers or similar relief from SunCors lenders would have a material adverse impact on Pinnacle Wests cash flows or liquidity. As of December 31, 2009, SunCor could not transfer any cash dividends to Pinnacle West as a result of the covenants mentioned above. The restriction does not materially affect Pinnacle Wests ability to meet its ongoing capital requirements. El Dorado El Dorado expects minimal capital requirements over the next three years and intends to focus on prudently realizing the value of its existing investments. APSES APSES expects minimal capital expenditures over the next three years. Debt Provisions Pinnacle Wests and APS debt covenants related to their respective bank financing arrangements include debt to capitalization ratios. Certain of APS bank financing arrangements also include an interest coverage test. Pinnacle West and APS comply with these covenants and each anticipates it will continue to meet these and other significant covenant requirements. For both Pinnacle West and APS, these covenants require that the ratio of consolidated debt to total consolidated capitalization not exceed 65%. At December 31, 2009, the ratio was approximately 52% for Pinnacle West and 48% for APS. The provisions regarding interest coverage require minimum cash coverage of two times the interest requirements for APS. The interest coverage was approximately 4.6 times under APS bank financing agreements as of December 31, 2009. Failure to comply with such covenant levels would result in an event of default which, generally speaking, would require the immediate repayment of the debt subject to the covenants and could cross default other debt. See further discussion of cross default provisions below. 60 Table of Contents Neither Pinnacle Wests nor APS financing agreements contain rating triggers that would result in an acceleration of the required interest and principal payments in the event of a rating downgrade. However, our bank financial agreements contain a pricing grid in which the interest costs we pay are determined by our current credit ratings. All of Pinnacle Wests loan agreements contain cross default provisions that would result in defaults and the potential acceleration of payment under these loan agreements if Pinnacle West or APS were to default under certain other material agreements. All of APS bank agreements contain cross default provisions that would result in defaults and the potential acceleration of payment under these bank agreements if APS were to default under certain other material agreements. Pinnacle West and APS do not have a material adverse change restriction for revolver borrowings. See Notes 5 and 6 for further discussions of liquidity matters. Credit Ratings The ratings of securities of Pinnacle West and APS as of February 17, 2010 are shown below. The ratings reflect the respective views of the rating agencies, from which an explanation of the significance of their ratings may be obtained. There is no assurance that these ratings will continue for any given period of time. The ratings may be revised or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies if, in their respective judgments, circumstances so warrant. Any downward revision or withdrawal may adversely affect the market price of Pinnacle Wests or APS securities and serve to increase the cost of and limit access to capital. It may also require substantial additional cash or other collateral requirements related to certain derivative instruments, insurance policies, natural gas transportation, fuel supply, and other energy related contracts. At this time, we believe we have sufficient liquidity to cover a downward revision to our credit ratings. Moodys Standard Poors Fitch Pinnacle West Senior unsecured (a) Baa3 (P) BB (prelim) N/A Commercial paper P 3 A 3 F3 Outlook Stable Stable Negative APS Senior unsecured Baa2 BBB BBB Secured lease obligation bonds Baa2 BBB BBB Commercial paper P 2 A 3 F3 Outlook Stable Stable Stable (a) Pinnacle West has a shelf registration under SEC Rule 415. Pinnacle West currently has no outstanding, rated senior unsecured securities. However, Moodys assigned a provisional (P) rating and Standard Poors assigned a preliminary (prelim) rating to the senior unsecured securities that can be issued under such shelf registration. 61 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In 1986, APS entered into agreements with three separate VIE lessors in order to sell and lease back interests in Palo Verde Unit 2. The leases are accounted for as operating leases. We are not the primary beneficiary of the Palo Verde VIEs and, accordingly, do not consolidate them (see Note 9). APS is exposed to losses under the Palo Verde sale leaseback agreements upon the occurrence of certain events that APS does not consider to be reasonably likely to occur. Under certain circumstances (for example, the NRC issuing specified violation orders with respect to Palo Verde or the occurrence of specified nuclear events), APS would be required to assume the debt associated with the transactions, make specified payments to the equity participants, and take title to the leased Unit 2 interests, which, if appropriate, may be required to be written down in value. If such an event had occurred as of December 31, 2009, APS would have been required to assume approximately $152 million of debt and pay the equity participants approximately $153 million. SunCor is the primary beneficiary of certain land development arrangements and, accordingly, consolidates the variable interest entities. The assets and non controlling interests reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets related to these arrangements were approximately $29 million at December 31, 2009 and at December 31, 2008. See Note 2 for a discussion of amended accounting guidance relating to VIEs adopted on January 1, 2010. Guarantees and Letters of Credit We have issued parental guarantees and letters of credit and obtained surety bonds on behalf of our subsidiaries. Our parental guarantees for APS relate to commodity energy products. In addition, Pinnacle West has obtained approximately $8 million of surety bonds related to APS operations, which primarily relate to self insured workers compensation. Our credit support instruments enable APSES to offer energy related products. Non performance or non payment under the original contract by our subsidiaries would require us to perform under the guarantee or surety bond. No liability is currently recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to Pinnacle Wests current outstanding guarantees on behalf of our subsidiaries. At December 31, 2009, we had no guarantees that were in default. Our guarantees have no recourse or collateral provisions to allow us to recover amounts paid under the guarantees. We generally agree to indemnification provisions related to liabilities arising from or related to certain of our agreements, with limited exceptions depending on the particular agreement. See Note 21 for additional information regarding guarantees and letters of credit. 62 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes Pinnacle Wests consolidated contractual requirements as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in millions): 2011 2013 2010 2012 2014 Thereafter Total Long term debt payments, including interest: (a) APS $ 397 $ 1,233 $ 785 $ 2,835 $ 5,250 SunCor 81 14 2 97 Pinnacle West 10 177 187 Total long term debt payments, including interest and capital lease obligations 488 1,424 787 2,835 5,534 Short term debt payments, including interest (b) 154 154 Purchased power and fuel commitments (c) 444 687 947 6,397 8,475 Operating lease payments (d) 77 141 126 73 417 Nuclear decommissioning funding requirements 24 49 49 161 283 Renewable energy credits (e) 48 30 30 142 250 Purchase obligations (f) 44 62 14 165 285 Total contractual commitments $ 1,279 $ 2,393 $ 1,953 $ 9,773 $ 15,398 (a) The long term debt matures at various dates through 2038 and bears interest principally at fixed rates. Interest on variable rate long term debt is determined by using average rates at December 31, 2009 (see Note 6). (b) The short term debt is primarily related to bank borrowings at Pinnacle West under its revolving line of credit (see Note 5). (c) Our purchased power and fuel commitments include purchases of coal, electricity, natural gas, renewable energy and nuclear fuel (see Notes 3 and 11). (d) Relates to the Palo Verde sale leaseback and other items (see Note 9). (e) Contracts to purchase renewable energy credits in compliance with the Renewable Energy Standard. (f) These contractual obligations include commitments for capital expenditures and other obligations. This table excludes $209 million in unrecognized tax benefits because the timing of the future cash outflows is uncertain. 63 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES In preparing the financial statements in accordance with GAAP, management must often make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements and during the reporting period. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and actual results could differ from those estimates. We consider the following accounting policies to be our most critical because of the uncertainties, judgments and complexities of the underlying accounting standards and operations involved. Regulatory Accounting Regulatory accounting allows for the actions of regulators, such as the ACC and the FERC, to be reflected in our financial statements. Their actions may cause us to capitalize costs that would otherwise be included as an expense in the current period by unregulated companies. Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that have been deferred because they are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent expected future costs that have already been collected from customers. Management continually assesses whether our regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory environment changes and recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction. This determination reflects the current political and regulatory climate in the state and is subject to change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the assets would be written off as a charge in current period earnings. We had $782 million of regulatory assets and $766 million of regulatory liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2009. Included in the balance of regulatory assets at December 31, 2009 is a regulatory asset of $532 million for pension and other postretirement benefits. This regulatory asset represents the future recovery of these costs through retail rates as these amounts are charged to earnings. If these costs are disallowed by the ACC, this regulatory asset would be charged to OCI and result in lower future earnings. See Notes 1 and 3 for more information. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Accounting Changes in our actuarial assumptions used in calculating our pension and other postretirement benefit liability and expense can have a significant impact on our earnings and financial position. The most relevant actuarial assumptions are the discount rate used to measure our liability and net periodic cost, the expected long term rate of return on plan assets used to estimate earnings on invested funds over the long term, and the assumed healthcare cost trend rates. We review these assumptions on an annual basis and adjust them as necessary. 64 Table of Contents The following chart reflects the sensitivities that a change in certain actuarial assumptions would have had on the December 31, 2009 reported pension liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and our 2009 reported pension expense, after consideration of amounts capitalized or billed to electric plant participants, on Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Statements of Income (dollars in millions): Increase (Decrease) Impact on Impact on Pension Pension Actuarial Assumption (a) Liability Expense Discount rate: Increase 1% $ (231 ) $ (7 ) Decrease 1% 260 10 Expected long term rate of return on plan assets: Increase 1% (7 ) Decrease 1% 7 (a) Each fluctuation assumes that the other assumptions of the calculation are held constant while the rates are changed by one percentage point. The following chart reflects the sensitivities that a change in certain actuarial assumptions would have had on the December 31, 2009 reported other postretirement benefit obligation on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and our 2009 reported other postretirement benefit expense, after consideration of amounts capitalized or billed to electric plant participants, on Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Statements of Income (dollars in millions): Increase (Decrease) Impact on Other Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Postretirement Actuarial Assumption (a) Obligation Benefit Expense Discount rate: Increase 1% $ (96 ) $ (5 ) Decrease 1% 111 5 Health care cost trend rate (b): Increase 1% 110 8 Decrease 1% (89 ) (7 ) Expected long term rate of return on plan assets pretax: Increase 1% (2 ) Decrease 1% 2 (a) Each fluctuation assumes that the other assumptions of the calculation are held constant while the rates are changed by one percentage point. (b) This assumes a 1% change in the initial and ultimate health care cost trend rate. See Note 8 for further details about our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. 65 Table of Contents Derivative Accounting Derivative accounting requires evaluation of rules that are complex and subject to varying interpretations. Our evaluation of these rules, as they apply to our contracts, determines whether we use accrual accounting (for contracts designated as normal) or fair value (mark to market) accounting. Mark to market accounting requires that changes in the fair value are recognized periodically in income unless certain hedge criteria are met. For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognized in common stock equity (as a component of other comprehensive income (loss)) and the ineffective portion is recognized in current earnings. See Market Risks Commodity Price Risk below for quantitative analysis. See Fair Value Measurements below for additional information on valuation. See Note 1 for discussion on accounting policies and Note 18 for a further discussion on derivative accounting. Fair Value Measurements We apply recurring fair value measurements to derivative instruments, nuclear decommissioning trusts, certain cash equivalents and plan assets held in our retirement and other benefit plans. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. We use inputs, or assumptions that market participants would use, to determine fair market value, and the significance of a particular input determines how the instrument is classified in the fair value hierarchy. We utilize valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The determination of fair value sometimes requires subjective and complex judgment. Our assessment of the inputs and the significance of a particular input to fair value measurement may affect the valuation of the instruments and their placement within the fair value hierarchy. Actual results could differ from our estimates of fair value. See Note 14 for further fair value measurement discussion, Note 1 for discussion on accounting policies and Note 18 for a further discussion on derivative accounting. Our nuclear decommissioning trusts invest in fixed income securities and equity securities. The fair values of these securities are based on observable inputs for identical or similar assets. See Note 12 for further discussion of our nuclear decommissioning trusts. Real Estate Investment Impairments We had real estate investments of $120 million and $3 million of home inventory on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2009. For purposes of evaluating impairment, in accordance with guidance on the impairment and disposal of long lived assets, we classify our real estate assets, such as land under development, land held for future development, and commercial property, as held and used. When events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of real estate assets considered held and used may not be recoverable, we compare the undiscounted cash flows that we estimate will be generated by each asset to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount exceeds the undiscounted cash flows, we adjust the asset to fair value and recognize an impairment charge. The adjusted value becomes the new book value (carrying amount) for held and used assets. We may have real estate assets classified as held and used with fair values that are lower than their carrying amounts, but are not deemed to be impaired because the undiscounted cash flows exceed the carrying amounts. 66 Table of Contents Real estate home inventory is considered to be held for sale for the purposes of evaluating impairment. Home inventories are reported at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. Fair value less cost to sell is evaluated each period to determine if it has changed. Losses (and gains not to exceed any cumulative loss previously recognized) are reported as adjustments to the carrying amount. We determine fair value for our real estate assets primarily based on the future cash flows that we estimate will be generated by each asset discounted for market risk. Our impairment assessments and fair value determinations require significant judgment regarding key assumptions such as future sales prices, future construction and land development costs, future sales timing, and discount rates. The assumptions are specific to each project and may vary among projects. The discount rates we used to determine fair values at December 31, 2009 ranged from 11% to 29%. Due to the judgment and assumptions applied in the estimation process, with regard to impairments, it is possible that actual results could differ from those estimates. If conditions in the broader economy or the real estate markets worsen, or as a result of a change in SunCors strategy, we may be required to record additional impairments. OTHER ACCOUNTING MATTERS See Note 2 for a discussion of recently adopted accounting standards and new standards to be adopted in the future. In June 2009, the FASB issued amended guidance on the consolidation of variable interest entities. The model for determining which enterprise has a controlling financial interest and is the primary beneficiary of a VIE has changed significantly under the new guidance. Previously, variable interest holders had to determine whether they had a controlling financial interest in a VIE based on a quantitative analysis of the expected gains and or losses of the entity. The new guidance requires an enterprise with a variable interest in a VIE to perform a qualitative assessment in determining whether it has a controlling financial interest in the entity, and if so, whether it is the primary beneficiary. Furthermore, the amended guidance requires companies to continually evaluate VIEs for consolidation. This guidance was effective for us on January 1, 2010. We are continuing to evaluate the impact this new guidance may have on our financial statements. MARKET AND CREDIT RISKS Market Risks Our operations include managing market risks related to changes in interest rates, commodity prices and investments held by our nuclear decommissioning trust fund. Interest Rate and Equity Risk We have exposure to changing interest rates. Changing interest rates will affect interest paid on variable rate debt and the market value of fixed income securities held by our nuclear decommissioning trust fund (see Note 12). The nuclear decommissioning trust fund also has risks associated with the changing market value of its investments. Nuclear decommissioning costs are recovered in regulated electricity prices. 67 Table of Contents The tables below present contractual balances of our consolidated long term and short term debt at the expected maturity dates as well as the fair value of those instruments on December 31, 2009 and 2008. The interest rates presented in the tables below represent the weighted average interest rates as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in thousands): Pinnacle West Consolidated Variable Rate Fixed Rate Short Term Debt Long Term Debt Long Term Debt Interest Interest Interest 2009 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount 2010 1.09 % $ 153,715 1.66 % $ 276,636 5.56 % $ 1,057 2011 2.00 % 39,967 6.23 % 576,228 2012 5.25 % 38 6.30 % 446,418 2013 5.25 % 1,774 5.75 % 32,234 2014 5.79 % 477,050 Years thereafter 6.48 % 1,804,000 Total $ 153,715 $ 318,415 $ 3,336,987 Fair value $ 153,715 $ 318,415 $ 3,463,960 Variable Rate Fixed Rate Short Term Debt Long Term Debt Long Term Debt Interest Interest Interest 2008 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount 2009 2.24 % $ 670,469 3.88 % $ 173,619 4.62 % $ 4,027 2010 3.99 % 2,042 5.66 % 1,137 2011 6.22 % 2,259 6.23 % 576,250 2012 6.00 % 16 6.50 % 376,338 2013 6.00 % 1,864 6.00 % 231 Years thereafter 8.30 % 539,145 5.64 % 1,540,229 Total $ 670,469 $ 718,945 $ 2,498,212 Fair value $ 670,469 $ 718,945 $ 2,107,635 68 Table of Contents The tables below present contractual balances of APS long term debt at the expected maturity dates as well as the fair value of those instruments on December 31, 2009 and 2008. The interest rates presented in the tables below represent the weighted average interest rates as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in thousands): APS Variable Rate Fixed Rate Short Term Debt Long Term Debt Long Term Debt Interest Interest Interest 2009 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount 2010 $ 0.25 % $ 196,170 5.60 % $ 1,006 2011 0.26 % 26,710 6.37 % 401,201 2012 6.30 % 446,398 2013 5.75 % 32,232 2014 5.79 % 477,050 Years thereafter 6.48 % 1,804,000 Total $ $ 222,880 $ 3,161,887 Fair value $ $ 222,880 $ 3,283,631 Variable Rate Fixed Rate Short Term Debt Long Term Debt Long Term Debt Interest Interest Interest 2008 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount 2009 2.09 % $ 521,684 $ 5.62 % $ 874 2010 5.60 % 1,012 2011 6.37 % 401,208 2012 6.50 % 376,325 2013 6.00 % 231 Years thereafter 8.30 % 539,145 5.64 % 1,540,229 Total $ 521,684 $ 539,145 $ 2,319,879 Fair value $ 521,684 $ 539,145 $ 1,935,160 Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the commodity price and transportation costs of electricity and natural gas. Our risk management committee, consisting of officers and key management personnel, oversees company wide energy risk management activities to ensure compliance with our stated energy risk management policies. We manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity instruments that qualify as derivatives, including exchange traded futures and options and over the counter forwards, options and swaps. As part of our risk management program, we use such instruments to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodities. 69 Table of Contents The following table shows the net pretax changes in mark to market of our derivative positions in 2009 and 2008 (dollars in millions): 2009 2008 Mark to market of net positions at beginning of year $ (282 ) $ 40 Recognized in earnings: Change in mark to market losses for future period deliveries (4 ) (4 ) Mark to market (gains) losses realized including ineffectiveness during the period 11 (5 ) Decrease (increase) in regulatory asset 76 (111 ) Recognized in OCI: Change in mark to market losses for future period deliveries (a) (155 ) (138 ) Mark to market (gains) losses realized during the period 185 (64 ) Change in valuation techniques Mark to market of net positions at end of year $ (169 ) $ (282 ) (a) The changes in mark to market recorded in OCI are due primarily to changes in forward natural gas prices. The table below shows the fair value of maturities of our derivative contracts (dollars in millions) at December 31, 2009 by maturities and by the type of valuation that is performed to calculate the fair values. See Note 1, Derivative Accounting and Fair Value Measurements, for more discussion of our valuation methods. Total Years fair Source of Fair Value 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter value Prices actively quoted $ (13 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (13 ) Prices provided by other external sources (76 ) (59 ) (11 ) (146 ) Prices based on models and other valuation methods (4 ) (1 ) 3 (2 ) (2 ) (4 ) (10 ) Total by maturity $ (93 ) $ (60 ) $ (8 ) $ (2 ) $ (2 ) $ (4 ) $ (169 ) 70 Table of Contents The table below shows the impact that hypothetical price movements of 10% would have on the market value of our risk management assets and liabilities included on Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in millions): December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Gain (Loss) Gain (Loss) Price Up 10% Price Down 10% Price Up 10% Price Down 10% Mark to market changes reported in: Earnings Electricity $ 1 $ (1 ) $ 2 $ (2 ) Natural gas 1 (1 ) 3 (3 ) Regulatory asset (liability) or OCI (a) Electricity 21 (21 ) 20 (20 ) Natural gas 59 (59 ) 64 (64 ) Total $ 82 $ (82 ) $ 89 $ (89 ) (a) These contracts are hedges of our forecasted purchases of natural gas and electricity. The impact of these hypothetical price movements would substantially offset the impact that these same price movements would have on the physical exposures being hedged. To the extent the amounts are eligible for inclusion in the PSA, the amounts are recorded as either a regulatory asset or liability. Credit Risk We are exposed to losses in the event of non performance or non payment by counterparties. See Note 18 for a discussion of our credit valuation adjustment policy. ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Regulatory Matters See Note 3 for information about rate matters affecting APS. Operating Results 2009 Compared with 2008 APS net income for 2009 was $251 million, compared with net income of $262 million for the comparable prior year period. APS net income decreased approximately $11 million from the prior year period primarily due to lower retail sales resulting from lower usage per customer; higher interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs; higher depreciation and amortization expenses; and the absence of income tax benefits related to prior years recorded in 2008. These negative factors were partially offset by increased revenues due to the interim rate increase effective January 1, 2009 and transmission rate increases. 71 Table of Contents The following table presents net income compared with the prior year period: Increase Year Ended (Decrease) December 31, in Net 2009 2008 Income (dollars in millions) Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses $ 1,971 $ 1,844 $ 127 Operations and maintenance (853 ) (787 ) (66 ) Depreciation and amortization (399 ) (383 ) (16 ) Taxes other than income taxes (122 ) (124 ) 2 Other income (expenses), net (8 ) (25 ) 17 Interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs (185 ) (155 ) (30 ) Income taxes (153 ) (108 ) (45 ) Net Income $ 251 $ 262 $ (11 ) 72 Table of Contents Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses Electric operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses were $127 million higher for 2009 compared with the prior year period. The following table describes the major components of this change: Increase (Decrease) Purchased Operating power and fuel revenues expenses Net change (dollars in millions) Higher renewable energy and demand side management surcharges (substantially offset in operations and maintenance expense) $ 63 $ $ 63 Interim retail rate increases effective January 1, 2009 61 61 Transmission rate increases 21 21 Increased mark to market valuations of fuel and purchased power contracts related to favorable changes in market prices, net of related PSA deferrals (18 ) 18 Effects of weather on retail sales, primarily due to hotter weather in the third quarter of 2009 12 3 9 Lower retail sales primarily due to lower usage per customer, including the effects of the Companys energy efficiency programs, but excluding the effects of weather (58 ) (26 ) (32 ) Higher fuel and purchased power costs including the effects of lower off system sales, net of related PSA deferrals (30 ) (19 ) (11 ) Lower retail revenues related to recovery of PSA deferrals, offset by lower amortization of the same amount recorded as fuel and purchased power expense (see Note 3) (36 ) (36 ) Miscellaneous items, net (17 ) (15 ) (2 ) Total $ 16 $ (111 ) $ 127 Operations and maintenance Operations and maintenance expenses increased $66 million for 2009 compared with the prior year period primarily because of: An increase of $62 million related to renewable energy and demand side management programs, which are offset in operating revenues; An increase of $29 million in generation costs, including more planned maintenance, partially offset by lower costs at Palo Verde due to cost efficiency measures; and A decrease of $25 million associated with cost saving measures and other factors, including the absence of employee severance costs in 2009. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $16 million for 2009 compared with the prior year period primarily because of increases in utility plant in service. The increases in utility plant in service are the result of various improvements to APS existing fossil and nuclear generating plants and distribution and transmission infrastructure additions and upgrades. 73 Table of Contents Interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs Interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs increased $30 million for 2009 compared with the prior year period primarily because of higher debt balances, partially offset by the effects of lower interest rates (see discussion related to APS debt issuances in Pinnacle West Consolidated Liquidity and Capital Resources above). Interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs are comprised of the line items interest expense, capitalized interest and allowance for equity funds used during construction from the APS Statements of Income. Other income (expenses), net Other income (expenses), net improved $17 million for 2009 compared with the prior year period primarily because of improved investment gains. Other income (expenses), net is comprised of the line items other income and other expense from the APS Statements of Income. Income taxes Income taxes were $45 million higher for 2009 compared with the prior year period primarily because of $29 million of income tax benefits related to prior years recorded in 2008 and higher pretax income. See Note S 1. Operating Results 2008 Compared with 2007 APS net income for the year ended 2008 was $262 million, compared with net income of $284 million for the comparable prior year period. The decrease in net income was primarily due to higher operations and maintenance expenses; lower retail sales due to the effects of weather; higher depreciation and amortization expenses; and higher interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs. These negative factors were partially offset by increased revenues due to the rate increase effective July 1, 2007; transmission rate increases; and income tax benefits related to prior years recorded in 2008. 74 Table of Contents The following table presents net income compared with the prior year period: Increase Year Ended (Decrease) December 31, in Net 2008 2007 Income (dollars in millions) Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses $ 1,844 $ 1,785 $ 59 Operations and maintenance (787 ) (710 ) (77 ) Depreciation and amortization (383 ) (365 ) (18 ) Taxes other than income taxes (124 ) (128 ) 4 Other income (expenses), net (25 ) (5 ) (20 ) Interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs (155 ) (142 ) (13 ) Income taxes (108 ) (151 ) 43 Net income $ 262 $ 284 $ (22 ) 75 Table of Contents Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses Electric operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses were $59 million higher for the year ended 2008 compared with the prior year. The following table describes the major components of this change: Increase (Decrease) Purchased Operating power and fuel revenues expenses Net change (dollars in millions) Retail rate increases effective July 1, 2007 $ 156 $ $ 156 Deferred fuel and purchased power costs related to higher base fuel rate 141 (141 ) Transmission rate increases 31 31 Higher retail sales primarily due to customer growth partially offset by lower usage per customer, but excluding the effects of weather 29 8 21 Higher renewable energy surcharge (substantially offset in operations and maintenance expense) 14 14 Regulatory disallowance in 2007 (14 ) 14 Revenues related to long term traditional wholesale contracts 26 14 12 Higher fuel and purchased power costs including the effects of lower off system sales, net of related PSA deferrals 38 41 (3 ) Lower mark to market valuations of fuel and purchased power contracts related to changes in market prices, net of related PSA deferrals 14 (14 ) Effects of weather on retail sales (63 ) (20 ) (43 ) Lower retail revenues related to recovery of PSA deferrals, offset by lower amortization of the same amount recorded as fuel and purchased power expense (see Note 3) (47 ) (47 ) Miscellaneous items, net 13 1 12 Total $ 197 $ 138 $ 59 Operations and maintenance Operations and maintenance expenses increased $77 million for the year ended 2008 compared with the prior year primarily because of: An increase of $30 million related to customer service and other costs including distribution system reliability; An increase of $18 million in generation costs, including more planned maintenance; An increase of $14 million related to renewable energy programs, which are offset in operating revenues; An increase of $9 million associated with employee severance costs in 2008; and An increase of $6 million due to other miscellaneous factors. 76 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $18 million for the year ended 2008 compared with the prior year primarily because of increases in utility plant in service. The increases in utility plant in service are the result of various improvements to APS existing fossil and nuclear generating plants and distribution and transmission infrastructure additions and upgrades. Interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs Interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs increased $13 million for the year ended 2008 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher rates on certain APS pollution control bonds and higher short term debt balances. Interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs, are comprised of the line items interest expense, capitalized interest and allowance for equity funds used during construction from the APS Statements of Income. Other income (expenses), net Other income (expenses), net reduced earnings by an additional $20 million for the year ended 2008 compared with the prior year primarily because of lower interest income. Other income (expenses), net is comprised of the line items other income and other expense from the APS Statements of Income. Income taxes Income taxes were $43 million lower for the year ended 2008 compared with the prior year primarily because of $18 million of increased income tax benefits related to prior years resolved in 2008 and 2007. See Note S 1. ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows The following table presents APS net cash provided by (used for) operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (dollars in millions): 2009 2008 2007 Net cash flow provided by operating activities $ 959 $ 785 $ 766 Net cash flow used for investing activities (738 ) (879 ) (881 ) Net cash flow provided by (used for) financing activities (172 ) 114 86 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 49 $ 20 $ (29 ) 2009 Compared with 2008 The increase of approximately $174 million in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to a reduction of collateral and margin cash required as a result of changes in commodity prices. The decrease of approximately $141 million in net cash used for investing activities is primarily due to lower levels of capital expenditures net of contributions. The increase of approximately $286 million in net cash used for financing activities is primarily due to repayments of short term borrowings partially offset by APS issuance of $500 million of unsecured senior notes (see Note 6). 77 Table of Contents 2008 Compared with 2007 The increase of approximately $19 million in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to lower current income taxes and increased retail revenue related to higher Base Fuel Rates, partially offset by increased collateral and margin cash provided as a result of changes in commodity prices. The decrease of approximately $2 million in net cash used for investing activities is primarily due to lower levels of capital expenditures (see table and discussion above) and increased contributions in aid of construction related to changes in 2008 in our line extension policy (see Note 3), substantially offset by lower cash proceeds from the net sales and purchases of investment securities. The increase of approximately $28 million in net cash provided by financing activities is primarily due to higher levels of short term borrowings, partially offset by decreased equity infusions from Pinnacle West and the repurchase of pollution control bonds (see Note 6). Liquidity For a discussion of APS capital requirements and liquidity, see APS under Pinnacle West Consolidated Liquidity and Capital Resources. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes contractual requirements for APS as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in millions): 2011 2013 There 2010 2012 2014 after Total Long term debt payments, including interest (a) $ 397 $ 1,233 $ 785 $ 2,835 $ 5,250 Purchased power and fuel commitments (b) 444 687 947 6,397 8,475 Operating lease payments (c) 70 131 120 63 384 Nuclear decommissioning funding requirements 24 49 49 161 283 Renewable energy credits (d) 48 30 30 142 250 Purchase obligations (e) 44 62 14 165 285 Total contractual commitments $ 1,027 $ 2,192 $ 1,945 $ 9,763 $ 14,927 (a) The long term debt matures at various dates through 2038 and bears interest principally at fixed rates. Interest on variable rate long term debt is determined by using average rates at December 31, 2009 (see Note 6). (b) APS purchased power and fuel commitments include purchases of coal, electricity, natural gas, renewable energy and nuclear fuel (see Notes 3 and 11). (c) Relates to the Palo Verde sale leaseback and other items (see Note 9). (d) Contracts to purchase renewable energy credits in compliance with the Renewable Energy Standard. (e) These contractual obligations include commitments for capital expenditures and other obligations. This table excludes $208 million in unrecognized tax benefits because the timing of the future cash outflows is uncertain. 78 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK See Market and Credit Risks in Item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 79 Table of Contents 
 
