Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, these factors include, but are not limited to: our ability to achieve timely and adequate rate recovery of our costs, including returns on debt and equity capital; our ability to manage capital expenditures and other costs while maintaining reliability and customer service levels; variations in demand for electricity, including those due to weather, the general economy, customer and sales growth (or decline), and the effects of energy conservation measures and distributed generation; power plant performance and outages; volatile fuel and purchased power costs; fuel and water supply availability; regulatory and judicial decisions, developments and proceedings; new legislation or regulation, including those relating to greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy mandates and energy efficiency standards; our ability to meet renewable energy requirements and recover related costs; risks inherent in the operation of nuclear facilities, including spent fuel disposal uncertainty; competition in retail and wholesale power markets; the duration and severity of the economic decline in Arizona and current real estate market conditions; the cost of debt and equity capital and the ability to access capital markets when required; changes to our credit ratings; the investment performance of the assets of our nuclear decommissioning trust, pension, and other postretirement benefit plans and the resulting impact on future funding requirements; the liquidity of wholesale power markets and the use of derivative contracts in our business; potential shortfalls in insurance coverage; new accounting requirements or new interpretations of existing requirements; generation, transmission and distribution facility and system conditions and operating costs; the ability to meet the anticipated future need for additional baseload generation and associated transmission facilities in our region; the willingness or ability of our counterparties, power plant participants and power plant land owners to meet contractual or other obligations or extend the rights for continued power plant operations; technological developments affecting the electric industry; and restrictions on dividends or other burdensome provisions in our credit agreements and ACC orders. These and other factors are discussed in Risk Factors described in Item 1A of this report, which readers should review carefully before placing any reliance on our financial statements or disclosures. Neither Pinnacle West nor APS assumes any obligation to update these statements, even if our internal estimates change, except as required by law. 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Pinnacle West Pinnacle West is a holding company that conducts business through its subsidiaries. We derive substantially all of our revenues and earnings from our wholly owned subsidiary, APS. APS is a vertically integrated electric utility that provides either retail or wholesale electric service to most of the State of Arizona, with the major exceptions of about one half of the Phoenix metropolitan area, the Tucson metropolitan area and Mohave County in northwestern Arizona. Year Ended December 31, Operating Revenues (in thousands): 2010 2009 2008 APS $ 3,180,807 $ 3,149,500 $ 3,133,496 Percentage of Pinnacle West Consolidated 97 % 99 % 97 % Pinnacle Wests other first tier subsidiaries are SunCor, APSES and El Dorado. Additional information related to these businesses is provided later in this report. Our reportable business segment is our regulated electricity segment, which consists of traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electric service to Native Load customers) and related activities, and includes electricity generation, transmission and distribution. In 2009 our real estate subsidiary, SunCor, began disposing of its homebuilding operations, master planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order to reduce its outstanding debt (see Note 23). All of SunCors operations are reflected as discontinued operations. As a result, the real estate segment is no longer a reportable segment. See Note 17 for financial information of our business segments. BUSINESS OF ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY APS currently provides electric service to approximately 1.1 million customers. We own or lease more than 6,290 MW of regulated generation capacity and we hold a mix of both long term and short term purchased power agreements for additional capacity, including a variety of agreements for the purchase of renewable energy. During 2010, no single purchaser or user of energy accounted for more than 1.2% of our electric revenues. 3 Table of Contents The following map shows APSs retail service territory, including the locations of its generating facilities and principal transmission lines. 4 Table of Contents Energy Sources and Resource Planning To serve its customers, APS obtains power through its various generation stations and through purchased power agreements. Resource planning is an important function necessary to meet Arizonas future energy needs. APSs sources of energy by fuel type during 2010 were as follows: Generation Facilities APS has ownership interests in or leases the coal, nuclear, gas, oil and solar generating facilities described below. For additional information regarding these facilities, see Item 2. Coal Fueled Generating Facilities Four Corners Four Corners is a 5 unit coal fired power plant located in the northwestern corner of New Mexico. APS operates the plant and owns 100% of Four Corners Units 1, 2 and 3 and 15% of Units 4 and 5. APS has a total entitlement from Four Corners of 791 MW. The Four Corners plant site is leased from the Navajo Nation and is also subject to an easement from the federal government. APS purchases all of Four Corners coal requirements from a supplier with a long term lease of coal reserves with the Navajo Nation. The Four Corners coal contract runs through 2016. On November 8, 2010, APS and Southern California Edison (SCE) entered into an asset purchase agreement providing for the purchase by APS of SCEs 48% interest in each of Units 4 and 5 of Four Corners. If consummated, APS would acquire 739 MW from SCE unless any of the other owners of interests in Units 4 and 5 exercise their rights of first refusal prior to March 8, 2011, in which case APS would not be able to purchase SCEs entire share of the Units. Completion of the purchase by APS, which is expected to occur in the second half of 2012, is conditioned upon the receipt of regulatory approvals from the ACC, the California Public Utilities Commission and the FERC, the execution of a new coal supply contract for a lease renewal period described below, expiration of the waiting period under the Hart Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and other typical closing conditions. 5 Table of Contents APS, on behalf of the Four Corners participants, has negotiated amendments to an existing facility lease with the Navajo Nation which would extend the Four Corners leasehold interest to 2041. Execution by the Navajo Nation of the lease amendments is a condition to closing of the purchase by APS of SCEs interests in Four Corners. The execution of these amendments by the Navajo Nation requires the approval of the Navajo Nation Council, which occurred on February 15, 2011 and is awaiting final signature by the Nations President. The effectiveness of the amendments also requires the approval of the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI), as does a related Federal rights of way grant which the Four Corners participants will pursue. A Federal environmental review will be conducted as part of the DOI review process. APS has announced that, if APSs purchase of SCEs interests in Units 4 and 5 at Four Corners is consummated, it will close Units 1, 2 and 3 at the plant. These events will change the plants overall generating capacity from 2,100 MW to 1,540 MW and APSs entitlement from the plant from 791 MW to 970 MW. Cholla Cholla is a 4 unit coal fired power plant located in northeastern Arizona. APS operates the plant and owns 100% of Cholla Units 1, 2 and 3. PacifiCorp owns Cholla Unit 4, and APS operates that Unit for PacifiCorp. APS has a total entitlement from Cholla of 647 MW. APS purchases all of Chollas coal requirements from a coal supplier that mines all of the coal under long term leases of coal reserves with the federal government and private landholders. The Cholla coal contract runs through 2024. APS has the ability under the contract to reduce its annual coal commitment and purchase a portion of Chollas coal requirements on the spot market to take advantage of competitive pricing options and to purchase coal required for increased operating capacity. APS believes that the current fuel contracts and competitive fuel supply options ensure the continued operation of Cholla for its useful life. In addition, APS has a long term coal transportation contract. Navajo Generating Station The Navajo Plant is a 3 unit coal fired power plant located in northern Arizona. Salt River Project operates the plant and APS owns a 14% interest in Navajo Units 1, 2 and 3. APS has a total entitlement from the Navajo Plant of 315 MW. The Navajo Plants coal requirements are purchased from a supplier with long term leases from the Navajo Nation and the Hopi Tribe. The Navajo Plant is under contract with its coal supplier through 2011, with options to extend through 2019. The Navajo Plant site is leased from the Navajo Nation and is also subject to an easement from the federal government. These coal plants face uncertainties related to existing and potential legislation and regulation that could significantly impact their economics and operations. See Environmental Matters below and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Capital Expenditures in Item 7 for environmental and climate change developments and lease renewal negotiations with the Navajo Nation impacting these coal facilities. See Note 11 for information regarding APSs coal mine reclamation obligations. Nuclear Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station Palo Verde is a nuclear power plant located about 50 miles west of Phoenix, Arizona. APS operates the plant and owns 29.1% of Palo Verde Units 1 and 3 and about 17% of Unit 2. In addition, APS leases about 12.1% of Unit 2, resulting in a 29.1% combined interest in that Unit. APS has a total entitlement from Palo Verde of 1,146 MW. 6 Table of Contents Palo Verde Leases In 1986, APS entered into agreements with three separate lessor trust entities in order to sell and lease back about 42% of its share of Palo Verde Unit 2 and certain common facilities. Prior to 2010, APS accounted for these arrangements as operating leases. Due to amended VIE accounting guidance, in 2010 APS began consolidating the lessor trust entities, and eliminated lease accounting for these transactions. The agreements have terms of 29.5 years and contain options to renew the leases or to purchase the property for fair market value at the end of the lease terms. APS must give notice to the respective lessor trusts between December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2012 if it wishes to exercise, or not exercise, either of these options. We are analyzing these options. See Note 20 for additional information regarding the Palo Verde Unit 2 sale leaseback transactions. Palo Verde Operating Licenses Operation of each of the three Palo Verde Units requires an operating license from the NRC. The NRC issued full power operating licenses for Unit 1 in June 1985, Unit 2 in April 1986 and Unit 3 in November 1987. The full power operating licenses, each valid for a period of 40 years, authorize APS, as operating agent for Palo Verde, to operate the three Palo Verde Units. On December 15, 2008, APS applied for renewed operating licenses for the Palo Verde Units for a period of 20 years beyond the expirations of the current licenses. The current NRC schedule for the applications estimates that a final NRC decision will be issued in April 2011. APS is making preparations to secure resources necessary to operate the plant for the period of extended operation, including the execution in April 2010 of a Municipal Effluent Purchase and Sale Agreement that provides effluent water rights necessary for cooling purposes at Palo Verde through 2050. Palo Verde Fuel Cycle The fuel cycle for Palo Verde is comprised of the following stages: mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates; conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride; enrichment of uranium hexafluoride; fabrication of fuel assemblies; utilization of fuel assemblies in reactors; and storage and disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The Palo Verde participants are continually identifying their future nuclear fuel resource needs and negotiating arrangements to fill those needs. The Palo Verde participants have contracted for all of Palo Verdes requirements for uranium concentrates through 2011 and 95% of its requirements through 2017. A new contract is currently being negotiated that will cover Palo Verdes remaining requirements for uranium concentrates through 2017. The participants have also contracted for all of Palo Verdes conversion services through 2018, all of Palo Verdes enrichment services through 2020 and all of Palo Verdes fuel assembly fabrication services through 2016. Spent Nuclear Fuel and Waste Disposal The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (NWPA) required the DOE to accept, transport, and dispose of spent nuclear fuel and high level waste generated by the nations nuclear power plants by 1998. The DOEs obligations are reflected in a Contract for Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel and or High Level Radioactive Waste (Standard Contract) with each nuclear power plant. The DOE failed to begin accepting Palo Verdes spent nuclear fuel by 1998, and APS (on behalf of itself and the other Palo Verde participants) filed a lawsuit for DOEs breach of the Palo Verde Standard Contract in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. The Court of Federal Claims ruled in favor of APS and in October 2010 awarded $30.2 million in damages to the Palo Verde participants for costs incurred through December 2006. 7 Table of Contents The DOE had planned to meet its NWPA and Standard Contract disposal obligations by designing, licensing, constructing, and operating a permanent geologic repository at Yucca Mountain, Nevada. In June 2008, DOE submitted its application to the NRC to authorize construction of the Yucca Mountain repository. In March 2010, the DOE filed a motion to dismiss with prejudice its Yucca Mountain construction authorization application that was pending before the NRC. Several interested parties have intervened in the NRC proceeding, and the proceeding has not been conclusively decided by the NRC or the courts. Additionally, a number of interested parties have filed a variety of lawsuits in different jurisdictions around the country challenging the DOEs authority to withdraw the Yucca Mountain construction authorization application. None of these lawsuits have been conclusively decided by the courts. Palo Verde has sufficient capacity at its on site independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI) to store all of the nuclear fuel that will be irradiated during the initial operating license period, which ends in December 2027. Additionally, Palo Verde has sufficient capacity at its on site ISFSI to store a portion of the fuel that will be irradiated during the period of extended operation, which ends in December 2047 (assuming the NRC approves APSs request for renewed operating licenses, as discussed above). If uncertainties regarding the United States governments obligation to accept and store spent fuel are not favorably resolved, APS will evaluate alternative storage solutions that may obviate the need to expand the ISFSI to accommodate all of the fuel that will be irradiated during the period of extended operation. In addition to the spent fuel stored at Palo Verdes on site ISFSI, Palo Verde also generates certain types of low level radioactive waste that are stored on site. Currently, the Class B and Class C waste (the higher radioactivity of the low level wastes) is stored on site since industry access to a disposal site was eliminated several years ago. The NRC is considering regulations that would allow the industry to eliminate much of this waste by blending it with lower level Class A waste so that it can be disposed of at a facility such as the one Palo Verde utilizes in Utah. Nuclear Decommissioning Costs APS currently relies on an external sinking fund mechanism to meet the NRC financial assurance requirements for decommissioning its interests in Palo Verde Units 1, 2 and 3. The decommissioning costs of Palo Verde Units 1, 2 and 3 are currently included in APSs ACC jurisdictional rates. Decommissioning costs are recoverable through a non bypassable system benefits charge (one paid by all retail customers taking service from the APS system), which allows APS to maintain its external sinking fund mechanism. See Note 12 for additional information about APSs nuclear decommissioning costs. Palo Verde Liability and Insurance Matters See Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station Nuclear Insurance in Note 11 for a discussion of the insurance maintained by the Palo Verde participants, including APS, for Palo Verde. Natural Gas and Oil Fueled Generating Facilities APS has six natural gas power plants located throughout Arizona, consisting of Redhawk, located near the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station; Ocotillo, located in Tempe; Sundance, located in Coolidge; West Phoenix, located in southwest Phoenix; Saguaro, located north of Tucson; and Yucca, located near Yuma. Several of the units at Saguaro and Yucca run on either gas or oil. APS has one oil only power plant, Douglas, located in the town of Douglas, Arizona. APS owns and operates each of these plants with the exception of one combustion turbine unit and one steam unit at Yucca that are operated by APS and owned by the Imperial Irrigation District. APS has a total entitlement from these plants of 3,389 MW. Gas for these plants is acquired through APSs hedging program. APS has long term gas transportation agreements with three different companies, some of which are effective through 2024. Fuel oil is acquired under short term purchases delivered primarily to West Phoenix, where it is distributed to APSs other oil power plants by truck. 8 Table of Contents Solar Facilities APS owns and operates more than sixty small solar systems around the state. Together they have the capacity to produce about 5 MW of renewable energy. This fleet of solar systems includes a 3 MW facility located at the Prescott Airport, a 1 MW facility located at APSs Saguaro power plant and less than 1 MW of solar photovoltaic distributed energy systems installed as part of the Community Power Project in Flagstaff, Arizona. The Community Power Project, approved by the ACC on April 1, 2010, is a pilot program through which, upon completion, APS will own, operate and receive energy from approximately 1.5 MW of solar photovoltaic distributed energy systems located within a certain test area in Flagstaff, Arizona. Purchased Power Contracts In addition to its own available generating capacity, APS purchases electricity under various arrangements, including long term contracts and purchases through short term markets to supplement its owned or leased generation and hedge its energy requirements. A substantial portion of APSs purchased power expense is netted against wholesale sales on the Consolidated Statements of Income. (See Note 18.) APS continually assesses its need for additional capacity resources to assure system reliability. APS does not expect to require new conventional generation sources sooner than 2017, due primarily to planned additions of renewable resources and energy efficiency initiatives. Purchased Power Capacity APSs purchased power capacity under long term contracts, including its renewable energy portfolio, is summarized in the tables below. All capacity values are based on net capacity unless otherwise noted. Type Dates Available Capacity (MW) Purchase Agreement (a) Year round through December 2014 104 Purchase Agreement (b) Year round through June 14, 2020 60 Exchange Agreement (c) May 15 to September 15 annually through 2020 480 Tolling Agreement Year round through May 2017 500 Tolling Agreement Summer seasons through October 2019 560 Day Ahead Call Option Agreement Summer seasons through September 2015 500 Day Ahead Call Option Agreement Summer seasons through summer 2016 150 Demand Response Agreement (d) Summer seasons through 2024 100 Renewable Energy (e) Various 223 (a) The capacity under this agreement varies by month, with a maximum capacity of 104 MW. (b) Up to 60 MW of capacity is available; however, the amount of electricity available to APS under this agreement is based in large part on customer demand and is adjusted annually. 9 Table of Contents (c) This is a seasonal capacity exchange agreement under which APS receives electricity during the summer peak season (from May 15 to September 15) and APS returns a like amount of electricity during the winter season (from October 15 to February 15). (d) The capacity under this agreement increases in phases over the first three years to reach the 100 MW level by the summer of 2012. (e) Renewable energy purchased power agreements are described in detail below under Current and Future Resources Renewable Energy Standard Renewable Energy Portfolio. Current and Future Resources Current Demand and Reserve Margin Electric power demand is generally seasonal. In Arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months. APSs 2010 peak one hour demand on its electric system was recorded on July 15, 2010 at 6,936 MW, compared to the 2009 peak of 7,218 MW recorded on July 27, 2009. APSs operable generating capacity, together with firm purchases totaling 2,974 MW, including short term seasonal purchases and unit contingent purchases, resulted in an actual reserve margin, at the time of the 2010 peak demand, of 21.8%. The power actually available to APS from its resources fluctuates from time to time due in part to planned and unplanned plant and transmission outages. Future Resources and Resource Plan Under the ACCs modified resource planning rule, APS will file by April 1st of each even year its resource plans for the next fifteen year period. The ACCs modified rule also requires APS to file its first resource plan within 120 days after the rule becomes effective. The modified rule became effective in January 2011 and APS will likely file a resource plan in the first quarter of 2011. The modified rule also requires the ACC to issue an order with its acknowledgment of APSs resource plan within approximately ten months following its submittal. The ACCs acknowledgment of APSs resource plan will consider factors such as the total cost of electric energy services, demand management, analysis of supply side options, system reliability and risk management. 10 Table of Contents Renewable Energy Standard In 2006, the ACC adopted the RES. Under the RES, electric utilities that are regulated by the ACC must supply an increasing percentage of their retail electric energy sales from eligible renewable resources, including solar, wind, biomass, biogas and geothermal technologies. The renewable energy requirement is 3% of retail electric sales in 2011 and increases annually until it reaches 15% in 2025. In APSs 2009 retail rate case settlement agreement, APS committed to have 1,700 GWh of new renewable resources in service by year end 2015 in addition to its 2008 renewable resource commitments. Taken together, APSs commitment is estimated to be 3,400 GWh, or approximately 10% of retail sales, by year end 2015, which is double the existing RES target of 5% for that year. (See Note 3.) A component of the RES is focused on stimulating development of distributed energy systems (generally speaking, small scale renewable technologies that are located on customers properties). Accordingly, under the RES, an increasing percentage of that requirement must be supplied from distributed energy resources. This distributed energy requirement is 25% of the overall RES requirement of 3% in 2011 and increases to 30% of the applicable RES requirement in 2012 and subsequent years. The following table summarizes these requirement standards and their timing: 2011 2015 2020 2025 RES as a % of retail electric sales 3 % 5 % 10 % 15 % Percent of RES to be supplied from distributed energy resources 25 % 30 % 30 % 30 % Renewable Energy Portfolio. APS has a diverse portfolio of existing and planned renewable resources totaling 875 MW, including wind, geothermal, solar, biomass and biogas. Of this portfolio, 288 MW are currently in operation and 587 MW are under contract for development or are under construction. Renewable resources in operation include 5 MW of facilities owned by APS, 223 MW of long term purchased power agreements, and an estimated 60 MW of customer sited, third party owned distributed energy resources. APS continues to actively consider opportunities to enhance its renewable energy portfolio, both to ensure its compliance with the RES and to meet the needs of its customer base. APSs strategy to achieve its RES requirements includes executing purchased power contracts for new facilities, ongoing development of distributed energy resources and procurement of new facilities to be owned by APS. One of the key programs under which APS will own solar resources is the AZ Sun Program. As approved by the ACC, the AZ Sun Program will allow APS to own 100 MW of solar photovoltaic power plants across Arizona by investing up to $500 million through 2014. Under this program to date, APS has executed contracts for the development of 83 MW of new solar generation, representing an investment commitment of approximately $377 million. See Note 3 for additional details about the AZ Sun Program, including the related cost recovery. The following table summarizes APSs renewable energy sources in operation and under development. Agreements for the development and completion of future resources are subject to various conditions, including successful siting, permitting and interconnection of the projects to the electric grid. 11 Table of Contents Actual/ Net Net Capacity Target Capacity Planned/ Commercial In Under Operation Term Operation Development Location Date (Years) (MW) (MW) APS Owned Solar: AZ Sun Program: Paloma Gila Bend, AZ 2011 17 Cotton Center Gila Bend, AZ 2011 17 Hyder Phase 1 Hyder, AZ 2011 11 Hyder Phase 2 Hyder, AZ 2012 5 Chino Valley Chino Valley, AZ 2012 19 Luke AFB Glendale, AZ 2012/2013 (a) 14 Subtotal AZ Sun Program (b) 83 Multiple Facilities AZ Various 5 Total APS Owned 5 83 Purchased Power Agreements Solar: Solana (c) Gila Bend, AZ 2013 30 250 RE Ajo Ajo, AZ 2011 25 5 Sun E AZ 1 Prescott, AZ 2011 30 10 Solar 1 (d) Tonopah, AZ 2012 30 15 Wind: Aragonne Mesa Santa Rosa, NM 2006 20 90 High Lonesome Mountainair, NM 2009 30 100 Perrin Ranch Wind Williams, AZ 2011 25 99 Geothermal: Salton Sea Imperial County, CA 2006 23 10 Biomass: Snowflake Snowflake, AZ 2008 15 10 Snowflake Snowflake, AZ 2008 1 10 Biogas: Glendale Landfill Glendale, AZ 2010 20 3 Landfill 1 (d) Surprise, AZ 2012 20 3 Total Purchased Power Agreements 223 382 Distributed Energy Solar: APS Owned (e) AZ various 1 Third party Owned (f) AZ various 60 66 Agreement 1 Bagdad, AZ 2012 25 15 Agreement 2 (g) AZ 2012 2014 20 25 40 Total Distributed Energy 60 122 Total Renewable Portfolio 288 587 (a) The timing is dependent on site preparation activities. (b) Under the AZ Sun Program, 17 MW remains to be fulfilled. (c) Represents contracted capacity. (d) Details of these agreements have not yet been publicly announced. (e) Reflects Community Power Project. See Note 3. (f) Achieved through incentive based programs. Includes resources with production based incentives that have terms of 10 20 years. (g) Agreement ramps up to 40 MW over 3 years. 12 Table of Contents Demand Side Management Arizona regulators are placing an increased focus on energy efficiency and other demand side management programs to encourage customers to conserve energy, while incentivizing utilities to aid in these efforts that ultimately reduce the demand for energy. In December 2009, the ACC initiated Energy Efficiency rulemaking, with a proposed Energy Efficiency Standard of 22% cumulative annual energy savings by 2020. This standard was adopted and became effective on January 1, 2011. This ambitious standard will likely impact Arizonas future energy resource needs. (See Note 3 for energy efficiency and other demand side management obligations resulting from APSs 2009 retail rate case settlement.) Economic Stimulus Projects Through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), the Federal government made a number of programs available for utilities to develop renewable resources, improve reliability and create jobs by using economic stimulus funding. Certain programs are also available through the State of Arizona. In 2009, the DOE announced an ARRA commitment to fund the majority of a carbon dioxide emission reduction research and development project in the amount of $71 million, which was to be located at our Cholla power plant. Due to the increased resource and funding requirements for a project of that size, APS elected not to move forward with that award and is now in the process of closing out the project. However, APS is moving forward with work under the $3 million award from DOE for a high penetration photovoltaic generation study related to the Community Power Project in Flagstaff, Arizona. The funding under this DOE award will continue to be contingent upon meeting certain project milestones, including DOE established budget parameters, over the next four years. APS is also continuing its work as a sub recipient under an ARRA award received through the State of Arizonas Department of Commerce. This approximately $4 million award is for the implementation of various distributed energy and energy efficiency programs in Arizona. APS will be implementing certain solar water heater and photovoltaic related community projects under this award. Competitive Environment and Regulatory Oversight Retail The ACC regulates APSs retail electric rates and its issuance of securities. The ACC must also approve any transfer or encumbrance of APSs property used to provide retail electric service and approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between Pinnacle West, APS and their respective affiliates. 13 Table of Contents APS is subject to varying degrees of competition from other investor owned electric and gas utilities in Arizona (such as Southwest Gas Corporation), as well as cooperatives, municipalities, electrical districts and similar types of governmental or non profit organizations. In addition, some customers, particularly industrial and large commercial customers, may own and operate generation facilities to meet some or all of their own energy requirements. This practice is becoming more popular with customers installing or having installed products such as roof top solar panels to meet or supplement their energy needs. In 1999, the ACC approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in Arizona. As a result, as of January 1, 2001, all of APSs retail customers were eligible to choose alternate energy suppliers. However, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to APSs customers. In 2000, the Arizona Superior Court found that the rules were in part unconstitutional and in other respects unlawful, the latter finding being primarily on procedural grounds, and invalidated all ACC orders authorizing competitive electric services providers to operate in Arizona. In 2004, the Arizona Court of Appeals invalidated some, but not all of the rules and upheld the invalidation of the orders authorizing competitive electric service providers. In 2005, the Arizona Supreme Court declined to review the Court of Appeals decision. To date, the ACC has taken no further or substantive action on either the rules or the prior orders authorizing competitive electric service providers in response to the final Court of Appeals decision. In 2008, the ACC directed the ACC staff to investigate whether such retail competition was in the public interest and what legal impediments remain to competition in light of the Court of Appeals decision referenced above. The ACC staffs report on the results of its investigation was issued on August 12, 2010. The report stated that additional analysis, discussion and study of all aspects of the issue are required in order to perform a proper evaluation. While the report did not make any specific recommendations other than to conduct more workshops, the report did state that the current retail electric competition rules are incomplete and in need of modification. On April 14, 2010, the ACC issued a decision holding that solar vendors that install and operate solar facilities for non profit schools and governments pursuant to a specific type of contract that calculates payments based on the energy produced are not public service corporations under the Arizona Constitution, and are therefore not regulated by the ACC. A second matter is pending with the ACC to determine whether that ruling should extend to solar providers who serve a broader customer base under the same business model. Use of such products by customers within our territory would result in some level of competition. APS cannot predict when, and the extent to which, additional electric service providers will enter or re enter APSs service territory. 14 Table of Contents Wholesale The FERC regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services. (See Note 3 for information regarding APSs transmission rates.) During 2010, approximately 5.8% of APSs electric operating revenues resulted from such sales and services. APSs wholesale activity primarily consists of managing fuel and purchased power supplies to serve retail customer energy requirements. APS also sells, in the wholesale market, its generation output that is not needed for APSs Native Load and, in doing so, competes with other utilities, power marketers and independent power producers. Additionally, subject to specified parameters, APS markets, hedges and trades in electricity and fuels. Environmental Matters Climate Change Legislative Initiatives. In the past several years, the United States Congress has considered bills that would regulate domestic greenhouse gas emissions. In 2009, the House of Representatives passed a comprehensive energy and climate change bill, but the Senate did not consider it or a similar bill in the 111th Congress. With much focus on the economy, it is unclear when Congress will consider another global warming bill. The actual economic and operational impact of any legislation on APS depends on a variety of factors, none of which can be fully known until such legislation passes and the specifics of the resulting program are established. These factors include the terms of the legislation with regard to allowed emissions; whether any permitted emissions allowances will be allocated to source operators free of cost or auctioned; the cost to reduce emissions or buy allowances in the marketplace; and the availability of offsets and mitigating factors to moderate the costs of compliance. At the present time, we cannot predict what form of legislation, if any, will ultimately pass. In addition to federal legislative initiatives, state specific initiatives may also impact our business. While Arizona has not yet enacted any state specific legislation regarding greenhouse gas emissions, the California legislature enacted AB 32 and SB 1368 in 2006 to address greenhouse gas emissions. In December 2010, the California Air Resources Board approved regulations that will establish a cap and trade program for greenhouse gas emissions which is scheduled to be launched in 2012 as part of the states program implementing AB32. In addition, the New Mexico Environmental Improvement Board recently enacted a greenhouse gas cap and trade program and emissions cap, to become effective in 2012 and 2013, respectively. We are monitoring these and other state legislative developments to understand the extent to which they may affect our business, including our sales into the impacted states or the ability of our out of state power plant participants to continue their participation in certain coal fired power plants. In particular, SCE, a participant in Four Corners, has indicated that SB 1368 may prohibit it from making emission control expenditures at the plant. (See Energy Sources and Resource Planning Generation Facilities Coal Fueled Generating Facilities Four Corners above for details of the pending sale of SCEs interest in Four Corners to APS.) 15 Table of Contents Regulatory Initiatives. In December 2009, the EPA determined that greenhouse gas emissions endanger public health and welfare. This determination was made in response to a 2007 United States Supreme Court ruling that greenhouse gases fit within the Clean Air Acts broad definition of air pollutant and, as a result, the EPA has the authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions of new motor vehicles under the Clean Air Act. As a result of the endangerment finding, the EPA determined that the Clean Air Act required new regulatory requirements for new and modified major greenhouse gas emitting sources, including power plants. On June 3, 2010, the EPA issued a rule under the Clean Air Act, known as the tailoring rule, establishing new greenhouse gas emissions thresholds that determine when sources, including power plants, must obtain air operating permits or New Source Review permits. New Source Review is a pre construction permitting program under the Clean Air Act that requires analysis of pollution controls prior to building a new stationary source or making major modifications to an existing stationary source. The tailoring rule became effective on August 2, 2010 and it became applicable to power plants on January 2, 2011. Several groups have filed lawsuits challenging the EPAs endangerment finding and the tailoring rule. APS does not expect the tailoring rule to have a significant impact on its current operations. The rule will require APS to consider the impact of greenhouse gas emissions as part of its traditional New Source Review analysis for new sources and major modifications to existing plants. At the present time, we cannot predict what other rules or regulations may ultimately result from the EPAs endangerment finding, whether the parties challenging the endangerment finding or the tailoring rule will be successful, and what impact other potential rules or regulations will have on APSs operations. On December 30, 2010, pursuant to its authority under the Clean Air Act, the EPA finalized a greenhouse gas Federal Implementation Plan (FIP) for Arizona relating to pre construction permits for construction of new sources or major modifications of existing sources. As a result of this action, effective January 2, 2011, the EPA assumed responsibility for acting on permit applications for only the greenhouse gas portion of such pre construction permits. State permitting authorities will continue to retain responsibility for the remaining parts of pre construction permits that are unrelated to emissions of greenhouse gasses. To the extent Arizona seeks and receives from the EPA a delegation of permitting authority for greenhouse gas emissions, the state will assume responsibility for issuing both the greenhouse gas and non greenhouse gas portions of pre construction permits. The greenhouse gas FIP will remain in place until such time as the EPA approves a State Implementation Plan that applies pre construction permit requirements to greenhouse gas emitting stationary sources in Arizona. APS does not expect the greenhouse gas FIP to have a significant impact on its current operations. The EPA also recently announced its intent to promulgate New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) for greenhouse gas emissions from certain industrial facilities, under the Clean Air Act. The EPA intends to propose the new standards by July 2011 and to finalize them by May 2012. The EPA has indicated that the rules will apply to coal fired electric generating units (EGUs) and will establish NSPS for new and modified EGUs and emission guidelines for existing EGUs. The rules are expected to apply to the Four Corners, Cholla and the Navajo Plant. We cannot currently predict the impact of these rules on APSs operations. If any emission reduction legislation or additional regulations are enacted, we will assess our compliance alternatives, which may include replacement of existing equipment, installation of additional pollution control equipment, purchase of allowances, retirement or suspension of operations at certain coal fired facilities, or other actions. Although associated capital expenditures or operating costs resulting from greenhouse gas emission regulations or legislation could be material, we believe that we would be able to recover the costs of these environmental compliance initiatives through our rates. 16 Table of Contents Regional Initiative. In 2007, six western states (Arizona, California, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah and Washington) and two Canadian provinces (British Columbia and Manitoba) entered into an accord, the Western Climate Initiative (WCI), to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from automobiles and certain industries, including utilities. Montana, Quebec and Ontario have also joined WCI. WCI participants set a goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions 15% below 2005 levels by 2020. After soliciting public comment, in September 2008 WCI issued the design of a cap and trade program for greenhouse gas emissions. Due in part to the recent activity at the federal level discussed above, the initiatives momentum and the movement toward detailed proposed rules has slowed. On February 2, 2010, Arizonas Governor issued an executive order stating that Arizona will continue to be a member of WCI to monitor its advancements in this area, but it will not implement the WCI regional cap and trade program. As a result, while we continue to monitor the progress of WCI, at the present time we do not believe it will have a material impact on our operations. Company Response to Climate Change Initiatives. We have undertaken a number of initiatives to address emission concerns, including renewable energy procurement and development, promotion of programs and rates that promote energy conservation, renewable energy use and energy efficiency. (See Energy Sources and Resource Planning Current and Future Resources above for details of these plans and initiatives.) APS currently has a diverse portfolio of renewable resources, including wind, geothermal, solar and biomass and we are focused on increasing the percentage of our energy that is produced by renewable resources. In January 2008, APS joined the Climate Registry as a Founding Reporter. Founding Reporters are companies that voluntarily joined the non profit organization before May 2008 to measure and report greenhouse gas emissions in a common, accurate and transparent manner consistent across industry sectors and borders. Beginning in 2010, APS stopped participating in the Climate Registry because APS began reporting substantially the same information under the mandatory greenhouse gas reporting rule issued by the EPA on September 22, 2009. Pinnacle West prepares an annual Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on our website (www.pinnaclewest.com). The report provides information related to the Company and its approach to sustainability and its workplace and environmental performance. The information on Pinnacle Wests website, including the Corporate Responsibility Report, is not incorporated by reference into this report. Climate Change Lawsuits. In February 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina, Alaska filed a lawsuit in federal court in the Northern District of California against nine oil companies, fourteen power companies (including Pinnacle West), and a coal company, alleging that the defendants emissions of carbon dioxide contribute to global warming and constitute a public and private nuisance. The plaintiffs also allege that the effects of global warming will require the relocation of the village and they are seeking an unspecified amount of monetary damages. In June 2008, the defendants filed motions to dismiss the action, which were granted. The plaintiffs filed an appeal with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in November 2009, and Pinnacle West filed its reply on June 30, 2010. The court has not yet scheduled oral arguments on the plaintiffs appeal. We believe the action is without merit and intend to continue to defend against the claims. A similar nuisance lawsuit, American Electric Power Co., Inc. v. Connecticut, is currently pending in the United States Supreme Court. Another such lawsuit was dismissed by the Fifth Circuit on procedural grounds. Both cases, as well as the Kivalina case, raise political and legal considerations, including whether the courts can or should be making climate change policy decisions. The outcome of the American Electric Power case is particularly significant because the issues being considered by the Supreme Court closely overlap with the main issues presented in the Kivalina appeal. We are not a party to either of these two lawsuits, but are monitoring these developments and their potential industry impacts. 17 Table of Contents EPA Environmental Regulation Regional Haze Rules. Over a decade ago, the EPA announced regional haze rules to reduce visibility impairment in national parks and wilderness areas. The rules require states (or, for sources located on tribal land, the EPA) to determine what pollution control technologies constitute the best available retrofit technology (BART) for certain older major stationary sources. The EPA subsequently issued the Clean Air Visibility Rule, which provides guidelines on how to perform a BART analysis. Cholla. In 2007, ADEQ required APS to perform a BART analysis for Cholla pursuant to the Clean Air Visibility Rule. APS completed the BART analysis for Cholla and submitted its BART recommendations to ADEQ on February 4, 2008. The recommendations include the installation of certain pollution control equipment that APS believes constitutes BART. ADEQ has reviewed APSs recommendations and is expected to submit to EPA Region 9 its proposed BART State Implementation Plan (SIP) for Cholla and other sources within the state in the near future. On January 19, 2011, a group of environmental organizations notified EPA of its intent to sue the agency as a result of EPAs alleged failure to promulgate a Federal Implementation Plan for states that have not yet submitted all or part of the required BART SIPs, including Arizona. Once APS receives a final determination as to what constitutes BART for Cholla, we will have five years to complete the installation of the equipment and to achieve the emission limits established by ADEQ. However, in order to coordinate with the plants other scheduled activities, APS is currently implementing portions of its recommended plan for Cholla on a voluntary basis. Costs related to the implementation of these portions of our recommended plan are included in our environmental expenditure estimates (see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Expenditures in Item 7). Four Corners and the Navajo Plant. EPA Region 9 previously requested that APS, as the operating agent for Four Corners, and SRP, as the operating agent for the Navajo Plant, perform a BART analysis for Four Corners and the Navajo Plant, respectively. APS and SRP each submitted an analysis to the EPA concluding that certain combustion control equipment constitutes BART for these plants. Based on the analyses and comments received through EPAs rulemaking process, the EPA will determine what it believes constitutes BART for each plant. On October 6, 2010, the EPA issued its proposed BART determination for Four Corners. The proposed rule would require the installation of post combustion controls on each of Units 1 5 at Four Corners to reduce nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions. Current estimates indicate that APSs total costs for these controls could be up to approximately $400 million for Four Corners. If APSs purchase of SCEs interest in Units 4 and 5 is consummated and Units 1 3 are closed, APSs total costs for these controls would be approximately $300 million. (See Energy Sources and Resource Planning Generation Facilities Coal Fueled Generating Facilities Four Corners for details of this proposed transaction.) The EPA also indicated in the proposal that it may require the installation of electrostatic precipitators or baghouses on Units 1, 2 and 3 to reduce particulate matter emissions. APS estimates that its total costs for such particulate removal equipment is approximately $220 million, which may also be required under the anticipated mercury rules. (See Environmental Matters Mercury and Other Hazardous Air Pollutants below for additional information on these anticipated rules.) The EPA proposed a 10% stack opacity limitation for all five units and a 20% opacity limitation on certain fugitive dust emissions, although the proposed fugitive dust provision is unrelated to BART. 18 Table of Contents On November 24, 2010, APS submitted a letter to the EPA proposing an alternative to the EPAs October BART proposal. Specifically, APS proposed to close Four Corners Units 1, 2 and 3 by 2014 and to install post combustion pollution controls for NOx on Units 4 and 5 by the end of 2018, provided that the EPA agrees to a contemporaneous resolution of Four Corners obligations or liability, if any, under the regional haze and reasonably attributable visibility impairment programs, the New Source Review program, and NSPS programs of the Clean Air Act. On February 10, 2011, the EPA signed a Supplemental Notice Requesting Comment, related to the BART rulemaking for Four Corners. In the Supplemental Notice, the EPA proposed to find that a different alternative emission control strategy, based upon APSs November 2010 proposal, would achieve more progress than the EPAs October 2010 BART proposal. The Supplemental Notice proposes that Units 1, 2 and 3 would close by 2014, post combustion pollution controls for NOx would be installed on Units 4 and 5 by July 31, 2018, and the NOx emission limitation for Units 4 and 5 would be 0.098 lbs/MMBtu, rather than the 0.11 lbs/MMBtu proposed by the EPA in October 2010. The EPA extended the comment deadline for both the October 2010 proposal and the Supplemental Notice to May 2, 2011. We are currently evaluating both proposals and will be providing comments to the EPA on both. The EPA has not yet issued a proposed rule for the Navajo Plant. SRPs recommended plan for the Navajo Plant includes the installation of combustion control equipment, with an estimated cost to APS of approximately $6 million based on APSs Navajo Plant ownership interest. If the EPA determines that post combustion controls are required, APSs total costs could be up to approximately $93 million for the Navajo Plant. The Four Corners and the Navajo Plant participants will have five years after the EPA issues its final determinations to achieve compliance with their respective BART requirements. In addition, on February 16, 2010, a group of environmental organizations filed a petition with the Departments of Interior and Agriculture requesting those agencies to certify to the EPA that visibility impairment in sixteen national park and wilderness areas is reasonably attributable to emissions from Four Corners, the Navajo Plant and other non APS plants. If the agencies certify impairment, the EPA is required to evaluate and, if necessary, determine BART for Four Corners and the Navajo Plant under a different haze program known as Reasonably Attributable Visibility Impairment. On January 19, 2011, a similar group of environmental organizations filed a lawsuit against the Departments of Interior and Agriculture, alleging among other things that the agencies failed to act on the February 2010 petition without unreasonable delay and requesting the court to order the agencies to act on the petition within 30 days. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this lawsuit on APS. The Four Corners and Navajo Plant participants obligations to comply with the EPAs final BART determinations, coupled with the financial impact of future climate change legislation, other environmental regulations, the result of the lawsuit mentioned above and other business considerations, could jeopardize the economic viability of these plants or the ability of individual participants to continue their participation in these plants. In order to coordinate with each plants other scheduled activities, the plants are currently implementing portions of their recommended plans described above on a voluntary basis. APSs share of the costs related to the implementation of these portions of the recommended plans are included in our environmental expenditure estimates (see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Expenditures in Item 7). 19 Table of Contents Mercury and other Hazardous Air Pollutants. In early 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit vacated the Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR), which was adopted by the EPA to regulate mercury emissions from coal fired power plants. As a result, the law in effect prior to the adoption of the CAMR became the applicable law, and the EPA is now required to adopt final maximum achievable control technology emissions (MACT) standards. Under a consent decree that was finalized on April 15, 2010, the EPA has agreed to issue final MACT standards for mercury and other hazardous air pollutants by November 2011. Under the terms of the consent decree, APS will have three years after the EPA issues its final rule to achieve compliance, which would likely require APS to install additional pollution control equipment. APS has installed, and continues to install, certain of the equipment necessary to meet the anticipated standards. APS estimates that the cost for equipment necessary to meet these anticipated standards is approximately $220 million for Four Corners Units 1 3 and $89 million for Cholla Units 1 3. The estimated costs for Four Corners Units 1 3 are not included in our current environmental expenditure estimates since our estimates assume the consummation of APSs purchase of SCEs interest in Four Corners Units 4 and 5 and the subsequent shut down of Units 1 3. Chollas estimated costs for the next three years are included in our environmental expenditure estimates. (See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Expenditures in Item 7 for details of our capital expenditure estimates). Coal Combustion Waste. On June 21, 2010, the EPA released its proposed regulations governing the handling and disposal of coal combustion residuals (CCRs), such as fly ash and bottom ash. APS currently disposes of CCRs in ash ponds and dry storage areas at Cholla and Four Corners, and also sells a portion of its fly ash for beneficial reuse as a constituent in concrete production. The EPA proposes regulating CCRs as either non hazardous waste or hazardous waste and requested comments on three different alternatives. The hazardous waste proposal would phase out the use of ash ponds for disposal of CCRs. The other two proposals regulate CCRs as non hazardous waste and impose performance standards for ash disposal. One of these proposals would require retrofitting or closure of currently unlined ash ponds, while the other proposal would not require the installation of liners or pond closures. The EPA has not yet indicated a preference for any of the alternatives. APS filed comments on the proposed rule during the public comment period, which ended on November 19, 2010. We do not know when the EPA will issue a final rule, including required compliance dates. We cannot currently predict the outcome of the EPAs actions or whether such actions will have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards. In March 2008, the EPA adopted new, more stringent eight hour ozone standards, known as national ambient air quality standards or NAAQS. In January 2010, the EPA proposed to adopt even more stringent eight hour ozone NAAQS. As ozone standards become more stringent, our fossil generation units may come under increasing pressure to reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides and volatile organic compounds and or to generate emission offsets for new projects or facility expansions. At this time, APS is unable to predict what impact the adoption of these standards may have on its operations. 20 Table of Contents New Source Review. On April 6, 2009, APS received a request from the EPA under Section 114 of the Clean Air Act seeking detailed information regarding projects at and operations of Four Corners. This request is part of an enforcement initiative that the EPA has undertaken under the Clean Air Act. The EPA has taken the position that many utilities have made certain physical or operational changes at their plants that should have triggered additional regulatory requirements under the New Source Review provisions of the Clean Air Act. Other electric utilities have received and responded to similar Section 114 requests, and several of them have been the subject of notices of violation and lawsuits by the EPA. APS responded to the EPAs request in August 2009 and is currently unable to predict the timing or content of the EPAs response, if any, or any resulting actions. On May 7, 2010, APS received a Notice of Intent to Sue from Earthjustice, on behalf of several environmental organizations, related to alleged violations of the Clean Air Act at Four Corners (the Notice). The Notice alleges New Source Review related violations and NSPS violations. Under the Clean Air Act, a citizens group is required to provide 60 days advance notice of its intent to file a lawsuit. Within that 60 day time period, the EPA may step in and file a lawsuit regarding the allegations. If the EPA does so, the citizens group is precluded from filing its own lawsuit, but it may still intervene in the EPAs lawsuit, if it so desires. The 60 day period lapsed in early July 2010, and the EPA did not take any action. At this time, we cannot predict whether or when Earthjustice might file a lawsuit. Endangered Species Act. On January 30, 2011, the Center for Biological Diversity, Dine Citizens Against Running Our Environment, and San Juan Citizens Alliance field a lawsuit against the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSM) and the Department of the Interior, alleging that OSM failed to engage in mandatory Endangered Species Act (ESA) consultation with the Fish and Wildlife Service prior to authorizing the renewal of an operating permit for the mine that serves Four Corners. The lawsuit alleges that activities at the mine, including mining and the disposal of coal combustion residue, will adversely affect several endangered species and their critical habitats. The lawsuit requests the court to vacate and remand the mining permit and enjoin all activities carried out under the permit until OSM has complied with the ESA. Although we are not a party to the lawsuit, we are evaluating the lawsuit to determine its potential impact on plant operations. Superfund. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund) establishes liability for the cleanup of hazardous substances found contaminating the soil, water or air. Those who generated, transported or disposed of hazardous substances at a contaminated site are among those who are PRPs. PRPs may be strictly, and often are jointly and severally, liable for clean up. On September 3, 2003, the EPA advised APS that the EPA considers APS to be a PRP in the Motorola 52nd Street Superfund Site, Operable Unit 3 (OU3) in Phoenix, Arizona. APS has facilities that are within this Superfund site. APS and Pinnacle West have agreed with the EPA to perform certain investigative activities of the APS facilities within OU3. In addition, on September 23, 2009, APS agreed with the EPA and one other PRP to voluntarily assist with the funding and management of the site wide groundwater remedial investigation and feasibility study work plan. APS estimates that its costs related to this investigation and study will be approximately $1 million, which is reserved as a liability on its financial statements. We anticipate incurring additional expenditures in the future, but because the overall investigation is not complete and ultimate remediation requirements are not yet finalized, at the present time we cannot accurately estimate our total expenditures. By letter dated April 25, 2008, the EPA informed APS that it may be a PRP in the Gila River Indian Reservation Superfund Site in Maricopa County, Arizona. APS, along with three other electric utility companies, owns a parcel of property on which a transmission pole and a portion of a transmission line are located. The property abuts the Gila River Indian Community boundary and, at one time, may have been part of an airfield where crop dusting took place. Currently, the EPA is only seeking payment from APS and four other PRPs for past cleanup related costs involving contamination from the crop dusting. Based upon the total amount of cleanup costs reported by the EPA in its letter to APS, we do not expect that the resolution of this matter will have a material adverse impact on APSs financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Manufactured Gas Plant Sites. Certain properties which APS now owns or which were previously owned by it or its corporate predecessors were at one time sites of, or sites associated with, manufactured gas plants. APS is taking action to voluntarily remediate these sites. APS does not expect these matters to have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations, cash flows or liquidity. 21 Table of Contents Navajo Nation Environmental Issues Four Corners and the Navajo Plant are located on the Navajo Reservation and are held under easements granted by the federal government as well as leases from the Navajo Nation. See Energy Sources and Resource Planning Generation Facilities Coal Fueled Generating Facilities above for additional information regarding these plants. In July 1995, the Navajo Nation enacted the Navajo Nation Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, the Navajo Nation Safe Drinking Water Act and the Navajo Nation Pesticide Act (collectively, the Navajo Acts). The Navajo Acts purport to give the Navajo Nation Environmental Protection Agency authority to promulgate regulations covering air quality, drinking water and pesticide activities, including those activities that occur at Four Corners and the Navajo Plant. On October 17, 1995, the Four Corners participants and the Navajo Plant participants each filed a lawsuit in the District Court of the Navajo Nation, Window Rock District, challenging the applicability of the Navajo Acts as to Four Corners and the Navajo Plant. The Court has stayed these proceedings pursuant to a request by the parties, and the parties are seeking to negotiate a settlement. In April 2000, the Navajo Nation Council approved operating permit regulations under the Navajo Nation Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act. APS believes the Navajo Nation exceeded its authority when it adopted the operating permit regulations. On July 12, 2000, the Four Corners participants and the Navajo Plant participants each filed a petition with the Navajo Supreme Court for review of these regulations. Those proceedings have been stayed, pending the settlement negotiations mentioned above. APS cannot currently predict the outcome of this matter. On May 18, 2005, APS, Salt River Project, as the operating agent for the Navajo Plant, and the Navajo Nation executed a Voluntary Compliance Agreement to resolve their disputes regarding the Navajo Nation Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act. As a result of this agreement, APS sought, and the courts granted, dismissal of the pending litigation in the Navajo Nation Supreme Court and the Navajo Nation District Court, to the extent the claims relate to the Clean Air Act. The agreement does not address or resolve any dispute relating to other Navajo Acts. APS cannot currently predict the outcome of this matter. Water Supply Assured supplies of water are important for APSs generating plants. At the present time, APS has adequate water to meet its needs. However, the Four Corners region, in which Four Corners is located, has been experiencing drought conditions that may affect the water supply for the plants if adequate moisture is not received in the watershed that supplies the area. APS is continuing to work with area stakeholders to implement agreements to minimize the effect, if any, on future operations of the plant. The effect of the drought cannot be fully assessed at this time, and APS cannot predict the ultimate outcome, if any, of the drought or whether the drought will adversely affect the amount of power available, or the price thereof, from Four Corners. Conflicting claims to limited amounts of water in the southwestern United States have resulted in numerous court actions, which, in addition to future supply conditions, have the potential to impact APS operations. 22 Table of Contents San Juan River Adjudication. Both groundwater and surface water in areas important to APSs operations have been the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings, which will require a number of years to resolve. APS is one of a number of parties in a proceeding, filed March 13, 1975, before the Eleventh Judicial District Court in New Mexico to adjudicate rights to a stream system from which water for Four Corners is derived. An agreement reached with the Navajo Nation in 1985, however, provides that if Four Corners loses a portion of its rights in the adjudication, the Navajo Nation will provide, for an agreed upon cost, sufficient water from its allocation to offset the loss. Gila River Adjudication. A summons served on APS in early 1986 required all water claimants in the Lower Gila River Watershed in Arizona to assert any claims to water on or before January 20, 1987, in an action pending in Maricopa County, Arizona, Superior Court. Palo Verde is located within the geographic area subject to the summons. APSs rights and the rights of the other Palo Verde participants to the use of groundwater and effluent at Palo Verde are potentially at issue in this action. As operating agent of Palo Verde, APS filed claims that dispute the courts jurisdiction over the Palo Verde participants groundwater rights and their contractual rights to effluent relating to Palo Verde. Alternatively, APS seeks confirmation of such rights. Five of APSs other power plants are also located within the geographic area subject to the summons. APSs claims dispute the courts jurisdiction over its groundwater rights with respect to these plants. Alternatively, APS seeks confirmation of such rights. In November 1999, the Arizona Supreme Court issued a decision confirming that certain groundwater rights may be available to the federal government and Indian tribes. In addition, in September 2000, the Arizona Supreme Court issued a decision affirming the lower courts criteria for resolving groundwater claims. Litigation on both of these issues has continued in the trial court. In December 2005, APS and other parties filed a petition with the Arizona Supreme Court requesting interlocutory review of a September 2005 trial court order regarding procedures for determining whether groundwater pumping is affecting surface water rights. The Court denied the petition in May 2007, and the trial court is now proceeding with implementation of its 2005 order. No trial date concerning APSs water rights claims has been set in this matter. Little Colorado River Adjudication. APS has also filed claims to water in the Little Colorado River Watershed in Arizona in an action pending in the Apache County, Arizona, Superior Court, which was originally filed on September 5, 1985. APSs groundwater resource utilized at Cholla is within the geographic area subject to the adjudication and, therefore, is potentially at issue in the case. APSs claims dispute the courts jurisdiction over its groundwater rights. Alternatively, APS seeks confirmation of such rights. A number of parties are in the process of settlement negotiations with respect to certain claims in this matter. Other claims have been identified as ready for litigation in motions filed with the court. No trial date concerning APSs water rights claims has been set in this matter. Although the above matters remain subject to further evaluation, APS does not expect that the described litigation will have a material adverse impact on its financial position, results of operations, cash flows or liquidity. BUSINESS OF OTHER SUBSIDIARIES The operations of our other first tier subsidiaries (described below) are not expected to contribute in any material way to our future financial performance nor will they require any material amounts of capital over the next three years. 23 Table of Contents APSES APSES provides energy related products and services (such as energy master planning, energy use consultation and facility audits, cogeneration analysis and installation, and project management) with a focus on energy efficiency and renewable energy to commercial and industrial retail customers in the western United States. On June 22, 2010, APSES sold its district cooling business consisting of operations in downtown Phoenix, Tucson, and on certain Arizona State University campuses. This sale resulted in an after tax gain of approximately $25 million. Financial Summary. 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in millions) Net income (loss) $ 30 $ (2 ) $ (1 ) Total assets at December 31 $ 43 $ 74 $ 70 SunCor SunCor was a developer of residential, commercial and industrial real estate projects in Arizona, Idaho, New Mexico and Utah. Due to the continuing distressed conditions in the real estate markets, in 2009 SunCor undertook a program to dispose of its homebuilding operations, master planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order to eliminate its outstanding debt. Financial Summary. 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in millions) Revenues (a) $ 102 $ 158 $ 242 Net loss attributable to common shareholders (b) $ (9 ) $ (279 ) $ (26 ) Total assets at December 31 (c) $ 16 $ 166 $ 547 (a) All reported as discontinued operations on Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Statements of Income. (See Note 22). (b) These amounts include $266 million (pre tax) and $53 million (pre tax) real estate impairment charges for 2009 and 2008, respectively. (c) The reduction in assets in 2010 is primarily due to asset sales. The $16 million of assets at December 31, 2010 consists primarily of $8 million of intercompany receivables, $3 million of assets held for sale and $5 million of other assets. In 2010 and 2009, income tax benefits related to SunCor operations were recorded by Pinnacle West in accordance with an intercompany tax sharing agreement. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Other Subsidiaries SunCor in Item 7 for a discussion of SunCors long term debt, liquidity and capital requirements, and the SunCor related risk factor in Item 1A for a discussion of risks facing SunCor. 24 Table of Contents El Dorado El Dorado owns minority interests in several energy related investments and Arizona community based ventures. El Dorados short term goal is to prudently realize the value of its existing investments. On a long term basis, Pinnacle West may use El Dorado, when appropriate, for investments that are strategic to the business of generating, distributing and marketing electricity. Financial Summary. 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in millions) Net income (loss) $ 2 $ (7 ) $ (10 ) Total assets at December 31 $ 19 $ 19 $ 28 Income taxes related to El Dorado are recorded by Pinnacle West. OTHER INFORMATION Pinnacle West, APS and Pinnacle Wests other first tier subsidiaries are all incorporated in the State of Arizona. Additional information for each of these companies is provided below: Approximate Number of Principal Executive Office Year of Employees at Address Incorporation December 31, 2010 Pinnacle West 400 North Fifth Street Phoenix, AZ 85004 1985 80 APS 400 North Fifth Street P.O. Box 53999 Phoenix, AZ 85072 3999 1920 6,600 APSES 60 E. Rio Salado ParkwaySuite 1001 Tempe, AZ 85281 1998 50 SunCor 80 East Rio Salado Parkway Suite 410 Tempe, AZ 85281 1965 10 El Dorado 400 North Fifth Street Phoenix, AZ 85004 1983 Total 6,740 The APS number includes employees at jointly owned generating facilities (approximately 3,100 employees) for which APS serves as the generating facility manager. Approximately 1,940 APS employees are union employees. The collective bargaining agreement with union employees in the fossil generation, energy delivery and customer service business areas expires in April 2011, and the parties began negotiating a successor agreement in February 2011. The agreement with union employees serving as Palo Verde security officers expires in 2013. 25 Table of Contents WHERE TO FIND MORE INFORMATION We use our website www.pinnaclewest.com as a channel of distribution for material Company information. The following filings are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC: Annual Reports on Form 10 K, definitive proxy statements for our annual shareholder meetings, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K and all amendments to those reports. Our board and committee charters, Code of Ethics for Financial Executives, Ethics Policy and Standards of Business Practices and other corporate governance information is also available on the Pinnacle West website. Pinnacle West will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics for Financial Executives and Ethics Policy and Standards of Business Practices, and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange, on its website. The information on Pinnacle Wests website is not incorporated by reference into this report. You can request a copy of these documents, excluding exhibits, by contacting Pinnacle West at the following address: Pinnacle West Capital Corporation, Office of the Secretary, Station 9068, P.O. Box 53999, Phoenix, Arizona 85072 3999 (telephone 602 250 3252). 26 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results. Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to Pinnacle West and its subsidiaries, including APS. REGULATORY RISKS Our financial condition depends upon APSs ability to recover costs in a timely manner from customers through regulated rates and otherwise execute its business strategy. APS is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence its business, liquidity, results of operations and its ability to fully recover costs from utility customers in a timely manner. The ACC regulates APSs retail electric rates and the FERC regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services. The profitability of APS is affected by the rates it may charge. Consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of any APS retail rate proceedings and ancillary matters which may come before the ACC and the FERC. Arizona, like certain other states, has a statute that allows the ACC to reopen prior decisions and modify final orders under certain circumstances. The ACC must also approve APSs issuance of securities and any transfer of APS property used to provide retail electric service, and must approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, APS and our respective affiliates. Decisions made by the ACC and the FERC could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. APSs ability to conduct its business operations and avoid fines and penalties depends upon compliance with federal, state or local statutes and regulations, and obtaining and maintaining certain regulatory permits, approvals and certificates. APS must comply in good faith with all applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, and orders of agencies that regulate APSs business, including the FERC, the NRC, the EPA and state and local governmental agencies. These agencies regulate many aspects of APSs utility operations, including safety and performance, emissions, siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that APS can charge retail and wholesale customers. Failure to comply can subject APS to, among other things, fines and penalties. For example, under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the FERC can impose penalties (up to one million dollars per day per violation) for failure to comply with mandatory electric reliability standards. In addition, APS is required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies. APS believes the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that APSs business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. However, changes in regulations or the imposition of new or revised laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We are also unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from pending or future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. The operation of APSs nuclear power plant exposes it to substantial regulatory oversight and potentially significant liabilities and capital expenditures. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has the authority to impose monetary civil penalties or a progressively increased inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut down of a unit, or both, depending upon the NRCs assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. The increased costs resulting from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny and implementation of plans to achieve compliance with NRC requirements may adversely affect APSs financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. APS is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, and changes in, or liabilities under, existing or new laws or regulations may increase APSs cost of operations or impact its business plans. APS is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom ash, fly ash and air pollution control wastes. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. These laws and regulations generally require APS to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals. If there is a delay or failure to obtain any required environmental regulatory approval, or if APS fails to obtain, maintain or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to additional expenses. In addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in civil liability or criminal penalties. Both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. APS cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. 27 Table of Contents Environmental Clean Up. APS has been named as a PRP for a Superfund site in Phoenix, Arizona and it could be named a PRP in the future for other environmental clean up at sites identified by a regulatory body. APS cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean up costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. Regional Haze. APS is currently awaiting a final rulemaking from the EPA that could impose new requirements on Four Corners and the Navajo Plant. APS is also awaiting a final rulemaking from ADEQ that could impose new requirements on Cholla. The EPA and ADEQ will require these plants to install pollution control equipment that constitutes the best available retrofit technology to lessen the impacts of emissions on visibility surrounding the plants. Depending upon the agencies final determinations of what constitutes BART for these plants, the financial impact of installing the required pollution control equipment could jeopardize the economic viability of the plants or the ability of individual participants to continue their participation in these plants. Coal Ash. The EPA released proposed regulations governing the disposal of CCRs, which are generated as a result of burning coal and consist of, among other things, fly ash and bottom ash. The EPA proposed regulating CCRs as either non hazardous or hazardous waste. APS currently disposes of CCRs in ash ponds and dry storage areas at Four Corners and Cholla, and also sells a portion of its fly ash for beneficial reuse as a constituent in concrete products. If the EPA regulates CCRs as a hazardous solid waste or phases out APSs ability to dispose of CCRs through the use of ash ponds, APS could incur significant costs for CCR disposal and may be unable to continue its sale of fly ash for beneficial reuse. New Source Review. The EPA has taken the position that many projects electric utilities have performed are major modifications that trigger New Source Review requirements under the Clean Air Act. The utilities generally have taken the position that these projects are routine maintenance and did not result in emissions increases, and thus are not subject to New Source Review. In 2009, APS received and responded to a request from the EPA regarding projects and operations of Four Corners. A civilian organization notified the Four Corners participants that it intends to file a citizen suit against the participants for alleged violations of New Source Review and the NSPS program of the Clean Air Act. If the EPA seeks to impose New Source Review requirements at Four Corners or any other APS plant, or if the citizen suit is filed and the citizens group prevails, significant capital investments could be required to install new pollution control technologies. The EPA could also seek civil penalties. Mercury and other Hazardous Air Pollutants. The EPA is required to adopt maximum achievable control technology emissions standards for mercury and other hazardous air pollutants by November 2011. Compliance with the new standards will be required three years after the EPA issues its final rule. Depending on the compliance requirements contained in the final rule, APS may need to make significant capital investments to install additional pollution control equipment to meet these new standards. APS cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to it. Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by APS are not fully recoverable from APSs customers, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 28 Table of Contents APS faces physical and operational risks related to climate change, and potential financial risks resulting from climate change litigation and legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Concern over climate change, deemed by many to be induced by rising levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit CO2, which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, lawsuits have been filed against companies that emit greenhouse gases, including a lawsuit filed by the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina, Alaska against us and several other utilities seeking damages related to climate change, which was dismissed but has been appealed. Financial Risks Potential Legislation and Regulation. In the past several years, the United States Congress has considered bills that would regulate domestic greenhouse gas emissions. It is possible that some form of legislation may occur in the future at the federal level with respect to greenhouse gas emissions. If the United States Congress, or individual states or groups of states in which APS operates, ultimately pass legislation regulating the emissions of greenhouse gases, any resulting limitations on CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions could result in the creation of substantial additional capital expenditures and operating costs in the form of taxes, emissions allowances or required equipment upgrades and could have a material adverse impact on all fossil fuel fired generation facilities (particularly coal fired facilities, which constitute approximately 28% of APSs generation capacity). At the state level, the California legislature enacted legislation to address greenhouse gas emissions and the California Air Resources Board approved regulations that will establish a cap and trade program for greenhouse gas. This legislation, regulation and other state specific initiatives may affect APSs business, including sales into the impacted states or the ability of its out of state power plant participants to continue their participation in certain coal fired power plants, including Four Corners following expiration of the current lease term in 2016. In addition, the EPA has determined that greenhouse gas emissions endanger public health and welfare. This determination was made in response to a 2007 United States Supreme Court ruling that greenhouse gases fit within the Clean Air Acts broad definition of air pollutant and, as a result, the EPA has the authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions of new motor vehicles under the Clean Air Act. As a result of the endangerment finding, the EPA determined that the Clean Air Act required new regulatory requirements for new and modified major greenhouse gas emitting sources, including power plants. Several groups have filed lawsuits challenging the EPAs endangerment finding. APS cannot predict what rules or regulations may ultimately result from the EPAs endangerment finding, whether the parties challenging the endangerment finding will be successful, or what impact other potential rules or regulations will have on APSs operations. Excessive costs to comply with future legislation or regulations could force APS and other similarly situated electric power generators to retire or suspend operations at certain coal fired facilities. Physical and Operational Risks. Assuming that the primary physical and operational risks to APS from climate change are increased potential for drought or water shortage, and a mild to moderate increase in ambient temperatures, APS believes it is taking the appropriate steps to respond to these risks. Weather extremes such as drought and high temperature variations are common occurrences in the Southwests desert area, and these are risks that APS considers in the normal course of business in the engineering and construction of its electric system. Large increases in ambient temperatures could require evaluation of certain materials used within its system and represent a greater challenge. 29 Table of Contents If APS cannot meet or maintain the level of renewable energy required under Arizonas increasing Renewable Energy Standards, APS may be subject to penalties or fines for non compliance. The RES requires APS to supply an increasing percentage of renewable energy each year, so that the amount of retail electricity sales from eligible renewable resources is at least 3% of total retail sales by 2011. This amount increases annually to 15% by 2025. In its 2009 retail rate case settlement agreement, APS agreed to exceed these standards and committed to an interim renewable energy target of 1,700 GWh of renewable resources to be in service by year end 2015 in addition to its 2008 renewable resource commitments. Taken together, APSs commitment is estimated to be 3,400 GWh, or approximately 10% of retail sales, by year end 2015. A portion of this total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed energy resources (generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers properties). The distributed energy requirement is 25% of the overall RES requirement of 3% in 2011 and increases to 30% of the applicable RES requirement in 2012 and subsequent years. If APS fails to implement any of its annual ACC approved renewable implementation plans, it may be subject to penalties imposed by the ACC, including APSs inability to recover certain costs. Compliance with the distributed resource requirement is contingent upon customer participation. The development of any renewable generation facilities resulting from the RES is subject to many other risks, including risks relating to financing, permitting, technology, fuel supply, and the construction of sufficient transmission capacity to support these facilities. Deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on APSs business and its results of operations. In 1999, the ACC approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in Arizona. Retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on APS due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. Although some very limited retail competition existed in APSs service area in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to APSs customers. As a result, APS cannot predict if, when, and the extent to which, additional competitors may re enter APSs service territory. In 2010, the ACC issued a decision holding that solar vendors that install and operate solar facilities for non profit schools and governments pursuant to a specific type of contract that calculates payments based on the energy produced are not public service corporations under the Arizona Constitution, and are therefore not regulated by the ACC. A second matter is pending with the ACC to determine whether that ruling should extend to solar providers who serve a broader customer base under the same business model. The use of such products by customers within our territory would result in some level of competition. APS cannot predict whether the ACC will deem these vendors public service corporations subject to ACC regulation and when, and the extent to which, additional service providers will enter APSs service territory, increasing the level of competition in the market. 30 Table of Contents OPERATIONAL RISKS APSs results of operations can be adversely affected by various factors impacting demand for electricity. Weather Conditions. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities. Electric power demand is generally a seasonal business. In Arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. As a result, APSs overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, APS has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. As a result, unusually mild weather could diminish APSs results of operations. Higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and an increased threat of forest fires. Forest fires could threaten APSs communities and electric transmission lines. Any damage caused as a result of forest fires could negatively impact APSs results of operations. Effects of Energy Conservation Measures and Distributed Energy. The ACC has enacted rules regarding energy efficiency that mandate a 22% annual energy savings requirement by 2020. This will likely increase participation by APS customers in energy efficiency and conservation programs and other demand side management efforts, which in turn will impact the demand for electricity. The rules also include a requirement for the ACC to review and address financial disincentives, recovery of fixed costs and the recovery of net lost income/revenue that would result from lower sales due to increased energy efficiency requirements. To that end, the ACC passed a policy statement on per customer revenue decoupling in December of 2010. The policy statement will have no effect on APSs rates unless implemented in a rate case. The 2009 retail rate case settlement agreement also establishes energy efficiency goals for APS that begin in 2010 that extend through 2012, subjecting APS to energy efficiency requirements slightly greater for those years than required under the rules described above. APS must also meet certain distributed energy requirements. A portion of APSs total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed energy resources (generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers properties). The distributed energy requirement is 25% of the overall RES requirement of 3% in 2011 and increases to 30% of the applicable RES requirement in 2012 and subsequent years. Customer participation in distributed energy programs would result in lower demand, since customers would be meeting some or all of their own energy needs. Reduced demand due to these energy efficiency and distributed energy requirements, unless offset through ratemaking mechanisms, could have a material adverse impact on APSs financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The operation of power generation facilities involves risks that could result in unscheduled power outages or reduced output, which could materially affect APSs results of operations. The operation of power generation facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. Unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other complications, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of APSs business. If APSs facilities operate below expectations, especially during its peak seasons, it may lose revenue or incur additional expenses, including increased purchased power expenses. 31 Table of Contents The lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on APSs business and results of operations. Assured supplies of water are important for APSs generating plants. Water in the southwestern United States is limited and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to access and use such limited supply of water. Both groundwater and surface water in areas important to APSs generating plants have been and are the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings. In addition, the Four Corners region, in which Four Corners is located, has been experiencing drought conditions that may affect the water supply for the plants if adequate moisture is not received in the watershed that supplies the area. APSs inability to access sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. The ownership and operation of power generation and transmission facilities on Indian lands could result in uncertainty related to continued leases, easements and rights of way, which could have a significant impact on our business. Certain APS power plants, including Four Corners, and portions of the transmission lines that carry power from these plants are located on Indian lands pursuant to leases, easements or other rights of way that are effective for specified periods. APS is currently unable to predict the final outcome of discussions with the appropriate Indian tribes and approval by their respective governing bodies with respect to renewals of these leases, easements and rights of way. There are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack. APS has an ownership interest in and operates, on behalf of a group of participants, Palo Verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the United States. Palo Verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to obtain adequate supplies of nuclear fuel; the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. APS maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. In addition, APS may be required under federal law to pay up to $118 million (but not more than $18 million per year) of liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident occurring not only at Palo Verde, but at any other nuclear power plant in the United States. Although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at Palo Verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. The operation of Palo Verde requires licenses that need to be periodically renewed and or extended. In December 2008, APS applied for renewed operating licenses for all three Palo Verde units for 20 years beyond the expirations of the current licenses. APS does not anticipate any problems renewing these licenses. However, as a result of potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities, the licensing process could result in increased licensing or compliance costs that are difficult to predict. 32 Table of Contents The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. APSs operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices. APS is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas and coal to the extent that unhedged positions exist. We have established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange traded futures and options and over the counter forwards, options, and swaps. As part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity. To the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time and financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank Act), which was signed into law in July 2010, contains measures aimed at increasing the transparency and stability of the over the counter, or OTC, derivative markets and preventing excessive speculation. The Dodd Frank Act could restrict, among other things, trading positions in the energy futures markets, require different collateral or settlement positions, or increase regulatory reporting over derivative positions. Based on the provisions included in the Dodd Frank Act and the implementation of regulations yet to be developed, these changes could, among other things, impact our ability to hedge commodity price and interest rate risk or increase the costs associated with our hedging programs. We are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. We use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties. Despite the fact that the majority of APSs trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, which could result in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. Changes in technology could create challenges for APSs existing business. Research and development activities are ongoing to assess alternative technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption, including clean coal and coal gasification, renewable technologies including photovoltaic (solar) cells, customer sited generation (solar) and efficiency technologies, and improvements in traditional technologies and equipment, such as more efficient gas turbines. Advances in these, or other technologies could reduce the cost of power production, making APSs existing generating facilities less economical. In addition, advances in technology could reduce the demand for power supply, which could adversely affect APSs business. APS is pursuing and implementing smart grid technologies, including advanced transmission and distribution system technologies, digital meters enabling two way communications between the utility and its customers, and electric usage monitoring devices for customers homes and businesses. Many of the products and processes resulting from these and other alternative technologies have not yet been widely used or tested, and their use on large scale systems is not as advanced and established as APSs existing technologies and equipment. Uncertainties and unknowns related to these and other advancements in technology and equipment could adversely affect APSs business if national standards develop that do not embrace the current technologies or if the technologies and equipment fail to perform as expected. In addition, widespread installation and acceptance of these devices could enable the entry of new market participants, such as technology companies, into the interface between APS and its customers. 33 Table of Contents We are subject to employee workforce factors that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Like most companies in the electric utility industry, our workforce is aging and a number of our employees will become eligible to retire within the next few years. Although we have undertaken efforts to recruit and train new employees, we may not be successful. We are subject to other employee workforce factors, such as the availability of qualified personnel, the need to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with union employees and potential work stoppages. Exposure to these or other employee workforce factors could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to information security risks. In the regular course of our business we handle a range of sensitive security and customer information. We are subject to laws and rules issued by different agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining the confidentiality of this information. A security breach of our information systems such as theft or the inappropriate release of certain types of information, including confidential customer information or system operating information could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. FINANCIAL RISKS Financial market disruptions may increase our financing costs or limit our access to the credit and capital markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our financial strategy. We rely on access to short term money markets, longer term capital markets and the bank market as a significant source of liquidity and for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from our operations. We believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets. However, certain market disruptions may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access one or more financial markets. Such disruptions could include: continuation of the current economic downturn; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks; mergers among financial institutions and the overall health of the banking industry; or the overall health of the utility industry. In addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be satisfied for a variety of reasons, including unexpected periods of financial distress affecting our lenders, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of our liquidity sources. 34 Table of Contents Changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, which would increase our interest expense on our debt and reduce funds available to us for our current plans. Additionally, an increase in our leverage could adversely affect us by: reducing our credit ratings; increasing the cost of future debt financing and refinancing; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and requiring us to dedicate an increased portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes. A reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our current ratings are set forth in Liquidity and Capital Resources Credit Ratings in Item 7. We cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Any downgrade or withdrawal could adversely affect the market price of Pinnacle Wests and APSs securities, limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. We would be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. In addition, borrowing costs under certain of our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings. A downgrade would also require us to provide substantial additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties. If our short term ratings were to be lowered, it could completely eliminate any possible future access to the commercial paper market. We note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Market performance, changing interest rates and other economic factors could decrease the value of our benefit plan assets and nuclear decommissioning trust funds and increase our related obligations, resulting in significant additional funding that could negatively impact our business. Disruptions in the capital markets and or decline in market value may adversely affect the values of fixed income and equity investments held in our employee benefit plan trusts and nuclear decommissioning trusts. We have significant obligations in these areas and hold substantial assets in these trusts. A decline in the market value of the investments in these trusts may increase our funding requirements. Additionally, the pension plan and other postretirement benefit liabilities are impacted by the discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. Declining interest rates impact the discount rate, and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to other comprehensive income. Changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. A significant portion of the pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs and all of the nuclear decommissioning costs are recovered in regulated electricity prices. Our inability to fully recover these costs in a timely manner or any increased funding obligations could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 35 Table of Contents We may be required to adopt IFRS. The ultimate adoption of such standards could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. IFRS is a comprehensive series of accounting standards published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) that is being considered by the SEC to replace accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) for use in preparation of financial statements. If the SEC requires mandatory adoption of IFRS, we may lose our ability to use regulatory accounting treatment, and would follow IFRS rather than GAAP for the preparation of our financial statements beginning in 2014. In the meantime, the FASB and the IASB are working on several accounting standards jointly to converge certain accounting differences before 2014. The implementation and adoption of these new standards and the inability to use regulatory accounting could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our cash flow largely depends on the performance of APS. We conduct our operations primarily through our subsidiary, APS. Substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by APS. Accordingly, our cash flow is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of APS and its distributions to us. APS is a separate and distinct legal entity and has no obligation to make distributions to us. APSs debt agreements may restrict its ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. In addition, an ACC financing order requires APS to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow APS to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. The common equity ratio, as defined in the ACC order, is total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long term debt, including current maturities of long term debt. Pinnacle Wests ability to meet its debt service obligations could be adversely affected because its debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of its subsidiaries. Because Pinnacle West is structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to our debt securities. The assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt and other obligations. Our ability to have the benefit of their assets and cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; 36 Table of Contents developments generally affecting industries in which we operate, particularly the energy distribution and energy generation industries; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments; our dividend policy; future sales by the Company of equity or equity linked securities; and general domestic and international economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of Arizona law make it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover attempts. These provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control premium, include the following: restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of business combination transactions with an interested shareholder (generally, any person who owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting power or any of our affiliates or associates) or any affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are met; anti greenmail provisions of Arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from purchasing shares of our voting stock from beneficial owners of more than 5% of our outstanding shares unless specified conditions are satisfied; the ability of the Board of Directors to increase the size of the Board and fill vacancies on the Board, whether resulting from such increase, or from death, resignation, disqualification or otherwise; and the ability of our Board of Directors to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred stock, the other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without shareholder approval. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they could enable the Board to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. SunCors continuing wind down of its real estate business may give rise to various claims. Since 2009, SunCor has been engaged in a program to dispose of its homebuilding operations, master planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order to reduce its outstanding debt. As of December 31, 2010, SunCor had no existing bank debt and had total assets remaining on its books of $16 million, consisting of $8 million of intercompany receivables, $3 million of assets held for sale and $5 million of other assets. SunCor is focusing on concluding an orderly wind down of its business. This effort includes addressing contingent liabilities, such as warranty and construction claims that may be brought by property owners and potential funding obligations to local taxing districts that financed infrastructure at certain of its real estate developments. Pinnacle West has not guaranteed any of SunCors obligations. SunCors remaining business operations, and its ability to generate cash from operations, are minimal. As a result, SunCor may seek judicial protection to effectuate a resolution of any claims that cannot be successfully addressed by other means. In such event, Pinnacle West could be exposed to the uncertainties and complexities inherent for parent companies in such proceedings. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Neither Pinnacle West nor APS has received written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the SEC staff that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2010 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Generation Facilities APSs portfolio of owned and leased generating facilities is provided in the table below: Principal Primary Owned No. of % Fuels Dispatch Capacity Name Units Owned (a) Used Type (MW) Nuclear: Palo Verde (b) 3 29.1 % Uranium Base Load 1,146 Total Nuclear 1,146 Steam: Four Corners 1, 2, 3 3 Coal Base Load 560 Four Corners 4, 5 (c) 2 15 % Coal Base Load 231 Cholla 3 Coal Base Load 647 Navajo (d) 3 14 % Coal Base Load 315 Ocotillo 2 Gas Peaking 220 Saguaro 2 Gas/Oil Peaking 210 Total Steam 2,183 Combined Cycle: Redhawk 2 Gas Load Following 984 West Phoenix 5 Gas Load Following 887 Total Combined Cycle 1,871 Combustion Turbine: Ocotillo 2 Gas Peaking 110 Saguaro 1, 2 2 Gas/Oil Peaking 110 Saguaro 3 1 Gas Peaking 79 Douglas 1 Oil Peaking 16 Sundance 10 Gas Peaking 420 West Phoenix 2 Gas Peaking 110 Yucca 1, 2, 3 3 Gas/Oil Peaking 93 Yucca 4 1 Oil Peaking 54 Yucca 5, 6 2 Gas Peaking 96 Total Combustion Turbine 1,088 Solar: Multiple facilities Solar As Available 5 Total Solar 5 Total Capacity 6,293 (a) 100% unless otherwise noted. (b) See Business of Arizona Public Service Company Energy Sources and Resource Planning Generation Facilities Nuclear in Item 1 for details regarding leased interests in Palo Verde. The other participants are Salt River Project (17.49%), SCE (15.8%), El Paso Electric Company (15.8%), Public Service Company of New Mexico (10.2%), Southern California Public Power Authority (5.91%), and Los Angeles Department of Water Power (5.7%). The plant is operated by APS. 39 Table of Contents (c) The other participants are Salt River Project (10%), Public Service Company of New Mexico (13%), SCE (48%), Tucson Electric Power Company (7%) and El Paso Electric Company (7%). The plant is operated by APS. As discussed under Business of Arizona Public Service Company Energy Sources and Resource Planning Generation Facilities Coal Fueled Generating Facilities Four Corners in Item 1, APS and SCE have entered into an agreement by which APS would acquire SCEs interest in Units 4 and 5, after which APS would close Units 1, 2 and 3. (d) The other participants are Salt River Project (21.7%), Nevada Power Company (11.3%), the United States Government (24.3%), Tucson Electric Power Company (7.5%) and Los Angeles Department of Water Power (21.2%). The plant is operated by Salt River Project. See Business of Arizona Public Service Company Environmental Matters in Item 1 with respect to matters having a possible impact on the operation of certain of APSs generating facilities. See Business of Arizona Public Service Company in Item 1 for a map detailing the location of APSs major power plants and principal transmission lines. Transmission and Distribution Facilities Current Facilities. APSs transmission facilities consist of approximately 5,992 pole miles of overhead lines and approximately 49 miles of underground lines, 5,769 miles of which are located in Arizona. APSs distribution facilities consist of approximately 11,098 miles of overhead lines and approximately 17,417 miles of underground primary cable, all of which are located in Arizona. APS shares ownership of some of its transmission facilities with other companies. The following table shows APSs jointly owned interests in those transmission facilities recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2010: Percent Owned (Weighted Average) North Valley System 71.2 % Palo Verde Estrella 500KV System 50.0 % Round Valley System 50.0 % ANPP 500KV System 34.0 % Navajo Southern System 26.1 % Four Corners Switchyards 47.5 % Palo Verde Yuma 500KV System 43.5 % Phoenix Mead System 17.5 % Expansion. Each year APS prepares and files with the ACC a ten year transmission plan. In APSs 2011 plan, APS projects it will invest approximately $450 million in new transmission over the next ten years, which includes 258 miles of new lines. This investment will increase the import capability into metropolitan Phoenix by approximately 6% and will increase the import capability into the Yuma area by approximately 39%. One significant project presently nearing completion is the Morgan Pinnacle Peak project, which consists of 26 miles of 500kV and 230kV lines. APS continues to work with regulators to identify transmission projects necessary to support renewable energy facilities. Two such projects, which are included in APSs 2011 transmission plan, are the Delany to Palo Verde line and the North Gila to Palo Verde line, both of which are intended to support the transmission of renewable energy to Phoenix and California. 40 Table of Contents Plant and Transmission Line Leases and Easements on Indian Lands The Navajo Plant and Four Corners are located on land held under leases from the Navajo Nation and also under easements from the federal government. The easement and lease for the Navajo Plant expire in 2019 and the easement and lease for Four Corners expire in 2016. Each of the leases contains an option to extend for an additional 25 year period from the end of the existing lease term, for a rental amount tied to the original rent payment adjusted based on an index. The easements do not contain an express renewal option and it is unclear what conditions to renewal or extension of the easements may be imposed. APS is currently working with the Navajo Nation to extend the Four Corners leases and the transmission rights of way discussed below for an additional twenty five years. (See Business of Arizona Public Service Company Energy Sources and Resource Planning Generation Facilities Coal Fueled Generating Facilities in Item 1 for details of this extension and the related required approvals.) The ultimate cost of renewal of the Navajo Plant and Four Corners leases and easements is uncertain. The coal contracted for use in these plants is also located on Indian reservations. Certain portions of the transmission lines that carry power from several of our power plants are located on Indian lands pursuant to easements or other rights of way that are effective for specified periods. Some of these rights of way have expired and our renewal applications have not yet been acted upon by the appropriate Indian tribes. Other rights expire at various times in the future and renewal action by the applicable tribe will be required at that time. The majority of our transmission lines residing on Indian lands are on the Navajo Nation. The Four Corners and Navajo Plant leases provide Navajo Nation consent to certain of the rights of way for transmission lines related to those plants at a specified rental rate for the original term of the rights of way and for a like payment in any renewal period. In addition, a 1985 amendment to the leases provides a formula for calculating payments for certain new and renewal rights of way. However, some of our rights of way are not covered by the leases, or are granted by other Indian tribes. In recent negotiations with other utilities or companies for renewal of similar rights of way, certain of the affected Indian tribes have required payments substantially in excess of amounts that we have paid in the past for such rights of way or that are typical for similar permits across non Indian lands; however, we are unaware of the underlying agreements and or specific circumstances surrounding these renewals. The ultimate cost of renewal of the rights of way for our transmission lines is uncertain. We are monitoring these rights of way and easement issues and have had extensive discussions with the Navajo Nation regarding them. We are currently unable to predict the outcome of this matter. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See Business of Arizona Public Service Company Environmental Matters in Item 1 with regard to pending or threatened litigation and other disputes. See Note 3 for ACC and FERC related matters. See Note 11 for information relating to the FERC proceedings on Pacific Northwest energy market issues, liability associated with the Motorola 52nd Street Superfund Site and for information regarding the bankruptcy proceeding involving the landlord for our corporate headquarters building. 41 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF PINNACLE WEST Pinnacle Wests executive officers are elected no less often than annually and may be removed by the Board of Directors at any time. The executive officers, their ages at February 18, 2011, current positions and principal occupations for the past five years are as follows: Name Age Position Period Donald E. Brandt 56 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Pinnacle West; Chairman of the Board of APS 2009 Present President of Pinnacle West 2008 Present Chief Executive Officer of APS 2008 Present Chief Operating Officer of Pinnacle West 2008 2009 President of APS 2006 2009 Executive Vice President of Pinnacle West; Chief Financial Officer of APS 2003 2008 Chief Financial Officer of Pinnacle West 2002 2008 Executive Vice President of APS 2003 2006 Donald G. Robinson 57 President and Chief Operating Officer of APS 2009 Present Senior Vice President, Planning and Administration of APS 2007 2009 Vice President, Planning of APS 2003 2007 Denise R. Danner 55 Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Pinnacle West; Chief Accounting Officer of APS 2010 Present Vice President and Controller of APS 2009 Present Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Allied Waste Industries, Inc. 2007 2008 Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Phelps Dodge Corporation 2004 2007 Randall K. Edington 57 Executive Vice President and Chief Nuclear Officer of APS 2007 Present Senior Vice President and Chief Nuclear Officer of APS 2007 Site Vice President and Chief Nuclear Officer of Cooper Generating Station with Entergy Corporation 2003 2007 David P. Falck 57 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Pinnacle West and APS 2009 Present Senior Vice President Law of Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. 2007 2009 Partner Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP 1987 2007 42 Table of Contents Name Age Position Period James R. Hatfield 53 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Pinnacle West and APS 2008 Present Treasurer of Pinnacle West and APS 2009 2010 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of OGE Energy Corp. 1999 2008 John Hatfield 45 Vice President, Communications of APS 2010 Present Director, Corporate Communications of Southern California Edison 2004 2010 Lee R. Nickloy 44 Vice President and Treasurer of Pinnacle West and APS 2010 Present Assistant Treasurer and Director Corporate Finance of Ameren Corporation 2000 2010 Mark A. Schiavoni 55 Senior Vice President, Fossil Operations of APS 2009 Present Senior Vice President of Exelon Generation and President of Exelon Power 2004 2009 Lori S. Sundberg 47 Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Ethics of APS 2011 Present Vice President, Human Resources and Ethics of APS 2010 2011 Vice President, Human Resources of APS 2007 2010 Vice President, Employee Relations, Safety, Compliance Embrace of American Express Company 2007 Vice President, HR Relationship Leader, Global Corporate Travel Division of American Express Company 2003 2007 43 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Pinnacle Wests common stock is publicly held and is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. At the close of business on February 15, 2011, Pinnacle Wests common stock was held of record by approximately 26,953 shareholders. QUARTERLY STOCK PRICES AND DIVIDENDS PAID PER SHARE STOCK SYMBOL: PNW Dividends 2010 High Low Close Per Share 1st Quarter $ 38.37 $ 34.62 $ 37.73 $ 0.525 2nd Quarter 39.10 32.31 36.36 0.525 3rd Quarter 41.75 35.71 41.27 0.525 4th Quarter 42.68 39.97 41.45 0.525 Dividends 2009 High Low Close Per Share 1st Quarter $ 35.13 $ 22.32 $ 26.56 $ 0.525 2nd Quarter 30.30 25.28 30.15 0.525 3rd Quarter 33.71 28.87 32.82 0.525 4th Quarter 37.96 31.08 36.58 0.525 APSs common stock is wholly owned by Pinnacle West and is not listed for trading on any stock exchange. As a result, there is no established public trading market for APSs common stock. The chart below sets forth the dividends paid on APSs common stock for each of the four quarters for 2010 and 2009. Common Stock Dividends (Dollars in Thousands) Quarter 2010 2009 1st Quarter $ 42,500 $ 42,500 2nd Quarter 56,900 42,500 3rd Quarter 56,900 42,500 4th Quarter 26,100 42,500 The sole holder of APSs common stock, Pinnacle West, is entitled to dividends when and as declared out of legally available funds. As of December 31, 2010, APS did not have any outstanding preferred stock. 44 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table contains information about our purchases of our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2010. Total Number of Total Shares Purchased Maximum Number of Number of Average as Part of Publicly Shares that May Yet Be Shares Price Paid Announced Plans Purchased Under the Period Purchased (1) per Share or Programs Plans or Programs October 1 October 31, 2010 November 1 November 30, 2010 December 1 December 31, 2010 1,994 $ 41.39 Total 1,994 $ 41.39 (1) Represents shares of common stock repurchased for rescission of director stock grant. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) OPERATING RESULTS Operating revenues: Regulated electricity segment $ 3,180,678 $ 3,149,187 $ 3,127,383 $ 2,918,163 $ 2,635,036 Marketing and trading 66,897 138,247 136,748 Other revenues 82,967 26,723 25,407 34,375 24,282 Total operating revenues $ 3,263,645 $ 3,175,910 $ 3,219,687 $ 3,090,785 $ 2,796,066 Income from continuing operations $ 350,598 $ 252,558 $ 278,335 $ 299,218 $ 279,586 Discontinued operations net of income taxes (a) 19,611 (179,794 ) (18,715 ) 23,773 61,935 Net income 370,209 72,764 259,620 322,991 341,521 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 20,156 4,434 17,495 15,848 14,266 Net income attributable to common shareholders $ 350,053 $ 68,330 $ 242,125 $ 307,143 $ 327,255 COMMON STOCK DATA Book value per share year end $ 33.93 $ 32.69 $ 34.16 $ 35.15 $ 34.48 Earnings per weighted average common share outstanding: Continuing operations attributable to common shareholders basic $ 3.10 $ 2.31 $ 2.59 $ 2.83 $ 2.67 Net income attributable to common shareholders basic $ 3.28 $ 0.68 $ 2.40 $ 3.06 $ 3.29 Continuing operations attributable to common shareholders diluted $ 3.08 $ 2.30 $ 2.58 $ 2.81 $ 2.65 Net income attributable to common shareholders diluted $ 3.27 $ 0.67 $ 2.40 $ 3.05 $ 3.27 Dividends declared per share $ 2.10 $ 2.10 $ 2.10 $ 2.10 $ 2.025 Weighted average common shares outstanding basic 106,573,348 101,160,659 100,690,838 100,255,807 99,417,008 Weighted average common shares outstanding diluted 107,137,785 101,263,795 100,964,920 100,834,871 100,010,108 BALANCE SHEET DATA Total assets $ 12,362,703 $ 11,986,324 $ 11,805,967 $ 11,355,788 $ 11,019,185 Liabilities and equity: Current liabilities $ 1,310,736 $ 1,108,943 $ 1,527,683 $ 1,365,192 $ 943,497 Long term debt less current maturities 3,045,794 3,496,524 3,183,386 3,300,663 3,426,914 Deferred credits and other 4,230,947 3,952,853 3,523,929 3,029,866 3,131,901 Total liabilities 8,587,477 8,558,320 8,234,998 7,695,721 7,502,312 Total equity 3,775,226 3,428,004 3,570,969 3,660,067 3,516,873 Total liabilities and equity $ 12,362,703 $ 11,986,324 $ 11,805,967 $ 11,355,788 $ 11,019,185 (a) Amounts primarily related to SunCors real estate impairment charges (see Note 23) and APSES discontinued operations (see Note 22). 46 Table of Contents SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (dollars in thousands) OPERATING RESULTS Electric operating revenues $ 3,180,807 $ 3,149,500 $ 3,133,496 $ 2,936,277 $ 2,658,513 Fuel and purchased power costs 1,046,815 1,178,620 1,289,883 1,151,392 969,767 Other operating expenses 1,584,955 1,501,081 1,376,257 1,326,934 1,258,848 Operating income 549,037 469,799 467,356 457,951 429,898 Other income (deductions) 20,138 13,893 836 20,870 27,584 Interest deductions net of AFUDC 213,349 213,258 188,353 179,033 173,486 Net income 355,826 270,434 279,839 299,788 283,996 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 20,163 19,209 17,495 15,848 14,266 Net income attributable to common shareholder $ 335,663 $ 251,225 $ 262,344 $ 283,940 $ 269,730 BALANCE SHEET DATA Total assets $ 12,241,582 $ 11,681,571 $ 11,149,451 $ 10,514,981 $ 10,150,051 Liabilities and equity: Total equity $ 3,916,037 $ 3,527,679 $ 3,416,751 $ 3,425,328 $ 3,278,230 Long term debt less current maturities 2,948,991 3,180,406 2,850,242 2,876,881 2,877,502 Palo Verde sale leaseback lessor notes less current maturities 96,803 126,000 151,783 173,538 194,281 Total capitalization 6,961,831 6,834,085 6,418,776 6,475,747 6,350,013 Current liabilities 1,095,897 900,625 1,289,523 1,076,449 826,715 Deferred credits and other 4,183,854 3,946,861 3,441,152 2,962,785 2,973,323 Total liabilities and equity $ 12,241,582 $ 11,681,571 $ 11,149,451 $ 10,514,981 $ 10,150,051 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS INTRODUCTION The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Financial Statements and APSs Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes that appear in Item 8 of this report. For information on the broad factors that may cause our actual future results to differ from those we currently seek or anticipate, see Forward Looking Statements at the front of this report and Risk Factors in Item 1A. OVERVIEW Pinnacle West owns all of the outstanding common stock of APS. APS is a vertically integrated electric utility that provides either retail or wholesale electric service to most of the state of Arizona, with the major exceptions of about one half of the Phoenix metropolitan area, the Tucson metropolitan area and Mohave County in northwestern Arizona. APS accounts for substantially all of our revenues and earnings, and is expected to continue to do so. Areas of Business Focus Operational Performance, Reliability and Recent Developments. Nuclear. In 2010, Palo Verde achieved its best generation year ever, producing over 31 million megawatt hours, with an overall station capacity factor of 90.5%. The generation from each Palo Verde operating unit directly reflects the stations currently effective 18 month refueling cycle. In 2010, Palo Verde successfully refueled both Unit 1 and Unit 3. As part of the 2010 refueling outages, Palo Verde installed new reactor vessel closure heads and simplified head assembly modifications. These projects are designed to provide safety benefits, eliminate costly inspections and reduce the duration of future outages. Coal and Related Environmental Matters. APS operated coal plants, Four Corners and Cholla, achieved net capacity factors of 82% and 79%, respectively, in 2010. APS is focused on the impacts on its coal fleet that may result from potential legislation and increased regulation concerning greenhouse gas emissions. Recent concern over climate change and other emission related issues could have a significant impact on our capital expenditures and operating costs in the form of taxes, emissions allowances or required equipment upgrades for these plants. APS is closely monitoring its long range capital management plans, understanding that any resulting legislation and regulation could impact the economic viability of certain plants, as well as the willingness or ability of power plant participants to fund any such equipment upgrades. In particular, on October 6, 2010, the EPA issued its proposed determination for Best Available Retrofit Technology (BART) requirements for Four Corners that, as proposed, would require installation of additional pollution control equipment on all five of the plants units. Based on APSs current ownership share of Four Corners, APS currently estimates that its total costs for the proposed controls could be up to approximately $400 million for nitrogen oxide controls and about $220 million for particulate removal equipment. It is currently evaluating the impacts of the proposed determination and intends to submit comments during the EPAs comment period. See Business of Arizona Public Service Company Environmental Matters in Item 1 and environmental and climate change related risks described in Item 1A for additional environmental and climate change developments and risks facing APS. 48 Table of Contents In addition, SCE, a participant in Four Corners, has indicated that certain California legislation may prohibit it from making emission control expenditures at the plant. On November 8, 2010, APS and SCE entered into an asset purchase agreement, providing for the purchase by APS of SCEs 48% interest in each of Units 4 and 5 of Four Corners. The purchase price is $294 million, subject to certain adjustments. Completion of the purchase by APS, which is expected to occur in the second half of 2012, is subject to the receipt of approvals by the ACC, the California Public Utilities Commission and the FERC. APS and SCE filed applications with their respective commissions seeking requisite authority or approvals to complete the transaction. Closing is also conditioned on the execution of a new coal supply contract for the lease renewal period described below, expiration of the waiting period under the Hart Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and other typical closing conditions. APS, on behalf of the Four Corners participants, has negotiated amendments to an existing facility lease with the Navajo Nation which would extend the Four Corners leasehold interest to 2041. Execution by the Navajo Nation of the lease amendments is a condition to closing of the purchase by APS of SCEs interests in Four Corners. The execution of these amendments by the Navajo Nation requires the approval of the Navajo Nation Council, which occurred on February 15, 2011 and is awaiting final signature by the Nations President. The effectiveness of the amendments also requires the approval of the DOI, as does a related Federal rights of way grant which the Four Corners participants will pursue. A Federal environmental review will be conducted as part of the DOI review process. Pursuant to a Co Tenancy Agreement among the Four Corners participants, the other participants have a right of first refusal to purchase shares of SCEs interests proportional to their current ownership percentages. The exercise of this purchase right by any of the other participants must be exercised by March 8, 2011. If any of the purchase rights are exercised, the amount available for purchase by APS would be reduced. At this time APS does not know whether any of the other participants will exercise the right of first refusal. APS has announced that, if APSs purchase of SCEs interests in Units 4 and 5 at Four Corners is consummated, it will close Units 1, 2 and 3 at the plant. These events will change the plants overall generating capacity from 2,100 MW to 1,540 MW and APSs entitlement from the plant from 791 MW to 970 MW. When applying for approval to purchase Units 4 and 5, APS also requested from the ACC recovery of any unrecovered costs associated with the closure of Units 1, 2 and 3. Transmission and Delivery. In the area of transmission and delivery to its customers, APS ranked favorably during 2010, with top quartile performance for average customer outage time and its best reliability year to date. During 2010, APS undertook several significant transmission projects, including the Morgan to Pinnacle Peak transmission line scheduled for completion in 2011. APSs 2011 transmission plan projects that it will invest approximately $450 million in new transmission over the next ten years, which includes 258 miles of new lines. The first three years of these additions are included in the capital expenditures table presented in the Liquidity section below along with other transmission costs for upgrades and replacements. APS is working closely with regulators to identify and plan for transmission needs resulting from the current focus on renewable energy. APS is also working to establish and expand smart grid technology throughout its service territory designed to provide long term benefits both to APS and its customers. APS is piloting and deploying a variety of technologies that are intended to allow customers to better monitor their energy use and needs, minimize system outage durations and the number of customers that experience outages, and facilitate cost savings to APS through improved reliability and the automation of certain distribution functions, including remote meter reading and remote connects and disconnects. 49 Table of Contents Renewable Energy. The ACC approved the RES in 2006, recognizing the importance of renewable energy to our state. The renewable energy requirement is 3% of retail electric sales in 2011 and increases annually until it reaches 15% in 2025. In the 2009 retail rate case settlement agreement, APS agreed to exceed the RES standards, committing to 1,700 GWh of new renewable resources to be in service by year end 2015 in addition to its 2008 renewable resource commitments. Taken together, APSs commitment is estimated to be 3,400 GWh or approximately 10% of APSs retail energy sales by year end 2015, which is double the existing RES target of 5% for that year. See Note 3. A component of the RES is focused on stimulating development of distributed energy systems (generally speaking, small scale renewable technologies that are located on customers properties). APS has a diverse portfolio of existing and planned renewable resources totaling 875 MW, including solar, wind, geothermal, biomass and biogas. Of this portfolio, 288 MW are currently in operation and 587 MW are under contract for development or are under construction. Renewable resources in operation include 5 MW of utility scale facilities owned by APS, 223 MW of long term purchased power agreements, and an estimated 60 MW of customer sited, third party owned distributed energy resources. To achieve our RES requirements, as mentioned above, to date APS has entered into contracts for 587 MW of renewable resources that are planned, in development or under construction. APSs strategy to procure these resources includes new facilities to be owned by APS, purchased power contracts for new facilities and ongoing development of distributed energy resources. Through the AZ Sun Program, approved by the ACC on March 3, 2010, APS plans to own 100 MW of solar photovoltaic power plants across Arizona by investing up to $500 million through 2014. Under this program, APS has executed contracts for the development of 83 MW of new solar generation, representing an investment commitment of approximately $377 million. See Note 3 for additional details of the AZ Sun Program, including the related cost recovery. APS has also entered into long term purchased power agreements for 382 MW from solar, wind and biogas facilities currently planned, in development or under construction, and 122 MW from distributed energy resources. Agreements for the development and completion of future resources are subject to various conditions, including successful siting, permitting and interconnection of the project to the electric grid. APS continues to actively consider opportunities to enhance its renewable energy portfolio, both to ensure its compliance with the Renewable Energy Standard and to meet the needs of its customer base. Demand Side Management. Arizona regulators are placing an increased focus on energy efficiency and other demand side management programs to encourage customers to conserve energy, while incentivizing utilities to aid in these efforts that ultimately reduce the demand for energy. In December 2009, the ACC initiated Energy Efficiency rulemaking, with a proposed Energy Efficiency Standard of 22% cumulative annual energy savings by 2020. The 22% figure represents the cumulative reduction in future energy usage through 2020 attributable to energy efficiency initiatives. On July 27, 2010, the proposed Energy Efficiency Standard was adopted by the ACC, approved by the Arizona Attorney General and became effective on January 1, 2011. This ambitious standard will likely impact Arizonas future energy resource needs. 50 Table of Contents Rate Matters. APS needs timely recovery through rates of its capital and operating expenditures to maintain adequate financial health. APSs retail rates are regulated by the ACC and its wholesale electric rates (primarily for transmission) are regulated by the FERC. At the end of 2009, the ACC approved a settlement agreement entered into by APS and twenty one of the twenty three other parties to APSs general retail rate case, with modifications that did not materially affect the overall economic terms of the agreement. The rate case settlement authorizes and requires equity infusions into APS of at least $700 million prior to the end of 2014. The settlement demonstrated cooperation among APS, the ACC staff, the Residential Utility Consumer Office (RUCO) and other intervenors to the rate case, and establishes a future rate case filing plan that allows APS the opportunity to help shape Arizonas energy future outside of continual rate cases. See Note 3 for a detailed discussion of the settlement agreement terms and information on APSs FERC rates. APS has several recovery mechanisms in place that provide more timely recovery to APS of its fuel and transmission costs, and costs associated with the promotion and implementation of its demand side management and renewable energy efforts and customer programs. These mechanisms are described more fully in Note 3. On October 18, 2010, the Chairman of the ACC issued a draft decoupling policy statement for consideration by the commission. On December 15, 2010 the ACC unanimously approved a slightly modified decoupling policy statement supportive of using a revenue per customer methodology, which is the mechanism APS and a number of other parties support. Decoupling refers to a ratemaking design which reduces or removes the linkage between sales and utility revenues and or profits, reducing utility disincentives to the adoption of programs that benefit customers by saving energy. Mechanically, decoupling compares actual versus authorized revenues or revenue per customer over a period and either credits or collects any differences from customers in a subsequent period. The policy permits regulated utilities to file a decoupling proposal in their next general rate case. APS intends to include a decoupling model consistent with the policy statement for consideration in its upcoming general rate case, currently expected to be filed in June 2011. Financial Strength and Flexibility. Pinnacle West and APS currently have ample borrowing capacity under their respective credit facilities and have been able to access these facilities, ensuring adequate liquidity for each company. In early February 2010, APS entered into a $500 million revolving credit facility, replacing its $377 million revolving credit facility that would have otherwise terminated in December 2010. At that same time, Pinnacle West entered into a $200 million revolving credit facility that replaced its $283 million facility that also would have otherwise terminated in December 2010. Since March 2010, Pinnacle West and APS have accessed the commercial paper market, which neither company had utilized since the third quarter of 2008 due to negative market conditions. In April 2010, Pinnacle West issued 6,900,000 shares of common stock at an offering price of $38.00 per share, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $253 million. Pinnacle West contributed all of the net proceeds from this offering into APS in the form of equity infusions. APS has used these capital contributions to repay short term indebtedness, to finance capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes. In early February 2011, APS entered into a $500 million revolving credit facility, replacing its $489 million revolving credit facility that would have otherwise terminated in September 2011. SunCor Real Estate Operations. As a result of the continuing distressed conditions in the real estate markets, during 2009 SunCor undertook a program to dispose of its homebuilding operations, master planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order to reduce its outstanding debt. At December 31, 2010, SunCor had total remaining assets of about $16 million, which includes approximately $3 million of assets held for sale. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Other Subsidiaries SunCor below for information regarding 2010 asset sales and liquidity matters. 51 Table of Contents District Cooling Business Sale. On June 22, 2010, APSES sold its district cooling business consisting of operations in downtown Phoenix, Tucson, and on certain Arizona State University campuses. The sale resulted in an after tax gain of approximately $25 million. APSES is now focused on its core business of energy conservation and renewable energy contracting services. Subsidiaries. The operations of APSES and our other first tier subsidiary, El Dorado, are not expected to have any material impact on our financial results, or to require any material amounts of capital, over the next three years. Key Financial Drivers In addition to the continuing impact of the matters described above, many factors influence our financial results and our future financial outlook, including those listed below. We closely monitor these factors to plan for the Companys current needs, and to adjust our expectations, financial budgets and forecasts appropriately. Electric Operating Revenues. For the years 2008 through 2010, retail electric revenues comprised approximately 93% of our total electric operating revenues. Our electric operating revenues are affected by customer growth or decline, variations in weather from period to period, customer mix, average usage per customer and the impacts of energy efficiency programs, electricity rates and tariffs, the recovery of PSA deferrals and the operation of other recovery mechanisms. Off system sales of excess generation output, purchased power and natural gas are included in regulated electricity segment revenues and related fuel and purchased power because they are credited to APSs retail customers through the PSA. These revenue transactions are affected by the availability of excess generation or other energy resources and wholesale market conditions, including competition, demand and prices. Customer and Sales Growth. Customer growth in APSs service territory for the year ended December 31, 2010 was 0.6% compared with the prior year. For the three years 2008 through 2010, APSs customer growth averaged 0.9% per year. We currently expect customer growth to average about 1.7% per year for 2011 through 2013 due to anticipated improving economic conditions both nationally and in Arizona. Retail sales in kilowatt hours, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations, for 2010 declined 1.0% compared to the prior year, reflecting the poor economic conditions in 2010 and the effects of our energy efficiency programs. For the three years 2008 through 2010, APSs actual retail electricity sales in kilowatt hours, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations, declined at an average annual rate of 0.9%. We currently estimate that total retail electricity sales in kilowatt hours will remain flat on average per year during 2011 through 2013, including the effects of APSs energy efficiency programs, but excluding the effects of weather variations. A continuation of the economic downturn, or the failure of the Arizona economy to rebound in the near future, could further impact these estimates. The customer and sales growth referred to in this paragraph apply to Native Load customers. Actual sales growth, excluding weather related variations, may differ from our projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth, usage patterns, impacts of energy efficiency programs and responses to retail price changes. Our experience indicates that a reasonable range of variation in our kilowatt hour sales projection attributable to such economic factors under normal business conditions can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of up to $10 million. Weather. In forecasting the retail sales growth numbers provided above, we assume normal weather patterns based on historical data. Historical extreme weather variations have resulted in annual variations in net income in excess of $20 million. However, our experience indicates that the more typical variations from normal weather can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of up to $10 million. 52 Table of Contents Fuel and Purchased Power Costs. Fuel and purchased power costs included on our Consolidated Statements of Income are impacted by our electricity sales volumes, existing contracts for purchased power and generation fuel, our power plant performance, transmission availability or constraints, prevailing market prices, new generating plants being placed in service in our market areas, our hedging program for managing such costs and PSA deferrals and the related amortization. Operations and Maintenance Expenses. Operations and maintenance expenses are impacted by growth, power plant operations, maintenance of utility plant (including generation, transmission, and distribution facilities), inflation, outages, higher trending pension and other postretirement benefit costs, renewable energy and demand side management related expenses (which are offset by the same amount of regulated electricity segment operating revenues) and other factors. In its 2009 retail rate case settlement, APS committed to operational expense reductions from 2010 through 2014 and received approval to defer certain pension and other postretirement benefit cost increases to be incurred in 2011 and 2012. Depreciation and Amortization Expenses. Depreciation and amortization expenses are impacted by net additions to utility plant and other property (such as new generation, transmission, and distribution facilities), and changes in depreciation and amortization rates. See Capital Expenditures below for information regarding the planned additions to our facilities. We have also applied to the NRC for renewed operating licenses for each of the Palo Verde units. If the NRC grants the extension, we estimate that our annual pretax depreciation expense will decrease by approximately $34 million at the later of the license extension date or January 1, 2012. Property Taxes. Taxes other than income taxes consist primarily of property taxes, which are affected by the value of property in service and under construction, assessment ratios, and tax rates. The average property tax rate for APS, which currently owns the majority of our property, was 8.0% of the assessed value in 2010, 7.5% of the assessed value in 2009 and 7.8% of the assessed value in 2008. We expect property taxes to increase as we add new utility plants (including new generation, transmission and distribution facilities described below under Capital Additions) and as we improve our existing facilities. Income Taxes. Income taxes are affected by the amount of pre tax book income, income tax rates, and certain non taxable items, such as the AFUDC. In addition, income taxes may also be affected by the settlement of issues with taxing authorities. Interest Expense. Interest expense is affected by the amount of debt outstanding and the interest rates on that debt (see Note 6.) The primary factors affecting borrowing levels are expected to be our capital expenditures, long term debt maturities, equity issuances and internally generated cash flow. An allowance for borrowed funds offsets a portion of interest expense while capital projects are under construction. We stop accruing AFUDC on a project when it is placed in commercial operation. 53 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Pinnacle Wests reportable business segment is our regulated electricity segment, which consists of traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electricity service to Native Load customers) and related activities and includes electricity generation, transmission and distribution. Our reportable business segments reflect a change from previously reported information. As of December 31, 2010, our real estate activities are no longer considered a segment requiring separate reporting or disclosure. In 2009 our real estate subsidiary, SunCor, began disposing of its homebuilding operations, master planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order to reduce its outstanding debt (see Note 23). At December 31, 2010, SunCor had total remaining assets of about $16 million, which includes approximately $3 million of assets held for sale. Additionally, all of SunCors operations are reflected in discontinued operations. Operating Results 2010 compared with 2009 Our consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders for 2010 was $350 million, compared with $68 million for the comparable prior year period. The improved results were primarily due to lower real estate impairment charges recorded in 2010 compared with the prior year period by SunCor. 54 Table of Contents In addition, regulated electricity segment net income increased approximately $82 million from the prior year period due to increased revenues related to APSs retail rate increases and other factors. Our consolidated results for 2010 also include a gain of $25 million after income taxes related to the sale of APSES district cooling business. The following table presents net income (loss) attributable to common shareholders by business segment compared with the prior year period: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Net Change (dollars in millions) Regulated Electricity Segment: Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses $ 2,134 $ 1,970 $ 164 Operations and maintenance (870 ) (822 ) (48 ) Depreciation and amortization (415 ) (407 ) (8 ) Taxes other than income taxes (135 ) (123 ) (12 ) Other income (expenses), net (4 ) (2 ) (2 ) Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction (204 ) (212 ) 8 Income taxes (161 ) (142 ) (19 ) Noncontrolling interests (Note 20) (20 ) (19 ) (1 ) Regulated electricity segment net income 325 243 82 All other (a) 5 (10 ) 15 Income from Continuing Operations Attributable to Common Shareholders 330 233 97 Discontinued real estate activities, primarily impairment charges at SunCor (Note 23) (6 ) (167 ) 161 All other discontinued operations (b) 26 2 24 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations Attributable to Common Shareholders 20 (165 ) 185 Net Income Attributable to Common Shareholders $ 350 $ 68 $ 282 (a) Includes activities related to APSES and El Dorado. None of the activities of either of these companies constitutes a reportable segment. (b) Income from discontinued operations for 2010 includes a gain of $25 million after income taxes related to the sale of APSES district cooling business. 55 Table of Contents Regulated electricity segment This section includes a discussion of major variances in income and expense amounts for the regulated electricity segment. Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses Regulated electricity segment operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses were $164 million higher for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year. The following table describes the major components of this change: Increase (Decrease) Fuel and purchased Operating power revenues expenses Net change (dollars in millions) Retail regulatory settlement effective January 1, 2010: Retail base rate increases, net of deferrals $ 269 $ 128 $ 141 Line extension revenues (Note 3) 19 19 Transmission rate increases 6 6 Higher demand side management and renewable energy surcharges (substantially offset in operations and maintenance expense) 33 2 31 Higher fuel and purchased power costs offset by the effects of higher off system sales, net of related PSA deferrals 28 26 2 Lower retail revenues related to recovery of PSA deferrals, substantially offset by lower amortization of fuel and purchased power expense (270 ) (276 ) 6 Lower retail sales primarily due to lower usage per customer, including the effects of the Companys energy efficiency programs, but excluding the effects of weather (28 ) (9 ) (19 ) Effects of weather on retail sales, primarily due to milder weather in the second quarter 2010 (20 ) (6 ) (14 ) Miscellaneous items, net (5 ) 3 (8 ) Total $ 32 $ (132 ) $ 164 Operations and maintenance Operations and maintenance expenses increased $48 million for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year primarily because of: An increase of $25 million related to demand side management and renewable energy programs, which are primarily offset in operating revenues; An increase of $18 million related to employee benefits costs; and An increase of $5 million related to other miscellaneous factors. 56 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses were $8 million higher for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year primarily because of increased plant in service partially offset by lower depreciation rates. Taxes other than income taxes Taxes other than income taxes increased $12 million for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher property tax rates in the current year. Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction, decreased $8 million for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher rates in the current year for the allowance for equity and borrowed funds used during construction, partially offset by higher interest charges due to higher debt balances. Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction are comprised of the regulated electricity segment portions of the line items interest expense and allowance for equity and borrowed funds used during construction from the Consolidated Statements of Income. Income taxes Income taxes were $19 million higher for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher pretax income in the current year period, partially offset by $17 million of income tax benefits related to prior years that were resolved in the current year. See Note 4. All other All other revenues increased $56 million partially offset by increased other expenses of $41 million resulting primarily from improved margins from APSES products and services business. In addition, other income was higher due to investment losses at El Dorado in 2009. Discontinued Operations Real estate activities During the first quarter of 2009, SunCors Board of Directors authorized a series of strategic transactions to dispose of SunCors assets. This decision resulted in impairment charges of approximately $161 million after income taxes in 2009. As of December 31, 2010, all of SunCors operations have been reclassified to discontinued operations (see Note 22). The after tax impacts of the $6 million loss from real estate activities for the year ended 2010 includes real estate impairment charges of approximately $10 million (see Note 23) and other costs of $6 million, partially offset by a gain from debt restructuring of approximately $10 million (see Note 6). All other All other earnings from discontinued operations were $24 million higher for the year ended 2010 compared to the prior year period primarily because of a gain of $25 million after income taxes related to the sale of APSES district cooling business in 2010. Operating Results 2009 Compared with 2008 Our consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders for 2009 was $68 million, compared with $242 million for the prior year period. The decrease in net income was primarily due to 2009 real estate impairment charges recorded by SunCor, the Companys real estate subsidiary. 57 Table of Contents In addition, regulated electricity segment net income decreased approximately $13 million from the prior year primarily due to lower retail sales resulting from lower usage per customer; higher interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs; higher depreciation and amortization expenses; and the absence of income tax benefits related to prior years recorded in 2008. These negative factors were partially offset by increased revenues due to an interim rate increase effective January 1, 2009 and transmission rate increases. The following table presents net income attributable to common shareholders by business segment compared with the prior year: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Net Change (dollars in millions) Regulated Electricity Segment: Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses $ 1,970 $ 1,843 $ 127 Operations and maintenance (822 ) (756 ) (66 ) Depreciation and amortization (407 ) (391 ) (16 ) Taxes other than income taxes (123 ) (125 ) 2 Other income (expenses), net (2 ) (21 ) 19 Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction (212 ) (185 ) (27 ) Income taxes (142 ) (92 ) (50 ) Noncontrolling interests (Note 20) (19 ) (17 ) (2 ) Regulated electricity segment net income 243 256 (13 ) All other (a) (10 ) 5 (15 ) Income from Continuing Operations Attributable to Common Shareholders 233 261 (28 ) Discontinued real estate activities, primarily impairment charges at SunCor (Note 23) (167 ) (26 ) (141 ) All other discontinued operations (a) 2 7 (5 ) Loss from Discontinued Operations Attributable to Common Shareholders (165 ) (19 ) (146 ) Net Income Attributable to Common Shareholders $ 68 $ 242 $ (174 ) (a) Includes activities related to marketing and trading, APSES and El Dorado. Income for 2008 includes income from discontinued operations of $8 million related to the resolution of certain tax issues associated with the sale of Silverhawk Power Station (Silverhawk) in 2005. None of these segments is a reportable segment. Regulated electricity segment This section includes a discussion of major variances in income and expense amounts for the regulated electricity segment. 58 Table of Contents Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses Regulated electricity segment operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses were $127 million higher for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year. The following table describes the major components of this change: Increase (Decrease) Fuel and purchased Operating power revenues expenses Net change (dollars in millions) Higher renewable energy and demand side management surcharges (substantially offset in operations and maintenance expense) $ 63 $ $ 63 Interim retail rate increases effective January 1, 2009 61 61 Transmission rate increases 21 21 Increased mark to market valuations of fuel and purchased power contracts related to favorable changes in market prices, net of related PSA deferrals (18 ) 18 Effects of weather on retail sales, primarily due to hotter weather in the third quarter of 2009 12 3 9 Lower retail sales primarily due to lower usage per customer, including the effects of the Companys energy efficiency programs, but excluding the effects of weather (58 ) (26 ) (32 ) Higher fuel and purchased power costs including the effects of lower off system sales, net of related PSA deferrals (30 ) (19 ) (11 ) Lower retail revenues related to recovery of PSA deferrals, offset by lower amortization of the same amount recorded as fuel and purchased power expense (see Note 3) (36 ) (36 ) Miscellaneous items, net (11 ) (9 ) (2 ) Total $ 22 $ (105 ) $ 127 Operations and maintenance Operations and maintenance expenses increased $66 million for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of: An increase of $62 million related to renewable energy and demand side management programs, which are offset in operating revenues; An increase of $29 million in generation costs, including more planned maintenance, partially offset by lower costs at Palo Verde due to cost efficiency measures; and A decrease of $25 million associated with cost saving measures and other factors, including the absence of employee severance costs in 2009. 59 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $16 million for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of increases in utility plant in service. The increases in utility plant in service are the result of various improvements to APSs existing fossil and nuclear generating plants and distribution and transmission infrastructure additions and upgrades. Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction increased $27 million for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher debt balances, partially offset by the effects of lower interest rates (see discussion related to APSs debt issuances in Pinnacle West Consolidated Liquidity and Capital Resources below). Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction are comprised of the regulated electricity segment portions of the line items interest expense and allowance for equity and borrowed funds used during construction from the Consolidated Statements of Income. Other income (expenses), net Other income (expenses), net improved $19 million for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of improved investment gains. Other income (expenses), net is comprised of the regulated electricity segment portions of the line items other income and other expense from the Consolidated Statements of Income. Income taxes Income taxes were $50 million higher for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of $30 million of income tax benefits related to prior years recorded in 2008 and higher pretax income. See Note 4. All other All other earnings from continuing operations were $15 million lower for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of planned reductions of marketing and trading activities. Discontinued operations Real estate activities During the first quarter of 2009, we decided to sell substantially all of SunCors assets to reduce its outstanding debt. The loss from real estate activities attributable to common shareholders was $141 million higher for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of an increase in real estate impairment charges of $213 million before income taxes (see Note 23 for details of the impairment charges). All other All other earnings from discontinued operations were $5 million lower for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of the absence of the 2008 resolution of certain tax issues associated with the sale of Silverhawk in 2005. 60 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows Pinnacle West Consolidated The following table presents net cash provided by (used for) operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in millions): 2010 2009 2008 Net cash flow provided by operating activities $ 750 $ 1,067 $ 848 Net cash flow used for investing activities (576 ) (705 ) (815 ) Net cash flow provided by (used for) financing activities (209 ) (322 ) 16 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (35 ) $ 40 $ 49 2010 Compared with 2009 The decrease of approximately $317 million in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to voluntary pension contributions in 2010 of approximately $200 million, changes in collateral and margin cash provided as a result of changes in commodity prices and other changes in working capital. The decrease of approximately $129 million in net cash used for investing activities is primarily due to approximately $100 million of proceeds from the sale of the district cooling business in June 2010 and the increase in proceeds from the sale of commercial real estate investments of approximately $29 million. The decrease of approximately $113 million in net cash used for financing activities is primarily due to lower repayments of short term borrowings in 2010 due to lower short term debt balances partially offset by lower net sources of equity and long term debt financing, including the proceeds of approximately $253 million from the issuance of equity in April 2010 and APSs issuance of $500 million of unsecured senior notes in 2009. 2009 Compared with 2008 The increase of approximately $219 million in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to a reduction of collateral and margin cash required as a result of changes in commodity prices and a 2009 income tax refund (see Note 4). The decrease of approximately $110 million in net cash used for investing activities is primarily due to lower levels of capital expenditures net of contributions (see table and discussion below), partially offset by lower real estate sales primarily due to a commercial property sale in 2008. The increase of approximately $338 million in net cash used for financing activities is primarily due to repayments of short term borrowings, partially offset by APSs issuance of $500 million of unsecured senior notes. 61 Table of Contents Cash Flows Arizona Public Service Company The following table presents APSs net cash provided by (used for) operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in millions): 2010 2009 2008 Net cash flow provided by operating activities $ 695 $ 995 $ 820 Net cash flow used for investing activities (747 ) (738 ) (879 ) Net cash flow provided by (used for) financing activities 31 (208 ) 79 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (21 ) $ 49 $ 20 2010 Compared with 2009 The decrease of approximately $300 million in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to voluntary pension contributions in 2010 of approximately $200 million, increased collateral and margin cash provided as a result of changes in commodity prices, and the payment of income taxes in 2010. These were partially offset by other changes in working capital. The increase of approximately $9 million in net cash used for investing activities is primarily due to lower contributions in aid of construction and other cash flows. The decrease of approximately $239 million in net cash used for financing activities is primarily due to the repayment of short term borrowings in 2009, partially offset by lower net sources of equity and long term debt financing including the proceeds of approximately $253 million from the infusion of equity from Pinnacle West in 2010 and by APSs issuance of $500 million of unsecured senior notes in 2009. 2009 Compared with 2008 The increase of approximately $175 million in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to a reduction of collateral and margin cash required as a result of changes in commodity prices. The decrease of approximately $141 million in net cash used for investing activities is primarily due to lower levels of capital expenditures net of contributions. The increase of approximately $287 million in net cash used for financing activities is primarily due to repayments of short term borrowings, partially offset by APSs issuance of $500 million of unsecured senior notes (see Note 6). 62 Table of Contents Liquidity Capital Expenditure Requirements The following table summarizes the actual capital expenditures for 2008, 2009 and 2010 and estimated capital expenditures for the next three years: CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (dollars in millions) Actual Estimated 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 APS Generation: Nuclear Fuel $ 47 $ 64 $ 63 $ 65 $ 68 $ 69 Renewables 6 236 179 90 Environmental 96 33 11 11 22 122 Four Corners Units 4 and 5 294 Other Generation 167 144 172 144 152 107 Distribution 340 246 232 284 350 285 Transmission 163 193 120 143 220 248 Other (a) 43 52 62 78 49 41 Total APS 856 732 666 961 1,334 962 Other 48 13 4 Total $ 904 $ 745 $ 670 $ 961 $ 1,334 $ 962 (a) Primarily information systems and facilities projects. Generation capital expenditures are comprised of various improvements to APSs existing fossil and nuclear plants. Examples of the types of projects included in this category are additions, upgrades and capital replacements of various power plant equipment, such as turbines, boilers and environmental equipment. Included under Renewables is the AZ Sun Program, which is a significant component of the increase in capital expenditures from 2010 to 2011. For purposes of this table, we have assumed the consummation of APSs purchase of SCEs interest in Four Corners Units 4 and 5 and the subsequent shut down of Units 1 3, as discussed in the Overview section above. As a result, we included the $294 million purchase price under Generation and have not included environmental expenditures for Units 1 3. We are also monitoring the status of certain environmental matters, which, depending on their final outcome, could require modification to our environmental expenditures. (See Business of Arizona Public Service Company Environmental Matters EPA Environmental Regulation Regional Haze Rules, Mercury and Other Hazardous Air Pollutants and Coal Combustion Waste in Item 1.) Distribution and transmission capital expenditures are comprised of infrastructure additions and upgrades, capital replacements, new customer construction, related information systems and facility costs. Examples of the types of projects included in the forecast include power lines, substations, line extensions to new residential and commercial developments and upgrades to customer information systems. Capital expenditures will be funded with internally generated cash and external financings, which may include issuances of long term debt and Pinnacle West common stock. 63 Table of Contents Pinnacle West (Parent Company) Our primary cash needs are for dividends to our shareholders and principal and interest payments on our short term and long term debt. The level of our common stock dividends and future dividend growth will be dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, payout ratio trends, free cash flow and financial market conditions. On January 19, 2011, the Pinnacle West Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share of common stock, payable on March 1, 2011, to shareholders of record on February 1, 2011. Our primary sources of cash are dividends from APS, external debt and equity financings. For the years 2008 through 2010, total distributions from APS were $522 million and there were no distributions from SunCor. For 2010, cash distributions from APS were $182 million. An existing ACC order requires APS to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40%. As defined in the ACC order, the common equity ratio is total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long term debt, including current maturities of long term debt. At December 31, 2010, APSs common equity ratio, as defined, was 53%. Its total shareholder equity was approximately $3.8 billion, and total capitalization was approximately $7.2 billion. APS would be prohibited from paying dividends if the payment would reduce its total shareholder equity below approximately $2.9 billion, assuming APSs total capitalization remains the same. Based on the discussion above, this restriction does not materially affect Pinnacle Wests ability to meet its ongoing capital requirements. Pinnacle West and APS maintain committed revolving credit facilities in order to enhance liquidity and provide credit support for the commercial paper programs. During the first quarter of 2010, Pinnacle West and APS refinanced existing credit facilities that would have otherwise matured in December 2010. On February 12, 2010, Pinnacle West refinanced its $283 million revolving credit facility that would have matured in December 2010, and decreased the size of the facility to $200 million. The new facility matures in February 2013. Pinnacle West has the option to increase the amount of the facility up to a maximum of $300 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders. Pinnacle West will use the facility for general corporate purposes, commercial paper program support and for the issuance of letters of credit. Interest rates are based on Pinnacle Wests senior unsecured debt credit ratings. As a result of the downsized credit facility, the Company also reduced the size of its commercial paper program to $200 million from $250 million. At December 31, 2010, the $200 million credit facility was available to support the issuance of up to $183 million in commercial paper or for bank borrowings, including issuances of letters of credit up to $183 million. At December 31, 2010, Pinnacle West had no outstanding borrowings under this credit facility, $17 million of commercial paper borrowings and no outstanding letters of credit. 64 Table of Contents In April 2010, Pinnacle West issued 6,900,000 shares of common stock at an offering price of $38.00 per share, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $253 million. Pinnacle West contributed all of the net proceeds from this offering into APS in the form of equity infusions. APS has used these contributions to repay short term indebtedness, to finance capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes. Pinnacle West intends to issue equity to provide most of the funds for the equity infusions into APS required by the retail rate case settlement. Such equity issuances may occur at any time in the period through 2014, at Pinnacle Wests discretion. See Note 3. In June 2010, Pinnacle West received approximately $100 million related to the sale of APSES district cooling business. The net proceeds were used to repay short term indebtedness. Pinnacle West expects to receive approximately $132 million of cash tax benefits related to SunCors strategic asset sales (see Note 23), a majority of which have been realized as of December 31, 2010. Approximately $7 million of these benefits were recorded in 2010 as reductions to income tax expense related to the current impairment charges. The additional $125 million of tax benefits were recorded as reductions to income tax expense related to SunCor impairment charges recorded on or before December 31, 2009. The $68 million income tax receivables on the Consolidated Balance Sheets represent the anticipated refunds related to an APS tax accounting method change approved by the IRS in the third quarter of 2009 and the current year tax benefits related to the SunCor strategic asset sales that closed in 2010. The Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010 includes provisions making qualified property placed into service after September 8, 2010 and before January 1, 2012 eligible for 100% bonus depreciation for federal income tax purposes. In addition, qualified property placed into service in 2012 is eligible for 50% bonus depreciation for federal income tax purposes. These provisions of the recent tax legislation are expected to generate approximately $450 500 million of cash tax benefits for APS through accelerated depreciation. It is anticipated that these cash benefits will be fully realized by APS by the end of 2013, with a majority of the benefit realized in 2012 and 2013. The cash generated is an acceleration of tax benefits that APS would have otherwise received over 20 years. Pinnacle West sponsors a qualified defined benefit and account balance pension plan and a non qualified supplemental excess benefit retirement plan for the employees of Pinnacle West and our subsidiaries. IRS regulations require us to contribute a minimum amount to the qualified plan. We contribute at least the minimum amount required under IRS regulations, but no more than the maximum tax deductible amount. The minimum required funding takes into consideration the value of plan assets and our pension obligation. The assets in the plan are comprised of fixed income, equity, real estate, and short term investments. Future year contribution amounts are dependent on plan asset performance and plan actuarial assumptions. During 2010, we made voluntary contributions of $200 million to our pension plan. The required minimum contribution to our pension plan is zero in 2011 and approximately $85 million in 2012. The contribution to our other postretirement benefit plans in 2010 was approximately $17 million. The contributions to our other postretirement benefit plans for 2011 and 2012 are expected to be approximately $20 million each year. APS and other subsidiaries fund their share of the contributions. APSs share is approximately 98% of both plans. 65 Table of Contents APS APSs capital requirements consist primarily of capital expenditures and maturities of long term debt. APS funds its capital requirements with cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, external debt financing and equity infusions from Pinnacle West. See Pinnacle West (Parent Company) above for a discussion of the common equity ratio that APS must maintain in order to pay dividends to Pinnacle West. On February 12, 2010, APS refinanced its $377 million credit facility that would have matured in December 2010, and increased the size of the facility to $500 million. The new credit facility terminates in February 2013. APS may increase the amount of the facility up to a maximum of $700 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders. APS will use the facility for general corporate purposes, commercial paper program support and for the issuance of letters of credit. Interest rates are based on APSs senior unsecured debt credit ratings. On February 14, 2011, APS refinanced its $489 million credit facility that would have matured in September 2011, and increased the size of the facility to $500 million. The new credit facility terminates in February 2015. APS may increase the amount of the facility up to a maximum of $700 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders. APS will use the facility for general corporate purposes, commercial paper program support and for the issuance of letters of credit. Interest rates are based on APSs senior unsecured debt credit ratings. At December 31, 2010, APS had two credit facilities totaling $989 million, consisting of the $500 million and $489 million credit facilities described above. These facilities were available either to support the issuance of up to $250 million in commercial paper, or for bank borrowings, including issuances of letters of credit up to $989 million. At December 31, 2010, APS had no borrowings outstanding under any of its credit facilities and no outstanding commercial paper. A $20 million letter of credit was issued under APSs $489 million credit facility in the second quarter of 2010. On July 13, 2010, APS changed the interest rate mode for the approximately $33 million of Coconino County, Arizona Pollution Control Corporation Pollution Control Revenue Bonds (Arizona Public Service Company Navajo Project) 1994 Series A, due 2029. The rate period for the bonds changed from a daily rate mode, supported by a letter of credit, to a three year term rate mode that will bear interest at a rate of 3.625% per annum for three years. The letter of credit was terminated in connection with this change, and there is no bank or other third party credit support for the bonds in the term rate mode. On August 10, 2010, APS changed the letter of credit supporting the approximately $17 million of Coconino County, Arizona Pollution Control Corporation Pollution Control Revenue Bonds (Arizona Public Service Company Project) Series 1998, due 2033. The bonds were in a daily rate mode supported by a prior letter of credit and remain in a daily rate mode, supported by a new three year letter of credit expiring in August 2013. 66 Table of Contents On October 12, 2010, APS changed the interest rate mode for the approximately $147 million of City of Farmington, New Mexico Pollution Control Revenue Refunding Bonds (Arizona Public Service Company Four Corners Project) 1994 Series A and 1994 Series B, due 2024 and City of Farmington, New Mexico Pollution Control Revenue Bonds (Arizona Public Service Company Four Corners Project) 1994 Series C, due 2024. The rate period for the 1994 Series A bonds and the 1994 Series B bonds changed from a daily rate mode, supported by letters of credit, to a term rate mode to maturity, subject to optional redemption after year ten, that will bear interest at a rate of 4.70% per annum until maturity in 2024 unless the optional redemption is exercised by APS. The rate period for the 1994 Series C bonds changed from a daily rate mode, supported by a letter of credit, to a three year term rate mode that will bear interest at a rate of 2.875% per annum until October 2013. The letters of credit supporting each of these three series of bonds were terminated in connection with these changes, and there is no bank or other third party credit support for any of these bonds. On January 1, 2010, due to the adoption of amended accounting guidance relating to VIEs, APS began consolidating the Palo Verde Lessor Trusts (see Note 20) and, as a result of consolidation of these VIEs, APS has reported the Lessor Trusts long term debt on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. Interest rates on these debt instruments are 8% and are fixed for the remaining life of the debt. As of December 31, 2010 approximately $29 million was classified as current maturities of long term debt and $97 million was classified as long term debt relating to these VIEs. These debt instruments mature on December 30, 2015 and have sinking fund features that are serviced by the lease payments. See Note 20 for additional discussion of the VIEs. Other Financing Matters See Note 3 for information regarding the PSA approved by the ACC. Although APS defers actual retail fuel and purchased power costs on a current basis, APSs recovery of the deferrals from its ratepayers is subject to annual and, if necessary, periodic PSA adjustments. See Note 3 for information regarding the retail rate case settlement, which includes ACC authorization and requirements of equity infusions into APS of at least $700 million by December 31, 2014. See Note 18 for information related to the change in our margin accounts. Other Subsidiaries SunCor In 2010, SunCor sold land parcels, commercial assets and master planned home building communities for approximately $72 million, which approximated the carrying value of these assets, resulting in a net gain of zero. In connection with these sales, SunCor negotiated a restructuring of certain of its credit facilities. The debt restructuring resulted in an after tax gain of approximately $10 million. At December 31, 2010, SunCor had total remaining assets of about $16 million, which includes approximately $3 million of assets held for sale. At December 31, 2010, SunCor had no debt outstanding. El Dorado El Dorado expects minimal capital requirements over the next three years and intends to focus on prudently realizing the value of its existing investments. APSES APSES expects minimal capital expenditures over the next three years. Debt Provisions Pinnacle Wests and APSs debt covenants related to their respective bank financing arrangements include maximum debt to capitalization ratios. Pinnacle West and APS comply with this covenant and each anticipates it will continue to meet this and other significant covenant requirements. For both Pinnacle West and APS, this covenant requires that the ratio of consolidated debt to total consolidated capitalization not exceed 65%. At December 31, 2010, the ratio was approximately 49% for Pinnacle West and 46% for APS. Failure to comply with such covenant levels would result in an event of default which, generally speaking, would require the immediate repayment of the debt subject to the covenants and could cross default other debt. See further discussion of cross default provisions below. 67 Table of Contents Neither Pinnacle Wests nor APSs financing agreements contain rating triggers that would result in an acceleration of the required interest and principal payments in the event of a rating downgrade. However, our bank credit agreements contain a pricing grid in which the interest rates we pay for borrowings thereunder are determined by our current credit ratings. All of Pinnacle Wests loan agreements contain cross default provisions that would result in defaults and the potential acceleration of payment under these loan agreements if Pinnacle West or APS were to default under certain other material agreements. All of APSs bank agreements contain cross default provisions that would result in defaults and the potential acceleration of payment under these bank agreements if APS were to default under certain other material agreements. Pinnacle West and APS do not have a material adverse change restriction for credit facilities borrowings. See Notes 5 and 6 for further discussions of liquidity matters. Credit Ratings The ratings of securities of Pinnacle West and APS as of February 17, 2011 are shown below. The ratings reflect the respective views of the rating agencies, from which an explanation of the significance of their ratings may be obtained. There is no assurance that these ratings will continue for any given period of time. The ratings may be revised or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies if, in their respective judgments, circumstances so warrant. Any downward revision or withdrawal may adversely affect the market price of Pinnacle Wests or APSs securities and or result in an increase in the cost of, or limit access to, capital. Such revisions may also result in substantial additional cash or other collateral requirements related to certain derivative instruments, insurance policies, natural gas transportation, fuel supply, and other energy related contracts. At this time, we believe we have sufficient liquidity to cover a downward revision to our credit ratings. Moodys Standard Poors Fitch Pinnacle West Senior unsecured (a) Baa3 (P) BB (prelim) N/A Commercial paper P 3 A 3 F3 Outlook Stable Positive Stable APS Senior unsecured Baa2 BBB BBB Secured lease obligation bonds Baa2 BBB BBB Commercial paper P 2 A 3 F3 Outlook Stable Positive Stable (a) Pinnacle West has a shelf registration under SEC Rule 415. Pinnacle West currently has no outstanding, rated senior unsecured securities. However, Moodys assigned a provisional (P) rating and Standard Poors assigned a preliminary (prelim) rating to the senior unsecured securities that can be issued under such shelf registration. 68 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On January 1, 2010 we adopted amended accounting guidance relating to VIEs and, as a result, we have consolidated certain entities which were previously not consolidated. The consolidation of these entities has impacted our consolidated financial statements. See Notes 1, 2 and 20 for a discussion of these impacts. Guarantees and Surety Bonds We have issued parental guarantees and obtained surety bonds on behalf of our subsidiaries including credit support instruments enabling APSES to offer energy related products and surety bonds at APS, principally related to self insured workers compensation. Non performance or non payment under the underlying contract by our subsidiaries would result in a payment liability on our part under the guarantee or surety bond. No liability is currently recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to such instruments. At December 31, 2010, we had no outstanding claims for payment under any of these instruments. Our guarantees and surety bonds have no recourse or collateral provisions to allow us to recover amounts paid under these instruments or surety bonds from our subsidiaries. We generally agree to indemnification provisions related to liabilities arising from or related to certain of our agreements, with limited exceptions depending on the particular agreement. See Note 21 for additional information regarding guarantees and letters of credit. 69 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes Pinnacle Wests consolidated contractual requirements as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in millions): 2012 2014 2011 2013 2015 Thereafter Total Long term debt payments, including interest: (a) APS $ 673 $ 949 $ 1,071 $ 2,587 $ 5,280 Pinnacle West 177 177 Total long term debt payments, including interest and capital lease obligations 850 949 1,071 2,587 5,457 Short term debt payments, including interest (b) 17 17 Fuel and purchased power commitments (c) 381 824 1,070 7,084 9,359 Operating lease payments 24 38 27 9 98 Nuclear decommissioning funding requirements 24 49 49 137 259 Renewable energy credits (d) 57 40 40 196 333 Purchase obligations (e) 214 125 117 456 Noncontrolling interests 10 28 55 93 Total contractual commitments $ 1,577 $ 2,053 $ 2,312 $ 10,130 $ 16,072 (a) The long term debt matures at various dates through 2038 and bears interest principally at fixed rates. Interest on variable rate long term debt is determined by using average rates at December 31, 2010 (see Note 6). (b) The short term debt represents commercial paper borrowings at Pinnacle West (see Note 5). (c) Our fuel and purchased power commitments include purchases of coal, electricity, natural gas, renewable energy and nuclear fuel (see Notes 3 and 11). (d) Contracts to purchase renewable energy credits in compliance with the Renewable Energy Standard. (e) These contractual obligations include commitments for capital expenditures and other obligations. These amounts do not include the purchase of SCEs interest in Four Corners Units 4 and 5 due to additional approvals required. See discussion in Overview. This table excludes $133 million in unrecognized tax benefits because the timing of the future cash outflows is uncertain. This table also excludes $85 million in estimated minimum pension contributions in 2012 (see Note 8). CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES In preparing the financial statements in accordance with GAAP, management must often make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements and during the reporting period. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and actual results could differ from those estimates. We consider the following accounting policies to be our most critical because of the uncertainties, judgments and complexities of the underlying accounting standards and operations involved. 70 Table of Contents Regulatory Accounting Regulatory accounting allows for the actions of regulators, such as the ACC and the FERC, to be reflected in our financial statements. Their actions may cause us to capitalize costs that would otherwise be included as an expense in the current period by unregulated companies. Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that have been deferred because they are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent expected future costs that have already been collected from customers. Management continually assesses whether our regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory environment changes and recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction. This determination reflects the current political and regulatory climate in the state and is subject to change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the assets would be written off as a charge in current period earnings. We had $1.0 billion of regulatory assets and $753 million of regulatory liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2010. Included in the balance of regulatory assets at December 31, 2010 is a regulatory asset of $669 million for pension and other postretirement benefits. This regulatory asset represents the future recovery of these costs through retail rates as these amounts are charged to earnings. If these costs are disallowed by the ACC, this regulatory asset would be charged to OCI and result in lower future earnings. See Notes 1 and 3 for more information. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Accounting Changes in our actuarial assumptions used in calculating our pension and other postretirement benefit liability and expense can have a significant impact on our earnings and financial position. The most relevant actuarial assumptions are the discount rate used to measure our liability and net periodic cost, the expected long term rate of return on plan assets used to estimate earnings on invested funds over the long term, and the assumed healthcare cost trend rates. We review these assumptions on an annual basis and adjust them as necessary. 71 Table of Contents The following chart reflects the sensitivities that a change in certain actuarial assumptions would have had on the December 31, 2010 reported pension liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and our 2010 reported pension expense, after consideration of amounts capitalized or billed to electric plant participants, on Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Statements of Income (dollars in millions): Increase (Decrease) Impact on Impact on Pension Pension Actuarial Assumption (a) Liability Expense Discount rate: Increase 1% $ (261 ) $ (8 ) Decrease 1% 294 10 Expected long term rate of return on plan assets: Increase 1% (7 ) Decrease 1% 7 (a) Each fluctuation assumes that the other assumptions of the calculation are held constant while the rates are changed by one percentage point. The following chart reflects the sensitivities that a change in certain actuarial assumptions would have had on the December 31, 2010 reported other postretirement benefit obligation on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and our 2010 reported other postretirement benefit expense, after consideration of amounts capitalized or billed to electric plant participants, on Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Statements of Income (dollars in millions): Increase (Decrease) Impact on Other Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Postretirement Actuarial Assumption (a) Obligation Benefit Expense Discount rate: Increase 1% $ (118 ) $ (5 ) Decrease 1% 138 6 Health care cost trend rate (b): Increase 1% 134 9 Decrease 1% (107 ) (7 ) Expected long term rate of return on plan assets pretax: Increase 1% (2 ) Decrease 1% 2 (a) Each fluctuation assumes that the other assumptions of the calculation are held constant while the rates are changed by one percentage point. (b) This assumes a 1% change in the initial and ultimate health care cost trend rate. See Note 8 for further details about our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. 72 Table of Contents Derivative Accounting Derivative accounting requires evaluation of rules that are complex and subject to varying interpretations. Our evaluation of these rules, as they apply to our contracts, determines whether we use accrual accounting (for contracts designated as normal) or fair value (mark to market) accounting. Mark to market accounting requires that changes in the fair value are recognized periodically in income unless certain hedge criteria are met. For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognized in common stock equity (as a component of other comprehensive income (loss)) and the ineffective portion is recognized in current earnings. See Market Risks Commodity Price Risk below for quantitative analysis. See Fair Value Measurements below for additional information on valuation. See Note 1 for discussion on accounting policies and Note 18 for a further discussion on derivative accounting. Fair Value Measurements We apply recurring fair value measurements to derivative instruments, nuclear decommissioning trusts, certain cash equivalents and plan assets held in our retirement and other benefit plans. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. We use inputs, or assumptions that market participants would use, to determine fair market value. The significance of a particular input determines how the instrument is classified in the fair value hierarchy. We utilize valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The determination of fair value sometimes requires subjective and complex judgment. Our assessment of the inputs and the significance of a particular input to fair value measurement may affect the valuation of the instruments and their placement within the fair value hierarchy. Actual results could differ from our estimates of fair value. See Note 14 for further fair value measurement discussion, Note 1 for discussion on accounting policies and Note 18 for a further discussion on derivative accounting. Our nuclear decommissioning trusts invest in fixed income securities and equity securities. The fair values of these securities are based on observable inputs for identical or similar assets. See Note 14 for further discussion of our nuclear decommissioning trusts. Real Estate Investment Impairments While we do not have any real estate investments or home inventory at December 31, 2010, we did have real estate investments of $120 million and $3 million of home inventory on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2009. For purposes of evaluating impairment, in accordance with guidance on the impairment and disposal of long lived assets, we classified our real estate assets, such as land under development, land held for future development, and commercial property, as held and used. When events or changes in circumstances indicated that the carrying value of real estate assets considered held and used were not recoverable, we compared the undiscounted cash flows that we estimated would be generated by each asset to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount exceeded the undiscounted cash flows, we adjusted the asset to fair value and recognized an impairment charge. The adjusted value became the new book value (carrying amount) for held and used assets. We may have had real estate assets classified as held and used with fair values that were lower than their carrying amounts, but were not deemed to be impaired because the undiscounted cash flows exceeded the carrying amounts. 73 Table of Contents Real estate home inventory was considered to be held for sale for the purposes of evaluating impairment. Home inventories were reported at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. Fair value less cost to sell was evaluated each period to determine if it had changed. Losses (and gains not to exceed any cumulative loss previously recognized) were reported as adjustments to the carrying amount. We determined fair value for our real estate assets primarily based on the future cash flows that we estimated would be generated by each asset discounted for market risk. Our impairment assessments and fair value determinations required significant judgment regarding key assumptions such as future sales prices, future construction and land development costs, future sales timing, and discount rates. The assumptions were specific to each project and may have varied among projects. The discount rates we used to determine fair values at December 31, 2009 ranged from 11% to 29%. Due to the judgment and assumptions applied in the estimation process, with regard to impairments, it is possible that actual results could have differed from those estimates. OTHER ACCOUNTING MATTERS On January 1, 2010 we adopted amended accounting guidance relating to VIEs and, as a result, we have consolidated certain entities which were previously not consolidated. The consolidation of these entities has impacted our consolidated financial statements. See Notes 1, 2 and 20 for a discussion of these impacts. The FASB is currently working on several significant projects with the desire to converge GAAP with IFRS. These projects include accounting for leases, revenue recognition, and financial instruments, among other items. Concurrently, the SEC is considering mandating IFRS for U.S. companies. See Note 2 for a discussion of these potential changes. MARKET AND CREDIT RISKS Market Risks Our operations include managing market risks related to changes in interest rates, commodity prices and investments held by our nuclear decommissioning trust fund. Interest Rate and Equity Risk We have exposure to changing interest rates. Changing interest rates will affect interest paid on variable rate debt and the market value of fixed income securities held by our nuclear decommissioning trust fund (see Note 14). The nuclear decommissioning trust fund also has risks associated with the changing market value of its investments. Nuclear decommissioning costs are recovered in regulated electricity prices. 74 Table of Contents The tables below present contractual balances of our consolidated long term and short term debt at the expected maturity dates as well as the fair value of those instruments on December 31, 2010 and 2009. The interest rates presented in the tables below represent the weighted average interest rates as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in thousands): Pinnacle West Consolidated Variable Rate Fixed Rate Short Term Debt Long Term Debt Long Term Debt Interest Interest Interest 2010 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount 2011 0.84 % $ 16,600 0.32 % $ 26,710 6.32 % $ 605,169 2012 6.41 % 477,435 2013 0.32 % 16,870 4.94 % 122,828 2014 5.91 % 502,274 2015 4.79 % 313,420 Years thereafter 6.69 % 1,619,150 Total $ 16,600 $ 43,580 $ 3,640,276 Fair value $ 16,600 $ 43,580 $ 3,869,681 Pinnacle West Consolidated Variable Rate Fixed Rate Short Term Debt Long Term Debt Long Term Debt Interest Interest Interest 2009 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount 2010 1.09 % $ 153,715 1.66 % $ 276,636 7.90 % $ 26,840 2011 2.00 % 39,967 6.32 % 605,425 2012 5.25 % 38 6.41 % 477,674 2013 5.25 % 1,774 6.77 % 58,912 2014 5.91 % 502,499 Years thereafter 6.46 % 1,817,420 Total $ 153,715 $ 318,415 $ 3,488,770 Fair value $ 153,715 $ 318,415 $ 3,631,585 75 Table of Contents The tables below present contractual balances of APSs long term debt at the expected maturity dates as well as the fair value of those instruments on December 31, 2010 and 2009. The interest rates presented in the tables below represent the weighted average interest rates as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in thousands): APS Consolidated Variable Rate Fixed Rate Long Term Debt Long Term Debt Interest Interest 2010 Rates Amount Rates Amount 2011 0.32 % $ 26,710 6.48 % $ 430,169 2012 6.41 % 477,435 2013 0.32 % 16,870 4.94 % 122,828 2014 5.91 % 502,274 2015 4.79 % 313,420 Years thereafter 6.69 % 1,619,150 Total $ 43,580 $ 3,465,276 Fair value $ 43,580 $ 3,693,276 APS Consolidated Variable Rate Fixed Rate Long Term Debt Long Term Debt Interest Interest 2009 Rates Amount Rates Amount 2010 0.25 % $ 196,170 7.91 % $ 26,789 2011 0.26 % 26,710 6.48 % 430,398 2012 6.41 % 477,654 2013 6.77 % 58,910 2014 5.91 % 502,499 Years thereafter 6.46 % 1,817,420 Total $ 222,880 $ 3,313,670 Fair value $ 222,880 $ 3,451,255 Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the commodity price and transportation costs of electricity and natural gas. Our risk management committee, consisting of officers and key management personnel, oversees company wide energy risk management activities to ensure compliance with our stated energy risk management policies. We manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity instruments that qualify as derivatives, including exchange traded futures and options and over the counter forwards, options and swaps. As part of our risk management program, we use such instruments to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodities. 76 Table of Contents The following table shows the net pretax changes in mark to market of our derivative positions in 2010 and 2009 (dollars in millions): 2010 2009 Mark to market of net positions at beginning of year $ (169 ) $ (282 ) Recognized in earnings: Change in mark to market losses for future period deliveries (7 ) (4 ) Mark to market losses realized including ineffectiveness during the period 5 11 Decrease (increase) in regulatory asset (36 ) 76 Recognized in OCI: Change in mark to market losses for future period deliveries (a) (155 ) (155 ) Mark to market losses realized during the period 123 185 Change in valuation techniques Mark to market of net positions at end of year $ (239 ) $ (169 ) (a) The changes in mark to market recorded in OCI are due primarily to changes in forward natural gas prices. The table below shows the fair value of maturities of our derivative contracts (dollars in millions) at December 31, 2010 by maturities and by the type of valuation that is performed to calculate the fair values. See Note 1, Derivative Accounting and Fair Value Measurements, for more discussion of our valuation methods. Total Years fair Source of Fair Value 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter value Prices actively quoted $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) Prices provided by other external sources (139 ) (47 ) (14 ) (200 ) Prices based on models and other valuation methods (7 ) (4 ) (7 ) (6 ) (6 ) (8 ) (38 ) Total by maturity $ (147 ) $ (51 ) $ (21 ) $ (6 ) $ (6 ) $ (8 ) $ (239 ) 77 Table of Contents The table below shows the impact that hypothetical price movements of 10% would have on the market value of our risk management assets and liabilities included on Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in millions): December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Gain (Loss) Gain (Loss) Price Up 10% Price Down 10% Price Up 10% Price Down 10% Mark to market changes reported in: Earnings Electricity $ $ $ 1 $ (1 ) Natural gas 1 (1 ) 1 (1 ) Regulatory asset (liability) or OCI (a) Electricity 13 (13 ) 21 (21 ) Natural gas 42 (42 ) 59 (59 ) Total $ 56 $ (56 ) $ 82 $ (82 ) (a) These contracts are hedges of our forecasted purchases of natural gas and electricity. The impact of these hypothetical price movements would substantially offset the impact that these same price movements would have on the physical exposures being hedged. To the extent the amounts are eligible for inclusion in the PSA, the amounts are recorded as either a regulatory asset or liability. Credit Risk We are exposed to losses in the event of non performance or non payment by counterparties. See Note 18 for a discussion of our credit valuation adjustment policy. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK See Market and Credit Risks in Item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 78 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS INTRODUCTION The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Financial Statements and APSs Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes that appear in Item 8 of this report. For information on the broad factors that may cause our actual future results to differ from those we currently seek or anticipate, see Forward Looking Statements at the front of this report and Risk Factors in Item 1A. OVERVIEW Pinnacle West owns all of the outstanding common stock of APS. APS is a vertically integrated electric utility that provides either retail or wholesale electric service to most of the state of Arizona, with the major exceptions of about one half of the Phoenix metropolitan area, the Tucson metropolitan area and Mohave County in northwestern Arizona. APS accounts for substantially all of our revenues and earnings, and is expected to continue to do so. Areas of Business Focus Operational Performance, Reliability and Recent Developments. Nuclear. In 2010, Palo Verde achieved its best generation year ever, producing over 31 million megawatt hours, with an overall station capacity factor of 90.5%. The generation from each Palo Verde operating unit directly reflects the stations currently effective 18 month refueling cycle. In 2010, Palo Verde successfully refueled both Unit 1 and Unit 3. As part of the 2010 refueling outages, Palo Verde installed new reactor vessel closure heads and simplified head assembly modifications. These projects are designed to provide safety benefits, eliminate costly inspections and reduce the duration of future outages. Coal and Related Environmental Matters. APS operated coal plants, Four Corners and Cholla, achieved net capacity factors of 82% and 79%, respectively, in 2010. APS is focused on the impacts on its coal fleet that may result from potential legislation and increased regulation concerning greenhouse gas emissions. Recent concern over climate change and other emission related issues could have a significant impact on our capital expenditures and operating costs in the form of taxes, emissions allowances or required equipment upgrades for these plants. APS is closely monitoring its long range capital management plans, understanding that any resulting legislation and regulation could impact the economic viability of certain plants, as well as the willingness or ability of power plant participants to fund any such equipment upgrades. In particular, on October 6, 2010, the EPA issued its proposed determination for Best Available Retrofit Technology (BART) requirements for Four Corners that, as proposed, would require installation of additional pollution control equipment on all five of the plants units. Based on APSs current ownership share of Four Corners, APS currently estimates that its total costs for the proposed controls could be up to approximately $400 million for nitrogen oxide controls and about $220 million for particulate removal equipment. It is currently evaluating the impacts of the proposed determination and intends to submit comments during the EPAs comment period. See Business of Arizona Public Service Company Environmental Matters in Item 1 and environmental and climate change related risks described in Item 1A for additional environmental and climate change developments and risks facing APS. 48 Table of Contents In addition, SCE, a participant in Four Corners, has indicated that certain California legislation may prohibit it from making emission control expenditures at the plant. On November 8, 2010, APS and SCE entered into an asset purchase agreement, providing for the purchase by APS of SCEs 48% interest in each of Units 4 and 5 of Four Corners. The purchase price is $294 million, subject to certain adjustments. Completion of the purchase by APS, which is expected to occur in the second half of 2012, is subject to the receipt of approvals by the ACC, the California Public Utilities Commission and the FERC. APS and SCE filed applications with their respective commissions seeking requisite authority or approvals to complete the transaction. Closing is also conditioned on the execution of a new coal supply contract for the lease renewal period described below, expiration of the waiting period under the Hart Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and other typical closing conditions. APS, on behalf of the Four Corners participants, has negotiated amendments to an existing facility lease with the Navajo Nation which would extend the Four Corners leasehold interest to 2041. Execution by the Navajo Nation of the lease amendments is a condition to closing of the purchase by APS of SCEs interests in Four Corners. The execution of these amendments by the Navajo Nation requires the approval of the Navajo Nation Council, which occurred on February 15, 2011 and is awaiting final signature by the Nations President. The effectiveness of the amendments also requires the approval of the DOI, as does a related Federal rights of way grant which the Four Corners participants will pursue. A Federal environmental review will be conducted as part of the DOI review process. Pursuant to a Co Tenancy Agreement among the Four Corners participants, the other participants have a right of first refusal to purchase shares of SCEs interests proportional to their current ownership percentages. The exercise of this purchase right by any of the other participants must be exercised by March 8, 2011. If any of the purchase rights are exercised, the amount available for purchase by APS would be reduced. At this time APS does not know whether any of the other participants will exercise the right of first refusal. APS has announced that, if APSs purchase of SCEs interests in Units 4 and 5 at Four Corners is consummated, it will close Units 1, 2 and 3 at the plant. These events will change the plants overall generating capacity from 2,100 MW to 1,540 MW and APSs entitlement from the plant from 791 MW to 970 MW. When applying for approval to purchase Units 4 and 5, APS also requested from the ACC recovery of any unrecovered costs associated with the closure of Units 1, 2 and 3. Transmission and Delivery. In the area of transmission and delivery to its customers, APS ranked favorably during 2010, with top quartile performance for average customer outage time and its best reliability year to date. During 2010, APS undertook several significant transmission projects, including the Morgan to Pinnacle Peak transmission line scheduled for completion in 2011. APSs 2011 transmission plan projects that it will invest approximately $450 million in new transmission over the next ten years, which includes 258 miles of new lines. The first three years of these additions are included in the capital expenditures table presented in the Liquidity section below along with other transmission costs for upgrades and replacements. APS is working closely with regulators to identify and plan for transmission needs resulting from the current focus on renewable energy. APS is also working to establish and expand smart grid technology throughout its service territory designed to provide long term benefits both to APS and its customers. APS is piloting and deploying a variety of technologies that are intended to allow customers to better monitor their energy use and needs, minimize system outage durations and the number of customers that experience outages, and facilitate cost savings to APS through improved reliability and the automation of certain distribution functions, including remote meter reading and remote connects and disconnects. 49 Table of Contents Renewable Energy. The ACC approved the RES in 2006, recognizing the importance of renewable energy to our state. The renewable energy requirement is 3% of retail electric sales in 2011 and increases annually until it reaches 15% in 2025. In the 2009 retail rate case settlement agreement, APS agreed to exceed the RES standards, committing to 1,700 GWh of new renewable resources to be in service by year end 2015 in addition to its 2008 renewable resource commitments. Taken together, APSs commitment is estimated to be 3,400 GWh or approximately 10% of APSs retail energy sales by year end 2015, which is double the existing RES target of 5% for that year. See Note 3. A component of the RES is focused on stimulating development of distributed energy systems (generally speaking, small scale renewable technologies that are located on customers properties). APS has a diverse portfolio of existing and planned renewable resources totaling 875 MW, including solar, wind, geothermal, biomass and biogas. Of this portfolio, 288 MW are currently in operation and 587 MW are under contract for development or are under construction. Renewable resources in operation include 5 MW of utility scale facilities owned by APS, 223 MW of long term purchased power agreements, and an estimated 60 MW of customer sited, third party owned distributed energy resources. To achieve our RES requirements, as mentioned above, to date APS has entered into contracts for 587 MW of renewable resources that are planned, in development or under construction. APSs strategy to procure these resources includes new facilities to be owned by APS, purchased power contracts for new facilities and ongoing development of distributed energy resources. Through the AZ Sun Program, approved by the ACC on March 3, 2010, APS plans to own 100 MW of solar photovoltaic power plants across Arizona by investing up to $500 million through 2014. Under this program, APS has executed contracts for the development of 83 MW of new solar generation, representing an investment commitment of approximately $377 million. See Note 3 for additional details of the AZ Sun Program, including the related cost recovery. APS has also entered into long term purchased power agreements for 382 MW from solar, wind and biogas facilities currently planned, in development or under construction, and 122 MW from distributed energy resources. Agreements for the development and completion of future resources are subject to various conditions, including successful siting, permitting and interconnection of the project to the electric grid. APS continues to actively consider opportunities to enhance its renewable energy portfolio, both to ensure its compliance with the Renewable Energy Standard and to meet the needs of its customer base. Demand Side Management. Arizona regulators are placing an increased focus on energy efficiency and other demand side management programs to encourage customers to conserve energy, while incentivizing utilities to aid in these efforts that ultimately reduce the demand for energy. In December 2009, the ACC initiated Energy Efficiency rulemaking, with a proposed Energy Efficiency Standard of 22% cumulative annual energy savings by 2020. The 22% figure represents the cumulative reduction in future energy usage through 2020 attributable to energy efficiency initiatives. On July 27, 2010, the proposed Energy Efficiency Standard was adopted by the ACC, approved by the Arizona Attorney General and became effective on January 1, 2011. This ambitious standard will likely impact Arizonas future energy resource needs. 50 Table of Contents Rate Matters. APS needs timely recovery through rates of its capital and operating expenditures to maintain adequate financial health. APSs retail rates are regulated by the ACC and its wholesale electric rates (primarily for transmission) are regulated by the FERC. At the end of 2009, the ACC approved a settlement agreement entered into by APS and twenty one of the twenty three other parties to APSs general retail rate case, with modifications that did not materially affect the overall economic terms of the agreement. The rate case settlement authorizes and requires equity infusions into APS of at least $700 million prior to the end of 2014. The settlement demonstrated cooperation among APS, the ACC staff, the Residential Utility Consumer Office (RUCO) and other intervenors to the rate case, and establishes a future rate case filing plan that allows APS the opportunity to help shape Arizonas energy future outside of continual rate cases. See Note 3 for a detailed discussion of the settlement agreement terms and information on APSs FERC rates. APS has several recovery mechanisms in place that provide more timely recovery to APS of its fuel and transmission costs, and costs associated with the promotion and implementation of its demand side management and renewable energy efforts and customer programs. These mechanisms are described more fully in Note 3. On October 18, 2010, the Chairman of the ACC issued a draft decoupling policy statement for consideration by the commission. On December 15, 2010 the ACC unanimously approved a slightly modified decoupling policy statement supportive of using a revenue per customer methodology, which is the mechanism APS and a number of other parties support. Decoupling refers to a ratemaking design which reduces or removes the linkage between sales and utility revenues and or profits, reducing utility disincentives to the adoption of programs that benefit customers by saving energy. Mechanically, decoupling compares actual versus authorized revenues or revenue per customer over a period and either credits or collects any differences from customers in a subsequent period. The policy permits regulated utilities to file a decoupling proposal in their next general rate case. APS intends to include a decoupling model consistent with the policy statement for consideration in its upcoming general rate case, currently expected to be filed in June 2011. Financial Strength and Flexibility. Pinnacle West and APS currently have ample borrowing capacity under their respective credit facilities and have been able to access these facilities, ensuring adequate liquidity for each company. In early February 2010, APS entered into a $500 million revolving credit facility, replacing its $377 million revolving credit facility that would have otherwise terminated in December 2010. At that same time, Pinnacle West entered into a $200 million revolving credit facility that replaced its $283 million facility that also would have otherwise terminated in December 2010. Since March 2010, Pinnacle West and APS have accessed the commercial paper market, which neither company had utilized since the third quarter of 2008 due to negative market conditions. In April 2010, Pinnacle West issued 6,900,000 shares of common stock at an offering price of $38.00 per share, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $253 million. Pinnacle West contributed all of the net proceeds from this offering into APS in the form of equity infusions. APS has used these capital contributions to repay short term indebtedness, to finance capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes. In early February 2011, APS entered into a $500 million revolving credit facility, replacing its $489 million revolving credit facility that would have otherwise terminated in September 2011. SunCor Real Estate Operations. As a result of the continuing distressed conditions in the real estate markets, during 2009 SunCor undertook a program to dispose of its homebuilding operations, master planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order to reduce its outstanding debt. At December 31, 2010, SunCor had total remaining assets of about $16 million, which includes approximately $3 million of assets held for sale. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Other Subsidiaries SunCor below for information regarding 2010 asset sales and liquidity matters. 51 Table of Contents District Cooling Business Sale. On June 22, 2010, APSES sold its district cooling business consisting of operations in downtown Phoenix, Tucson, and on certain Arizona State University campuses. The sale resulted in an after tax gain of approximately $25 million. APSES is now focused on its core business of energy conservation and renewable energy contracting services. Subsidiaries. The operations of APSES and our other first tier subsidiary, El Dorado, are not expected to have any material impact on our financial results, or to require any material amounts of capital, over the next three years. Key Financial Drivers In addition to the continuing impact of the matters described above, many factors influence our financial results and our future financial outlook, including those listed below. We closely monitor these factors to plan for the Companys current needs, and to adjust our expectations, financial budgets and forecasts appropriately. Electric Operating Revenues. For the years 2008 through 2010, retail electric revenues comprised approximately 93% of our total electric operating revenues. Our electric operating revenues are affected by customer growth or decline, variations in weather from period to period, customer mix, average usage per customer and the impacts of energy efficiency programs, electricity rates and tariffs, the recovery of PSA deferrals and the operation of other recovery mechanisms. Off system sales of excess generation output, purchased power and natural gas are included in regulated electricity segment revenues and related fuel and purchased power because they are credited to APSs retail customers through the PSA. These revenue transactions are affected by the availability of excess generation or other energy resources and wholesale market conditions, including competition, demand and prices. Customer and Sales Growth. Customer growth in APSs service territory for the year ended December 31, 2010 was 0.6% compared with the prior year. For the three years 2008 through 2010, APSs customer growth averaged 0.9% per year. We currently expect customer growth to average about 1.7% per year for 2011 through 2013 due to anticipated improving economic conditions both nationally and in Arizona. Retail sales in kilowatt hours, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations, for 2010 declined 1.0% compared to the prior year, reflecting the poor economic conditions in 2010 and the effects of our energy efficiency programs. For the three years 2008 through 2010, APSs actual retail electricity sales in kilowatt hours, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations, declined at an average annual rate of 0.9%. We currently estimate that total retail electricity sales in kilowatt hours will remain flat on average per year during 2011 through 2013, including the effects of APSs energy efficiency programs, but excluding the effects of weather variations. A continuation of the economic downturn, or the failure of the Arizona economy to rebound in the near future, could further impact these estimates. The customer and sales growth referred to in this paragraph apply to Native Load customers. Actual sales growth, excluding weather related variations, may differ from our projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth, usage patterns, impacts of energy efficiency programs and responses to retail price changes. Our experience indicates that a reasonable range of variation in our kilowatt hour sales projection attributable to such economic factors under normal business conditions can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of up to $10 million. Weather. In forecasting the retail sales growth numbers provided above, we assume normal weather patterns based on historical data. Historical extreme weather variations have resulted in annual variations in net income in excess of $20 million. However, our experience indicates that the more typical variations from normal weather can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of up to $10 million. 52 Table of Contents Fuel and Purchased Power Costs. Fuel and purchased power costs included on our Consolidated Statements of Income are impacted by our electricity sales volumes, existing contracts for purchased power and generation fuel, our power plant performance, transmission availability or constraints, prevailing market prices, new generating plants being placed in service in our market areas, our hedging program for managing such costs and PSA deferrals and the related amortization. Operations and Maintenance Expenses. Operations and maintenance expenses are impacted by growth, power plant operations, maintenance of utility plant (including generation, transmission, and distribution facilities), inflation, outages, higher trending pension and other postretirement benefit costs, renewable energy and demand side management related expenses (which are offset by the same amount of regulated electricity segment operating revenues) and other factors. In its 2009 retail rate case settlement, APS committed to operational expense reductions from 2010 through 2014 and received approval to defer certain pension and other postretirement benefit cost increases to be incurred in 2011 and 2012. Depreciation and Amortization Expenses. Depreciation and amortization expenses are impacted by net additions to utility plant and other property (such as new generation, transmission, and distribution facilities), and changes in depreciation and amortization rates. See Capital Expenditures below for information regarding the planned additions to our facilities. We have also applied to the NRC for renewed operating licenses for each of the Palo Verde units. If the NRC grants the extension, we estimate that our annual pretax depreciation expense will decrease by approximately $34 million at the later of the license extension date or January 1, 2012. Property Taxes. Taxes other than income taxes consist primarily of property taxes, which are affected by the value of property in service and under construction, assessment ratios, and tax rates. The average property tax rate for APS, which currently owns the majority of our property, was 8.0% of the assessed value in 2010, 7.5% of the assessed value in 2009 and 7.8% of the assessed value in 2008. We expect property taxes to increase as we add new utility plants (including new generation, transmission and distribution facilities described below under Capital Additions) and as we improve our existing facilities. Income Taxes. Income taxes are affected by the amount of pre tax book income, income tax rates, and certain non taxable items, such as the AFUDC. In addition, income taxes may also be affected by the settlement of issues with taxing authorities. Interest Expense. Interest expense is affected by the amount of debt outstanding and the interest rates on that debt (see Note 6.) The primary factors affecting borrowing levels are expected to be our capital expenditures, long term debt maturities, equity issuances and internally generated cash flow. An allowance for borrowed funds offsets a portion of interest expense while capital projects are under construction. We stop accruing AFUDC on a project when it is placed in commercial operation. 53 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Pinnacle Wests reportable business segment is our regulated electricity segment, which consists of traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electricity service to Native Load customers) and related activities and includes electricity generation, transmission and distribution. Our reportable business segments reflect a change from previously reported information. As of December 31, 2010, our real estate activities are no longer considered a segment requiring separate reporting or disclosure. In 2009 our real estate subsidiary, SunCor, began disposing of its homebuilding operations, master planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order to reduce its outstanding debt (see Note 23). At December 31, 2010, SunCor had total remaining assets of about $16 million, which includes approximately $3 million of assets held for sale. Additionally, all of SunCors operations are reflected in discontinued operations. Operating Results 2010 compared with 2009 Our consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders for 2010 was $350 million, compared with $68 million for the comparable prior year period. The improved results were primarily due to lower real estate impairment charges recorded in 2010 compared with the prior year period by SunCor. 54 Table of Contents In addition, regulated electricity segment net income increased approximately $82 million from the prior year period due to increased revenues related to APSs retail rate increases and other factors. Our consolidated results for 2010 also include a gain of $25 million after income taxes related to the sale of APSES district cooling business. The following table presents net income (loss) attributable to common shareholders by business segment compared with the prior year period: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Net Change (dollars in millions) Regulated Electricity Segment: Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses $ 2,134 $ 1,970 $ 164 Operations and maintenance (870 ) (822 ) (48 ) Depreciation and amortization (415 ) (407 ) (8 ) Taxes other than income taxes (135 ) (123 ) (12 ) Other income (expenses), net (4 ) (2 ) (2 ) Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction (204 ) (212 ) 8 Income taxes (161 ) (142 ) (19 ) Noncontrolling interests (Note 20) (20 ) (19 ) (1 ) Regulated electricity segment net income 325 243 82 All other (a) 5 (10 ) 15 Income from Continuing Operations Attributable to Common Shareholders 330 233 97 Discontinued real estate activities, primarily impairment charges at SunCor (Note 23) (6 ) (167 ) 161 All other discontinued operations (b) 26 2 24 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations Attributable to Common Shareholders 20 (165 ) 185 Net Income Attributable to Common Shareholders $ 350 $ 68 $ 282 (a) Includes activities related to APSES and El Dorado. None of the activities of either of these companies constitutes a reportable segment. (b) Income from discontinued operations for 2010 includes a gain of $25 million after income taxes related to the sale of APSES district cooling business. 55 Table of Contents Regulated electricity segment This section includes a discussion of major variances in income and expense amounts for the regulated electricity segment. Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses Regulated electricity segment operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses were $164 million higher for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year. The following table describes the major components of this change: Increase (Decrease) Fuel and purchased Operating power revenues expenses Net change (dollars in millions) Retail regulatory settlement effective January 1, 2010: Retail base rate increases, net of deferrals $ 269 $ 128 $ 141 Line extension revenues (Note 3) 19 19 Transmission rate increases 6 6 Higher demand side management and renewable energy surcharges (substantially offset in operations and maintenance expense) 33 2 31 Higher fuel and purchased power costs offset by the effects of higher off system sales, net of related PSA deferrals 28 26 2 Lower retail revenues related to recovery of PSA deferrals, substantially offset by lower amortization of fuel and purchased power expense (270 ) (276 ) 6 Lower retail sales primarily due to lower usage per customer, including the effects of the Companys energy efficiency programs, but excluding the effects of weather (28 ) (9 ) (19 ) Effects of weather on retail sales, primarily due to milder weather in the second quarter 2010 (20 ) (6 ) (14 ) Miscellaneous items, net (5 ) 3 (8 ) Total $ 32 $ (132 ) $ 164 Operations and maintenance Operations and maintenance expenses increased $48 million for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year primarily because of: An increase of $25 million related to demand side management and renewable energy programs, which are primarily offset in operating revenues; An increase of $18 million related to employee benefits costs; and An increase of $5 million related to other miscellaneous factors. 56 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses were $8 million higher for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year primarily because of increased plant in service partially offset by lower depreciation rates. Taxes other than income taxes Taxes other than income taxes increased $12 million for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher property tax rates in the current year. Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction, decreased $8 million for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher rates in the current year for the allowance for equity and borrowed funds used during construction, partially offset by higher interest charges due to higher debt balances. Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction are comprised of the regulated electricity segment portions of the line items interest expense and allowance for equity and borrowed funds used during construction from the Consolidated Statements of Income. Income taxes Income taxes were $19 million higher for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher pretax income in the current year period, partially offset by $17 million of income tax benefits related to prior years that were resolved in the current year. See Note 4. All other All other revenues increased $56 million partially offset by increased other expenses of $41 million resulting primarily from improved margins from APSES products and services business. In addition, other income was higher due to investment losses at El Dorado in 2009. Discontinued Operations Real estate activities During the first quarter of 2009, SunCors Board of Directors authorized a series of strategic transactions to dispose of SunCors assets. This decision resulted in impairment charges of approximately $161 million after income taxes in 2009. As of December 31, 2010, all of SunCors operations have been reclassified to discontinued operations (see Note 22). The after tax impacts of the $6 million loss from real estate activities for the year ended 2010 includes real estate impairment charges of approximately $10 million (see Note 23) and other costs of $6 million, partially offset by a gain from debt restructuring of approximately $10 million (see Note 6). All other All other earnings from discontinued operations were $24 million higher for the year ended 2010 compared to the prior year period primarily because of a gain of $25 million after income taxes related to the sale of APSES district cooling business in 2010. Operating Results 2009 Compared with 2008 Our consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders for 2009 was $68 million, compared with $242 million for the prior year period. The decrease in net income was primarily due to 2009 real estate impairment charges recorded by SunCor, the Companys real estate subsidiary. 57 Table of Contents In addition, regulated electricity segment net income decreased approximately $13 million from the prior year primarily due to lower retail sales resulting from lower usage per customer; higher interest charges, net of capitalized financing costs; higher depreciation and amortization expenses; and the absence of income tax benefits related to prior years recorded in 2008. These negative factors were partially offset by increased revenues due to an interim rate increase effective January 1, 2009 and transmission rate increases. The following table presents net income attributable to common shareholders by business segment compared with the prior year: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Net Change (dollars in millions) Regulated Electricity Segment: Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses $ 1,970 $ 1,843 $ 127 Operations and maintenance (822 ) (756 ) (66 ) Depreciation and amortization (407 ) (391 ) (16 ) Taxes other than income taxes (123 ) (125 ) 2 Other income (expenses), net (2 ) (21 ) 19 Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction (212 ) (185 ) (27 ) Income taxes (142 ) (92 ) (50 ) Noncontrolling interests (Note 20) (19 ) (17 ) (2 ) Regulated electricity segment net income 243 256 (13 ) All other (a) (10 ) 5 (15 ) Income from Continuing Operations Attributable to Common Shareholders 233 261 (28 ) Discontinued real estate activities, primarily impairment charges at SunCor (Note 23) (167 ) (26 ) (141 ) All other discontinued operations (a) 2 7 (5 ) Loss from Discontinued Operations Attributable to Common Shareholders (165 ) (19 ) (146 ) Net Income Attributable to Common Shareholders $ 68 $ 242 $ (174 ) (a) Includes activities related to marketing and trading, APSES and El Dorado. Income for 2008 includes income from discontinued operations of $8 million related to the resolution of certain tax issues associated with the sale of Silverhawk Power Station (Silverhawk) in 2005. None of these segments is a reportable segment. Regulated electricity segment This section includes a discussion of major variances in income and expense amounts for the regulated electricity segment. 58 Table of Contents Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses Regulated electricity segment operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses were $127 million higher for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year. The following table describes the major components of this change: Increase (Decrease) Fuel and purchased Operating power revenues expenses Net change (dollars in millions) Higher renewable energy and demand side management surcharges (substantially offset in operations and maintenance expense) $ 63 $ $ 63 Interim retail rate increases effective January 1, 2009 61 61 Transmission rate increases 21 21 Increased mark to market valuations of fuel and purchased power contracts related to favorable changes in market prices, net of related PSA deferrals (18 ) 18 Effects of weather on retail sales, primarily due to hotter weather in the third quarter of 2009 12 3 9 Lower retail sales primarily due to lower usage per customer, including the effects of the Companys energy efficiency programs, but excluding the effects of weather (58 ) (26 ) (32 ) Higher fuel and purchased power costs including the effects of lower off system sales, net of related PSA deferrals (30 ) (19 ) (11 ) Lower retail revenues related to recovery of PSA deferrals, offset by lower amortization of the same amount recorded as fuel and purchased power expense (see Note 3) (36 ) (36 ) Miscellaneous items, net (11 ) (9 ) (2 ) Total $ 22 $ (105 ) $ 127 Operations and maintenance Operations and maintenance expenses increased $66 million for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of: An increase of $62 million related to renewable energy and demand side management programs, which are offset in operating revenues; An increase of $29 million in generation costs, including more planned maintenance, partially offset by lower costs at Palo Verde due to cost efficiency measures; and A decrease of $25 million associated with cost saving measures and other factors, including the absence of employee severance costs in 2009. 59 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $16 million for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of increases in utility plant in service. The increases in utility plant in service are the result of various improvements to APSs existing fossil and nuclear generating plants and distribution and transmission infrastructure additions and upgrades. Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction increased $27 million for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher debt balances, partially offset by the effects of lower interest rates (see discussion related to APSs debt issuances in Pinnacle West Consolidated Liquidity and Capital Resources below). Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction are comprised of the regulated electricity segment portions of the line items interest expense and allowance for equity and borrowed funds used during construction from the Consolidated Statements of Income. Other income (expenses), net Other income (expenses), net improved $19 million for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of improved investment gains. Other income (expenses), net is comprised of the regulated electricity segment portions of the line items other income and other expense from the Consolidated Statements of Income. Income taxes Income taxes were $50 million higher for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of $30 million of income tax benefits related to prior years recorded in 2008 and higher pretax income. See Note 4. All other All other earnings from continuing operations were $15 million lower for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of planned reductions of marketing and trading activities. Discontinued operations Real estate activities During the first quarter of 2009, we decided to sell substantially all of SunCors assets to reduce its outstanding debt. The loss from real estate activities attributable to common shareholders was $141 million higher for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of an increase in real estate impairment charges of $213 million before income taxes (see Note 23 for details of the impairment charges). All other All other earnings from discontinued operations were $5 million lower for the year ended 2009 compared with the prior year primarily because of the absence of the 2008 resolution of certain tax issues associated with the sale of Silverhawk in 2005. 60 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows Pinnacle West Consolidated The following table presents net cash provided by (used for) operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in millions): 2010 2009 2008 Net cash flow provided by operating activities $ 750 $ 1,067 $ 848 Net cash flow used for investing activities (576 ) (705 ) (815 ) Net cash flow provided by (used for) financing activities (209 ) (322 ) 16 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (35 ) $ 40 $ 49 2010 Compared with 2009 The decrease of approximately $317 million in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to voluntary pension contributions in 2010 of approximately $200 million, changes in collateral and margin cash provided as a result of changes in commodity prices and other changes in working capital. The decrease of approximately $129 million in net cash used for investing activities is primarily due to approximately $100 million of proceeds from the sale of the district cooling business in June 2010 and the increase in proceeds from the sale of commercial real estate investments of approximately $29 million. The decrease of approximately $113 million in net cash used for financing activities is primarily due to lower repayments of short term borrowings in 2010 due to lower short term debt balances partially offset by lower net sources of equity and long term debt financing, including the proceeds of approximately $253 million from the issuance of equity in April 2010 and APSs issuance of $500 million of unsecured senior notes in 2009. 2009 Compared with 2008 The increase of approximately $219 million in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to a reduction of collateral and margin cash required as a result of changes in commodity prices and a 2009 income tax refund (see Note 4). The decrease of approximately $110 million in net cash used for investing activities is primarily due to lower levels of capital expenditures net of contributions (see table and discussion below), partially offset by lower real estate sales primarily due to a commercial property sale in 2008. The increase of approximately $338 million in net cash used for financing activities is primarily due to repayments of short term borrowings, partially offset by APSs issuance of $500 million of unsecured senior notes. 61 Table of Contents Cash Flows Arizona Public Service Company The following table presents APSs net cash provided by (used for) operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in millions): 2010 2009 2008 Net cash flow provided by operating activities $ 695 $ 995 $ 820 Net cash flow used for investing activities (747 ) (738 ) (879 ) Net cash flow provided by (used for) financing activities 31 (208 ) 79 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (21 ) $ 49 $ 20 2010 Compared with 2009 The decrease of approximately $300 million in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to voluntary pension contributions in 2010 of approximately $200 million, increased collateral and margin cash provided as a result of changes in commodity prices, and the payment of income taxes in 2010. These were partially offset by other changes in working capital. The increase of approximately $9 million in net cash used for investing activities is primarily due to lower contributions in aid of construction and other cash flows. The decrease of approximately $239 million in net cash used for financing activities is primarily due to the repayment of short term borrowings in 2009, partially offset by lower net sources of equity and long term debt financing including the proceeds of approximately $253 million from the infusion of equity from Pinnacle West in 2010 and by APSs issuance of $500 million of unsecured senior notes in 2009. 2009 Compared with 2008 The increase of approximately $175 million in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to a reduction of collateral and margin cash required as a result of changes in commodity prices. The decrease of approximately $141 million in net cash used for investing activities is primarily due to lower levels of capital expenditures net of contributions. The increase of approximately $287 million in net cash used for financing activities is primarily due to repayments of short term borrowings, partially offset by APSs issuance of $500 million of unsecured senior notes (see Note 6). 62 Table of Contents Liquidity Capital Expenditure Requirements The following table summarizes the actual capital expenditures for 2008, 2009 and 2010 and estimated capital expenditures for the next three years: CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (dollars in millions) Actual Estimated 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 APS Generation: Nuclear Fuel $ 47 $ 64 $ 63 $ 65 $ 68 $ 69 Renewables 6 236 179 90 Environmental 96 33 11 11 22 122 Four Corners Units 4 and 5 294 Other Generation 167 144 172 144 152 107 Distribution 340 246 232 284 350 285 Transmission 163 193 120 143 220 248 Other (a) 43 52 62 78 49 41 Total APS 856 732 666 961 1,334 962 Other 48 13 4 Total $ 904 $ 745 $ 670 $ 961 $ 1,334 $ 962 (a) Primarily information systems and facilities projects. Generation capital expenditures are comprised of various improvements to APSs existing fossil and nuclear plants. Examples of the types of projects included in this category are additions, upgrades and capital replacements of various power plant equipment, such as turbines, boilers and environmental equipment. Included under Renewables is the AZ Sun Program, which is a significant component of the increase in capital expenditures from 2010 to 2011. For purposes of this table, we have assumed the consummation of APSs purchase of SCEs interest in Four Corners Units 4 and 5 and the subsequent shut down of Units 1 3, as discussed in the Overview section above. As a result, we included the $294 million purchase price under Generation and have not included environmental expenditures for Units 1 3. We are also monitoring the status of certain environmental matters, which, depending on their final outcome, could require modification to our environmental expenditures. (See Business of Arizona Public Service Company Environmental Matters EPA Environmental Regulation Regional Haze Rules, Mercury and Other Hazardous Air Pollutants and Coal Combustion Waste in Item 1.) Distribution and transmission capital expenditures are comprised of infrastructure additions and upgrades, capital replacements, new customer construction, related information systems and facility costs. Examples of the types of projects included in the forecast include power lines, substations, line extensions to new residential and commercial developments and upgrades to customer information systems. Capital expenditures will be funded with internally generated cash and external financings, which may include issuances of long term debt and Pinnacle West common stock. 63 Table of Contents Pinnacle West (Parent Company) Our primary cash needs are for dividends to our shareholders and principal and interest payments on our short term and long term debt. The level of our common stock dividends and future dividend growth will be dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, payout ratio trends, free cash flow and financial market conditions. On January 19, 2011, the Pinnacle West Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share of common stock, payable on March 1, 2011, to shareholders of record on February 1, 2011. Our primary sources of cash are dividends from APS, external debt and equity financings. For the years 2008 through 2010, total distributions from APS were $522 million and there were no distributions from SunCor. For 2010, cash distributions from APS were $182 million. An existing ACC order requires APS to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40%. As defined in the ACC order, the common equity ratio is total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long term debt, including current maturities of long term debt. At December 31, 2010, APSs common equity ratio, as defined, was 53%. Its total shareholder equity was approximately $3.8 billion, and total capitalization was approximately $7.2 billion. APS would be prohibited from paying dividends if the payment would reduce its total shareholder equity below approximately $2.9 billion, assuming APSs total capitalization remains the same. Based on the discussion above, this restriction does not materially affect Pinnacle Wests ability to meet its ongoing capital requirements. Pinnacle West and APS maintain committed revolving credit facilities in order to enhance liquidity and provide credit support for the commercial paper programs. During the first quarter of 2010, Pinnacle West and APS refinanced existing credit facilities that would have otherwise matured in December 2010. On February 12, 2010, Pinnacle West refinanced its $283 million revolving credit facility that would have matured in December 2010, and decreased the size of the facility to $200 million. The new facility matures in February 2013. Pinnacle West has the option to increase the amount of the facility up to a maximum of $300 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders. Pinnacle West will use the facility for general corporate purposes, commercial paper program support and for the issuance of letters of credit. Interest rates are based on Pinnacle Wests senior unsecured debt credit ratings. As a result of the downsized credit facility, the Company also reduced the size of its commercial paper program to $200 million from $250 million. At December 31, 2010, the $200 million credit facility was available to support the issuance of up to $183 million in commercial paper or for bank borrowings, including issuances of letters of credit up to $183 million. At December 31, 2010, Pinnacle West had no outstanding borrowings under this credit facility, $17 million of commercial paper borrowings and no outstanding letters of credit. 64 Table of Contents In April 2010, Pinnacle West issued 6,900,000 shares of common stock at an offering price of $38.00 per share, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $253 million. Pinnacle West contributed all of the net proceeds from this offering into APS in the form of equity infusions. APS has used these contributions to repay short term indebtedness, to finance capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes. Pinnacle West intends to issue equity to provide most of the funds for the equity infusions into APS required by the retail rate case settlement. Such equity issuances may occur at any time in the period through 2014, at Pinnacle Wests discretion. See Note 3. In June 2010, Pinnacle West received approximately $100 million related to the sale of APSES district cooling business. The net proceeds were used to repay short term indebtedness. Pinnacle West expects to receive approximately $132 million of cash tax benefits related to SunCors strategic asset sales (see Note 23), a majority of which have been realized as of December 31, 2010. Approximately $7 million of these benefits were recorded in 2010 as reductions to income tax expense related to the current impairment charges. The additional $125 million of tax benefits were recorded as reductions to income tax expense related to SunCor impairment charges recorded on or before December 31, 2009. The $68 million income tax receivables on the Consolidated Balance Sheets represent the anticipated refunds related to an APS tax accounting method change approved by the IRS in the third quarter of 2009 and the current year tax benefits related to the SunCor strategic asset sales that closed in 2010. The Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010 includes provisions making qualified property placed into service after September 8, 2010 and before January 1, 2012 eligible for 100% bonus depreciation for federal income tax purposes. In addition, qualified property placed into service in 2012 is eligible for 50% bonus depreciation for federal income tax purposes. These provisions of the recent tax legislation are expected to generate approximately $450 500 million of cash tax benefits for APS through accelerated depreciation. It is anticipated that these cash benefits will be fully realized by APS by the end of 2013, with a majority of the benefit realized in 2012 and 2013. The cash generated is an acceleration of tax benefits that APS would have otherwise received over 20 years. Pinnacle West sponsors a qualified defined benefit and account balance pension plan and a non qualified supplemental excess benefit retirement plan for the employees of Pinnacle West and our subsidiaries. IRS regulations require us to contribute a minimum amount to the qualified plan. We contribute at least the minimum amount required under IRS regulations, but no more than the maximum tax deductible amount. The minimum required funding takes into consideration the value of plan assets and our pension obligation. The assets in the plan are comprised of fixed income, equity, real estate, and short term investments. Future year contribution amounts are dependent on plan asset performance and plan actuarial assumptions. During 2010, we made voluntary contributions of $200 million to our pension plan. The required minimum contribution to our pension plan is zero in 2011 and approximately $85 million in 2012. The contribution to our other postretirement benefit plans in 2010 was approximately $17 million. The contributions to our other postretirement benefit plans for 2011 and 2012 are expected to be approximately $20 million each year. APS and other subsidiaries fund their share of the contributions. APSs share is approximately 98% of both plans. 65 Table of Contents APS APSs capital requirements consist primarily of capital expenditures and maturities of long term debt. APS funds its capital requirements with cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, external debt financing and equity infusions from Pinnacle West. See Pinnacle West (Parent Company) above for a discussion of the common equity ratio that APS must maintain in order to pay dividends to Pinnacle West. On February 12, 2010, APS refinanced its $377 million credit facility that would have matured in December 2010, and increased the size of the facility to $500 million. The new credit facility terminates in February 2013. APS may increase the amount of the facility up to a maximum of $700 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders. APS will use the facility for general corporate purposes, commercial paper program support and for the issuance of letters of credit. Interest rates are based on APSs senior unsecured debt credit ratings. On February 14, 2011, APS refinanced its $489 million credit facility that would have matured in September 2011, and increased the size of the facility to $500 million. The new credit facility terminates in February 2015. APS may increase the amount of the facility up to a maximum of $700 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders. APS will use the facility for general corporate purposes, commercial paper program support and for the issuance of letters of credit. Interest rates are based on APSs senior unsecured debt credit ratings. At December 31, 2010, APS had two credit facilities totaling $989 million, consisting of the $500 million and $489 million credit facilities described above. These facilities were available either to support the issuance of up to $250 million in commercial paper, or for bank borrowings, including issuances of letters of credit up to $989 million. At December 31, 2010, APS had no borrowings outstanding under any of its credit facilities and no outstanding commercial paper. A $20 million letter of credit was issued under APSs $489 million credit facility in the second quarter of 2010. On July 13, 2010, APS changed the interest rate mode for the approximately $33 million of Coconino County, Arizona Pollution Control Corporation Pollution Control Revenue Bonds (Arizona Public Service Company Navajo Project) 1994 Series A, due 2029. The rate period for the bonds changed from a daily rate mode, supported by a letter of credit, to a three year term rate mode that will bear interest at a rate of 3.625% per annum for three years. The letter of credit was terminated in connection with this change, and there is no bank or other third party credit support for the bonds in the term rate mode. On August 10, 2010, APS changed the letter of credit supporting the approximately $17 million of Coconino County, Arizona Pollution Control Corporation Pollution Control Revenue Bonds (Arizona Public Service Company Project) Series 1998, due 2033. The bonds were in a daily rate mode supported by a prior letter of credit and remain in a daily rate mode, supported by a new three year letter of credit expiring in August 2013. 66 Table of Contents On October 12, 2010, APS changed the interest rate mode for the approximately $147 million of City of Farmington, New Mexico Pollution Control Revenue Refunding Bonds (Arizona Public Service Company Four Corners Project) 1994 Series A and 1994 Series B, due 2024 and City of Farmington, New Mexico Pollution Control Revenue Bonds (Arizona Public Service Company Four Corners Project) 1994 Series C, due 2024. The rate period for the 1994 Series A bonds and the 1994 Series B bonds changed from a daily rate mode, supported by letters of credit, to a term rate mode to maturity, subject to optional redemption after year ten, that will bear interest at a rate of 4.70% per annum until maturity in 2024 unless the optional redemption is exercised by APS. The rate period for the 1994 Series C bonds changed from a daily rate mode, supported by a letter of credit, to a three year term rate mode that will bear interest at a rate of 2.875% per annum until October 2013. The letters of credit supporting each of these three series of bonds were terminated in connection with these changes, and there is no bank or other third party credit support for any of these bonds. On January 1, 2010, due to the adoption of amended accounting guidance relating to VIEs, APS began consolidating the Palo Verde Lessor Trusts (see Note 20) and, as a result of consolidation of these VIEs, APS has reported the Lessor Trusts long term debt on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. Interest rates on these debt instruments are 8% and are fixed for the remaining life of the debt. As of December 31, 2010 approximately $29 million was classified as current maturities of long term debt and $97 million was classified as long term debt relating to these VIEs. These debt instruments mature on December 30, 2015 and have sinking fund features that are serviced by the lease payments. See Note 20 for additional discussion of the VIEs. Other Financing Matters See Note 3 for information regarding the PSA approved by the ACC. Although APS defers actual retail fuel and purchased power costs on a current basis, APSs recovery of the deferrals from its ratepayers is subject to annual and, if necessary, periodic PSA adjustments. See Note 3 for information regarding the retail rate case settlement, which includes ACC authorization and requirements of equity infusions into APS of at least $700 million by December 31, 2014. See Note 18 for information related to the change in our margin accounts. Other Subsidiaries SunCor In 2010, SunCor sold land parcels, commercial assets and master planned home building communities for approximately $72 million, which approximated the carrying value of these assets, resulting in a net gain of zero. In connection with these sales, SunCor negotiated a restructuring of certain of its credit facilities. The debt restructuring resulted in an after tax gain of approximately $10 million. At December 31, 2010, SunCor had total remaining assets of about $16 million, which includes approximately $3 million of assets held for sale. At December 31, 2010, SunCor had no debt outstanding. El Dorado El Dorado expects minimal capital requirements over the next three years and intends to focus on prudently realizing the value of its existing investments. APSES APSES expects minimal capital expenditures over the next three years. Debt Provisions Pinnacle Wests and APSs debt covenants related to their respective bank financing arrangements include maximum debt to capitalization ratios. Pinnacle West and APS comply with this covenant and each anticipates it will continue to meet this and other significant covenant requirements. For both Pinnacle West and APS, this covenant requires that the ratio of consolidated debt to total consolidated capitalization not exceed 65%. At December 31, 2010, the ratio was approximately 49% for Pinnacle West and 46% for APS. Failure to comply with such covenant levels would result in an event of default which, generally speaking, would require the immediate repayment of the debt subject to the covenants and could cross default other debt. See further discussion of cross default provisions below. 67 Table of Contents Neither Pinnacle Wests nor APSs financing agreements contain rating triggers that would result in an acceleration of the required interest and principal payments in the event of a rating downgrade. However, our bank credit agreements contain a pricing grid in which the interest rates we pay for borrowings thereunder are determined by our current credit ratings. All of Pinnacle Wests loan agreements contain cross default provisions that would result in defaults and the potential acceleration of payment under these loan agreements if Pinnacle West or APS were to default under certain other material agreements. All of APSs bank agreements contain cross default provisions that would result in defaults and the potential acceleration of payment under these bank agreements if APS were to default under certain other material agreements. Pinnacle West and APS do not have a material adverse change restriction for credit facilities borrowings. See Notes 5 and 6 for further discussions of liquidity matters. Credit Ratings The ratings of securities of Pinnacle West and APS as of February 17, 2011 are shown below. The ratings reflect the respective views of the rating agencies, from which an explanation of the significance of their ratings may be obtained. There is no assurance that these ratings will continue for any given period of time. The ratings may be revised or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies if, in their respective judgments, circumstances so warrant. Any downward revision or withdrawal may adversely affect the market price of Pinnacle Wests or APSs securities and or result in an increase in the cost of, or limit access to, capital. Such revisions may also result in substantial additional cash or other collateral requirements related to certain derivative instruments, insurance policies, natural gas transportation, fuel supply, and other energy related contracts. At this time, we believe we have sufficient liquidity to cover a downward revision to our credit ratings. Moodys Standard Poors Fitch Pinnacle West Senior unsecured (a) Baa3 (P) BB (prelim) N/A Commercial paper P 3 A 3 F3 Outlook Stable Positive Stable APS Senior unsecured Baa2 BBB BBB Secured lease obligation bonds Baa2 BBB BBB Commercial paper P 2 A 3 F3 Outlook Stable Positive Stable (a) Pinnacle West has a shelf registration under SEC Rule 415. Pinnacle West currently has no outstanding, rated senior unsecured securities. However, Moodys assigned a provisional (P) rating and Standard Poors assigned a preliminary (prelim) rating to the senior unsecured securities that can be issued under such shelf registration. 68 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On January 1, 2010 we adopted amended accounting guidance relating to VIEs and, as a result, we have consolidated certain entities which were previously not consolidated. The consolidation of these entities has impacted our consolidated financial statements. See Notes 1, 2 and 20 for a discussion of these impacts. Guarantees and Surety Bonds We have issued parental guarantees and obtained surety bonds on behalf of our subsidiaries including credit support instruments enabling APSES to offer energy related products and surety bonds at APS, principally related to self insured workers compensation. Non performance or non payment under the underlying contract by our subsidiaries would result in a payment liability on our part under the guarantee or surety bond. No liability is currently recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to such instruments. At December 31, 2010, we had no outstanding claims for payment under any of these instruments. Our guarantees and surety bonds have no recourse or collateral provisions to allow us to recover amounts paid under these instruments or surety bonds from our subsidiaries. We generally agree to indemnification provisions related to liabilities arising from or related to certain of our agreements, with limited exceptions depending on the particular agreement. See Note 21 for additional information regarding guarantees and letters of credit. 69 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes Pinnacle Wests consolidated contractual requirements as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in millions): 2012 2014 2011 2013 2015 Thereafter Total Long term debt payments, including interest: (a) APS $ 673 $ 949 $ 1,071 $ 2,587 $ 5,280 Pinnacle West 177 177 Total long term debt payments, including interest and capital lease obligations 850 949 1,071 2,587 5,457 Short term debt payments, including interest (b) 17 17 Fuel and purchased power commitments (c) 381 824 1,070 7,084 9,359 Operating lease payments 24 38 27 9 98 Nuclear decommissioning funding requirements 24 49 49 137 259 Renewable energy credits (d) 57 40 40 196 333 Purchase obligations (e) 214 125 117 456 Noncontrolling interests 10 28 55 93 Total contractual commitments $ 1,577 $ 2,053 $ 2,312 $ 10,130 $ 16,072 (a) The long term debt matures at various dates through 2038 and bears interest principally at fixed rates. Interest on variable rate long term debt is determined by using average rates at December 31, 2010 (see Note 6). (b) The short term debt represents commercial paper borrowings at Pinnacle West (see Note 5). (c) Our fuel and purchased power commitments include purchases of coal, electricity, natural gas, renewable energy and nuclear fuel (see Notes 3 and 11). (d) Contracts to purchase renewable energy credits in compliance with the Renewable Energy Standard. (e) These contractual obligations include commitments for capital expenditures and other obligations. These amounts do not include the purchase of SCEs interest in Four Corners Units 4 and 5 due to additional approvals required. See discussion in Overview. This table excludes $133 million in unrecognized tax benefits because the timing of the future cash outflows is uncertain. This table also excludes $85 million in estimated minimum pension contributions in 2012 (see Note 8). CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES In preparing the financial statements in accordance with GAAP, management must often make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements and during the reporting period. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and actual results could differ from those estimates. We consider the following accounting policies to be our most critical because of the uncertainties, judgments and complexities of the underlying accounting standards and operations involved. 70 Table of Contents Regulatory Accounting Regulatory accounting allows for the actions of regulators, such as the ACC and the FERC, to be reflected in our financial statements. Their actions may cause us to capitalize costs that would otherwise be included as an expense in the current period by unregulated companies. Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that have been deferred because they are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent expected future costs that have already been collected from customers. Management continually assesses whether our regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory environment changes and recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction. This determination reflects the current political and regulatory climate in the state and is subject to change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the assets would be written off as a charge in current period earnings. We had $1.0 billion of regulatory assets and $753 million of regulatory liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2010. Included in the balance of regulatory assets at December 31, 2010 is a regulatory asset of $669 million for pension and other postretirement benefits. This regulatory asset represents the future recovery of these costs through retail rates as these amounts are charged to earnings. If these costs are disallowed by the ACC, this regulatory asset would be charged to OCI and result in lower future earnings. See Notes 1 and 3 for more information. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Accounting Changes in our actuarial assumptions used in calculating our pension and other postretirement benefit liability and expense can have a significant impact on our earnings and financial position. The most relevant actuarial assumptions are the discount rate used to measure our liability and net periodic cost, the expected long term rate of return on plan assets used to estimate earnings on invested funds over the long term, and the assumed healthcare cost trend rates. We review these assumptions on an annual basis and adjust them as necessary. 71 Table of Contents The following chart reflects the sensitivities that a change in certain actuarial assumptions would have had on the December 31, 2010 reported pension liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and our 2010 reported pension expense, after consideration of amounts capitalized or billed to electric plant participants, on Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Statements of Income (dollars in millions): Increase (Decrease) Impact on Impact on Pension Pension Actuarial Assumption (a) Liability Expense Discount rate: Increase 1% $ (261 ) $ (8 ) Decrease 1% 294 10 Expected long term rate of return on plan assets: Increase 1% (7 ) Decrease 1% 7 (a) Each fluctuation assumes that the other assumptions of the calculation are held constant while the rates are changed by one percentage point. The following chart reflects the sensitivities that a change in certain actuarial assumptions would have had on the December 31, 2010 reported other postretirement benefit obligation on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and our 2010 reported other postretirement benefit expense, after consideration of amounts capitalized or billed to electric plant participants, on Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Statements of Income (dollars in millions): Increase (Decrease) Impact on Other Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Postretirement Actuarial Assumption (a) Obligation Benefit Expense Discount rate: Increase 1% $ (118 ) $ (5 ) Decrease 1% 138 6 Health care cost trend rate (b): Increase 1% 134 9 Decrease 1% (107 ) (7 ) Expected long term rate of return on plan assets pretax: Increase 1% (2 ) Decrease 1% 2 (a) Each fluctuation assumes that the other assumptions of the calculation are held constant while the rates are changed by one percentage point. (b) This assumes a 1% change in the initial and ultimate health care cost trend rate. See Note 8 for further details about our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. 72 Table of Contents Derivative Accounting Derivative accounting requires evaluation of rules that are complex and subject to varying interpretations. Our evaluation of these rules, as they apply to our contracts, determines whether we use accrual accounting (for contracts designated as normal) or fair value (mark to market) accounting. Mark to market accounting requires that changes in the fair value are recognized periodically in income unless certain hedge criteria are met. For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognized in common stock equity (as a component of other comprehensive income (loss)) and the ineffective portion is recognized in current earnings. See Market Risks Commodity Price Risk below for quantitative analysis. See Fair Value Measurements below for additional information on valuation. See Note 1 for discussion on accounting policies and Note 18 for a further discussion on derivative accounting. Fair Value Measurements We apply recurring fair value measurements to derivative instruments, nuclear decommissioning trusts, certain cash equivalents and plan assets held in our retirement and other benefit plans. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. We use inputs, or assumptions that market participants would use, to determine fair market value. The significance of a particular input determines how the instrument is classified in the fair value hierarchy. We utilize valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The determination of fair value sometimes requires subjective and complex judgment. Our assessment of the inputs and the significance of a particular input to fair value measurement may affect the valuation of the instruments and their placement within the fair value hierarchy. Actual results could differ from our estimates of fair value. See Note 14 for further fair value measurement discussion, Note 1 for discussion on accounting policies and Note 18 for a further discussion on derivative accounting. Our nuclear decommissioning trusts invest in fixed income securities and equity securities. The fair values of these securities are based on observable inputs for identical or similar assets. See Note 14 for further discussion of our nuclear decommissioning trusts. Real Estate Investment Impairments While we do not have any real estate investments or home inventory at December 31, 2010, we did have real estate investments of $120 million and $3 million of home inventory on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2009. For purposes of evaluating impairment, in accordance with guidance on the impairment and disposal of long lived assets, we classified our real estate assets, such as land under development, land held for future development, and commercial property, as held and used. When events or changes in circumstances indicated that the carrying value of real estate assets considered held and used were not recoverable, we compared the undiscounted cash flows that we estimated would be generated by each asset to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount exceeded the undiscounted cash flows, we adjusted the asset to fair value and recognized an impairment charge. The adjusted value became the new book value (carrying amount) for held and used assets. We may have had real estate assets classified as held and used with fair values that were lower than their carrying amounts, but were not deemed to be impaired because the undiscounted cash flows exceeded the carrying amounts. 73 Table of Contents Real estate home inventory was considered to be held for sale for the purposes of evaluating impairment. Home inventories were reported at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. Fair value less cost to sell was evaluated each period to determine if it had changed. Losses (and gains not to exceed any cumulative loss previously recognized) were reported as adjustments to the carrying amount. We determined fair value for our real estate assets primarily based on the future cash flows that we estimated would be generated by each asset discounted for market risk. Our impairment assessments and fair value determinations required significant judgment regarding key assumptions such as future sales prices, future construction and land development costs, future sales timing, and discount rates. The assumptions were specific to each project and may have varied among projects. The discount rates we used to determine fair values at December 31, 2009 ranged from 11% to 29%. Due to the judgment and assumptions applied in the estimation process, with regard to impairments, it is possible that actual results could have differed from those estimates. OTHER ACCOUNTING MATTERS On January 1, 2010 we adopted amended accounting guidance relating to VIEs and, as a result, we have consolidated certain entities which were previously not consolidated. The consolidation of these entities has impacted our consolidated financial statements. See Notes 1, 2 and 20 for a discussion of these impacts. The FASB is currently working on several significant projects with the desire to converge GAAP with IFRS. These projects include accounting for leases, revenue recognition, and financial instruments, among other items. Concurrently, the SEC is considering mandating IFRS for U.S. companies. See Note 2 for a discussion of these potential changes. MARKET AND CREDIT RISKS Market Risks Our operations include managing market risks related to changes in interest rates, commodity prices and investments held by our nuclear decommissioning trust fund. Interest Rate and Equity Risk We have exposure to changing interest rates. Changing interest rates will affect interest paid on variable rate debt and the market value of fixed income securities held by our nuclear decommissioning trust fund (see Note 14). The nuclear decommissioning trust fund also has risks associated with the changing market value of its investments. Nuclear decommissioning costs are recovered in regulated electricity prices. 74 Table of Contents The tables below present contractual balances of our consolidated long term and short term debt at the expected maturity dates as well as the fair value of those instruments on December 31, 2010 and 2009. The interest rates presented in the tables below represent the weighted average interest rates as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in thousands): Pinnacle West Consolidated Variable Rate Fixed Rate Short Term Debt Long Term Debt Long Term Debt Interest Interest Interest 2010 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount 2011 0.84 % $ 16,600 0.32 % $ 26,710 6.32 % $ 605,169 2012 6.41 % 477,435 2013 0.32 % 16,870 4.94 % 122,828 2014 5.91 % 502,274 2015 4.79 % 313,420 Years thereafter 6.69 % 1,619,150 Total $ 16,600 $ 43,580 $ 3,640,276 Fair value $ 16,600 $ 43,580 $ 3,869,681 Pinnacle West Consolidated Variable Rate Fixed Rate Short Term Debt Long Term Debt Long Term Debt Interest Interest Interest 2009 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount 2010 1.09 % $ 153,715 1.66 % $ 276,636 7.90 % $ 26,840 2011 2.00 % 39,967 6.32 % 605,425 2012 5.25 % 38 6.41 % 477,674 2013 5.25 % 1,774 6.77 % 58,912 2014 5.91 % 502,499 Years thereafter 6.46 % 1,817,420 Total $ 153,715 $ 318,415 $ 3,488,770 Fair value $ 153,715 $ 318,415 $ 3,631,585 75 Table of Contents The tables below present contractual balances of APSs long term debt at the expected maturity dates as well as the fair value of those instruments on December 31, 2010 and 2009. The interest rates presented in the tables below represent the weighted average interest rates as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in thousands): APS Consolidated Variable Rate Fixed Rate Long Term Debt Long Term Debt Interest Interest 2010 Rates Amount Rates Amount 2011 0.32 % $ 26,710 6.48 % $ 430,169 2012 6.41 % 477,435 2013 0.32 % 16,870 4.94 % 122,828 2014 5.91 % 502,274 2015 4.79 % 313,420 Years thereafter 6.69 % 1,619,150 Total $ 43,580 $ 3,465,276 Fair value $ 43,580 $ 3,693,276 APS Consolidated Variable Rate Fixed Rate Long Term Debt Long Term Debt Interest Interest 2009 Rates Amount Rates Amount 2010 0.25 % $ 196,170 7.91 % $ 26,789 2011 0.26 % 26,710 6.48 % 430,398 2012 6.41 % 477,654 2013 6.77 % 58,910 2014 5.91 % 502,499 Years thereafter 6.46 % 1,817,420 Total $ 222,880 $ 3,313,670 Fair value $ 222,880 $ 3,451,255 Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the commodity price and transportation costs of electricity and natural gas. Our risk management committee, consisting of officers and key management personnel, oversees company wide energy risk management activities to ensure compliance with our stated energy risk management policies. We manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity instruments that qualify as derivatives, including exchange traded futures and options and over the counter forwards, options and swaps. As part of our risk management program, we use such instruments to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodities. 76 Table of Contents The following table shows the net pretax changes in mark to market of our derivative positions in 2010 and 2009 (dollars in millions): 2010 2009 Mark to market of net positions at beginning of year $ (169 ) $ (282 ) Recognized in earnings: Change in mark to market losses for future period deliveries (7 ) (4 ) Mark to market losses realized including ineffectiveness during the period 5 11 Decrease (increase) in regulatory asset (36 ) 76 Recognized in OCI: Change in mark to market losses for future period deliveries (a) (155 ) (155 ) Mark to market losses realized during the period 123 185 Change in valuation techniques Mark to market of net positions at end of year $ (239 ) $ (169 ) (a) The changes in mark to market recorded in OCI are due primarily to changes in forward natural gas prices. The table below shows the fair value of maturities of our derivative contracts (dollars in millions) at December 31, 2010 by maturities and by the type of valuation that is performed to calculate the fair values. See Note 1, Derivative Accounting and Fair Value Measurements, for more discussion of our valuation methods. Total Years fair Source of Fair Value 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter value Prices actively quoted $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (1 ) Prices provided by other external sources (139 ) (47 ) (14 ) (200 ) Prices based on models and other valuation methods (7 ) (4 ) (7 ) (6 ) (6 ) (8 ) (38 ) Total by maturity $ (147 ) $ (51 ) $ (21 ) $ (6 ) $ (6 ) $ (8 ) $ (239 ) 77 Table of Contents The table below shows the impact that hypothetical price movements of 10% would have on the market value of our risk management assets and liabilities included on Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in millions): December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Gain (Loss) Gain (Loss) Price Up 10% Price Down 10% Price Up 10% Price Down 10% Mark to market changes reported in: Earnings Electricity $ $ $ 1 $ (1 ) Natural gas 1 (1 ) 1 (1 ) Regulatory asset (liability) or OCI (a) Electricity 13 (13 ) 21 (21 ) Natural gas 42 (42 ) 59 (59 ) Total $ 56 $ (56 ) $ 82 $ (82 ) (a) These contracts are hedges of our forecasted purchases of natural gas and electricity. The impact of these hypothetical price movements would substantially offset the impact that these same price movements would have on the physical exposures being hedged. To the extent the amounts are eligible for inclusion in the PSA, the amounts are recorded as either a regulatory asset or liability. Credit Risk We are exposed to losses in the event of non performance or non payment by counterparties. See Note 18 for a discussion of our credit valuation adjustment policy. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK See Market and Credit Risks in Item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 78 Table of Contents 
 
