Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, these factors include, but are not limited to: our ability to achieve timely and adequate rate recovery of our costs, including returns on debt and equity capital; our ability to manage capital expenditures and other costs while maintaining reliability and customer service levels; variations in demand for electricity, including those due to weather, the general economy, customer and sales growth (or decline), and the effects of energy conservation measures and distributed generation; power plant and transmission system performance and outages; volatile fuel and purchased power costs; fuel and water supply availability; regulatory and judicial decisions, developments and proceedings; new legislation or regulation, including those relating to environmental requirements and nuclear plant operations; our ability to meet renewable energy and energy efficiency mandates and recover related costs; risks inherent in the operation of nuclear facilities, including spent fuel disposal uncertainty; competition in retail and wholesale power markets; the duration and severity of the economic decline in Arizona and current real estate market conditions; the cost of debt and equity capital and the ability to access capital markets when required; changes to our credit ratings; the investment performance of the assets of our nuclear decommissioning trust, pension, and other postretirement benefit plans and the resulting impact on future funding requirements; the liquidity of wholesale power markets and the use of derivative contracts in our business; potential shortfalls in insurance coverage; new accounting requirements or new interpretations of existing requirements; generation, transmission and distribution facility and system conditions and operating costs; the ability to meet the anticipated future need for additional baseload generation and associated transmission facilities in our region; the willingness or ability of our counterparties, power plant participants and power plant land owners to meet contractual or other obligations or extend the rights for continued power plant operations; technological developments affecting the electric industry; and restrictions on dividends or other provisions in our credit agreements and ACC orders. These and other factors are discussed in Risk Factors described in Item 1A of this report, which readers should review carefully before placing any reliance on our financial statements or disclosures. Neither Pinnacle West nor APS assumes any obligation to update these statements, even if our internal estimates change, except as required by law. 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Pinnacle West Pinnacle West is a holding company that conducts business through its subsidiaries. We derive essentially all of our revenues and earnings from our wholly owned subsidiary, APS. APS is a vertically integrated electric utility that provides either retail or wholesale electric service to most of the State of Arizona, with the major exceptions of about one half of the Phoenix metropolitan area, the Tucson metropolitan area and Mohave County in northwestern Arizona. Operating Revenues (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 APS $ 3,237,241 $ 3,180,807 $ 3,149,500 Pinnacle Wests other remaining first tier subsidiaries are SunCor and El Dorado. Additional information related to these businesses is provided later in this report. Our reportable business segment is our regulated electricity segment, which consists of traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electric service to Native Load customers) and related activities, and includes electricity generation, transmission and distribution. BUSINESS OF ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY APS currently provides electric service to approximately 1.1 million customers. We own or lease approximately 6,340 MW of regulated generation capacity and we hold a mix of both long term and short term purchased power agreements for additional capacity, including a variety of agreements for the purchase of renewable energy. During 2011, no single purchaser or user of energy accounted for more than 1.4% of our electric revenues. 3 Table of Contents The following map shows APSs retail service territory, including the locations of its generating facilities and principal transmission lines. 4 Table of Contents Energy Sources and Resource Planning To serve its customers, APS obtains power through its various generation stations and through purchased power agreements. Resource planning is an important function necessary to meet Arizonas future energy needs. APSs sources of energy by fuel type during 2011 were as follows: Generation Facilities APS has ownership interests in or leases the coal, nuclear, gas, oil and solar generating facilities described below. For additional information regarding these facilities, see Item 2. Coal Fueled Generating Facilities Four Corners Four Corners is a 5 unit coal fired power plant located in the northwestern corner of New Mexico. APS operates the plant and owns 100% of Four Corners Units 1, 2 and 3 and 15% of Units 4 and 5. APS has a total entitlement from Four Corners of 791 MW. The Four Corners plant site is leased from the Navajo Nation and is also subject to an easement from the federal government. APS purchases all of Four Corners coal requirements from a supplier with a long term lease of coal reserves with the Navajo Nation. The Four Corners coal contract runs through 2016. On November 8, 2010, APS and SCE entered into an asset purchase agreement providing for the purchase by APS of SCEs 48% interest in each of Units 4 and 5 of Four Corners. If consummated, APS would acquire 739 MW from SCE. Completion of the purchase by APS, which is expected to occur in the second half of 2012, is conditioned upon the receipt of regulatory approvals from the ACC, the California Public Utilities Commission and the FERC, the execution of a new coal supply contract, expiration of the waiting period under the Hart Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and other typical closing conditions. APS, on behalf of the Four Corners participants, has negotiated amendments to an existing facility lease with the Navajo Nation which would extend the term of the Four Corners leasehold 5 Table of Contents interest from 2016 to 2041. Execution by the Navajo Nation of the lease amendments is a condition to closing of the purchase by APS of SCEs interests in Four Corners. The execution of these amendments by the Navajo Nation requires the approval of the Navajo Nation Council, which became effective in March 2011. The effectiveness of the amendments also requires the approval of the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI), as does a related Federal rights of way grant, which the Four Corners participants will pursue. A Federal environmental review is underway as part of the DOI review process. APS has announced that, if APSs purchase of SCEs interests in Units 4 and 5 at Four Corners is consummated, it will close Units 1, 2 and 3 at the plant. These events would change the plants overall generating capacity from 2,100 MW to 1,540 MW and APSs entitlement from the plant from 791 MW to 970 MW. Cholla Cholla is a 4 unit coal fired power plant located in northeastern Arizona. APS operates the plant and owns 100% of Cholla Units 1, 2 and 3. PacifiCorp owns Cholla Unit 4, and APS operates that Unit for PacifiCorp. APS has a total entitlement from Cholla of 647 MW. APS purchases all of Chollas coal requirements from a coal supplier that mines all of the coal under long term leases of coal reserves with the federal government and private landholders. The Cholla coal contract runs through 2024. APS has the ability under the contract to reduce its annual coal commitment and purchase a portion of Chollas coal requirements on the spot market to take advantage of competitive pricing options and to purchase coal required for increased operating capacity. APS believes that the current fuel contracts and competitive fuel supply options ensure the continued operation of Cholla for its useful life. In addition, APS has a long term coal transportation contract. Navajo Generating Station The Navajo Plant is a 3 unit coal fired power plant located in northern Arizona. Salt River Project operates the plant and APS owns a 14% interest in Navajo Units 1, 2 and 3. APS has a total entitlement from the Navajo Plant of 315 MW. The Navajo Plants coal requirements are purchased from a supplier with long term leases from the Navajo Nation and the Hopi Tribe. The Navajo Plant is under contract with its coal supplier through 2019. The Navajo Plant site is leased from the Navajo Nation and is also subject to an easement from the federal government. These coal plants face uncertainties, including those related to existing and potential legislation and regulation, that could significantly impact their economics and operations. See Environmental Matters below and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Capital Expenditures in Item 7 for developments impacting these coal facilities. See Note 11 for information regarding APSs coal mine reclamation obligations. Nuclear Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station Palo Verde is a nuclear power plant located about 50 miles west of Phoenix, Arizona. APS operates the plant and owns 29.1% of Palo Verde Units 1 and 3 and about 17% of Unit 2. In addition, APS leases about 12.1% of Unit 2, resulting in a 29.1% combined ownership and leasehold interest in that Unit. APS has a total entitlement from Palo Verde of 1,146 MW. Palo Verde Leases In 1986, APS entered into agreements with three separate lessor trust entities in order to sell and lease back about 42% of its share of Palo Verde Unit 2 and certain common facilities. In accordance with the VIE accounting guidance, APS consolidates the lessor trust entities for financial 6 Table of Contents reporting purposes, and eliminates lease accounting for these transactions. The agreements have terms of 29.5 years (expiring at the end of 2015) and contain options to renew the leases or to purchase the property for fair market value at the end of the lease terms. APS must give notice to the respective lessor trusts between December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2012 if it wishes to exercise, or not exercise, either of these options. We are analyzing these options. See Note 20 for additional information regarding the Palo Verde Unit 2 sale leaseback transactions. Palo Verde Operating Licenses Operation of each of the three Palo Verde Units requires an operating license from the NRC. The NRC issued full power operating licenses for Unit 1 in June 1985, Unit 2 in April 1986 and Unit 3 in November 1987. The full power operating licenses, each valid for a period of 40 years, authorize APS, as operating agent for Palo Verde, to operate the three Palo Verde Units. On December 15, 2008, APS applied for renewed operating licenses for the Palo Verde Units for a period of 20 years beyond the expirations of the current licenses. On April 21, 2011, the NRC approved APSs application for renewed operating licenses for the Palo Verde Units, extending the licenses for Units 1, 2 and 3 to June 2045, April 2046, and November 2047, respectively. Palo Verde Fuel Cycle The Palo Verde participants are continually identifying their future nuclear fuel resource needs and negotiating arrangements to fill those needs. The fuel cycle for Palo Verde is comprised of the following stages: mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates; conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride; enrichment of uranium hexafluoride; fabrication of fuel assemblies; utilization of fuel assemblies in reactors; and storage and disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The Palo Verde participants have contracted for 95% of Palo Verdes requirements for uranium concentrates through 2015, 90% of its requirements in 2016 2017 and 80% of its requirements in 2018. The participants have also contracted for all of Palo Verdes conversion services through 2015 and 95% of its requirements in 2016 2018, all of Palo Verdes enrichment services through 2020 and all of Palo Verdes fuel assembly fabrication services through 2016. Spent Nuclear Fuel and Waste Disposal The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (NWPA) required the DOE to accept, transport, and dispose of spent nuclear fuel and high level waste generated by the nations nuclear power plants by 1998. The DOEs obligations are reflected in a Contract for Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel and or High Level Radioactive Waste (Standard Contract) with each nuclear power plant. The DOE failed to begin accepting Palo Verdes spent nuclear fuel by 1998, and APS (on behalf of itself and the other Palo Verde participants) filed a lawsuit for DOEs breach of the Palo Verde Standard Contract in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. The Court of Federal Claims ruled in favor of APS and in October 2010 awarded $30.2 million in damages to the Palo Verde participants for costs incurred through December 2006. The DOE had planned to meet its NWPA and Standard Contract disposal obligations by designing, licensing, constructing, and operating a permanent geologic repository at Yucca Mountain, Nevada. In June 2008, DOE submitted its application to the NRC to authorize construction of the Yucca Mountain repository. In March 2010, the DOE filed a motion to dismiss with prejudice its Yucca Mountain construction authorization application that was pending before the NRC. Several 7 Table of Contents interested parties have intervened in the NRC proceeding, and the proceeding has not been conclusively decided by the NRC or the courts. Additionally, a number of interested parties have filed a variety of lawsuits in different jurisdictions around the country challenging the DOEs authority to withdraw the Yucca Mountain construction authorization application. None of these lawsuits have been conclusively decided by the courts. On January 26, 2012, the Blue Ribbon Commission on Americas Nuclear Future (the Blue Ribbon Commission) made recommendations on managing the back end of the nuclear fuel cycle. The Commission was established in early 2010 at the direction of President Obama. The Presidents directive was based on his assessment that the nations approach to managing used nuclear fuel, primarily through the repository at Yucca Mountain, has proven to be ineffective. The Blue Ribbon Commissions report recommended a strategy with several key elements including: a new, consent based approach to siting future nuclear waste management facilities; a new organization dedicated solely to implementing the waste management program; access to the funds nuclear utility ratepayers are providing for the purpose of nuclear waste management; prompt efforts to develop geologic disposal facilities, consolidated storage facilities and to prepare for the eventual large scale transport of spent nuclear fuel and high level waste to consolidated storage and disposal facilities. We are monitoring this matter, but cannot predict the proposed timing for implementation of the recommended strategy. Palo Verde has sufficient capacity at its on site independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI) to store all of the nuclear fuel that will be irradiated during the initial operating license period, which ends in December 2027. Additionally, Palo Verde has sufficient capacity at its on site ISFSI to store a portion of the fuel that will be irradiated during the period of extended operation, which ends in November 2047. If uncertainties regarding the United States governments obligation to accept and store spent fuel are not favorably resolved, APS will evaluate alternative storage solutions that may obviate the need to expand the ISFSI to accommodate all of the fuel that will be irradiated during the period of extended operation. In addition to the spent fuel stored at Palo Verdes on site ISFSI, Palo Verde also generates certain types of low level radioactive waste that are stored on site. Currently, the Class B and Class C waste (the higher radioactivity of the low level wastes) is stored on site since industry access to a disposal site was eliminated several years ago. The NRC is considering regulations that would allow the industry to eliminate much of this waste by blending it with lower level Class A waste so that it can be disposed of at a facility such as the one Palo Verde utilizes in Utah. Nuclear Decommissioning Costs APS currently relies on an external sinking fund mechanism to meet the NRC financial assurance requirements for decommissioning its interests in Palo Verde Units 1, 2 and 3. The decommissioning costs of Palo Verde Units 1, 2 and 3 are currently included in APSs ACC jurisdictional rates. Decommissioning costs are recoverable through a non bypassable system benefits charge (paid by all retail customers taking service from the APS system). See Note 23 for additional information about APSs nuclear decommissioning costs. Palo Verde Liability and Insurance Matters See Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station Nuclear Insurance in Note 11 for a discussion of the insurance maintained by the Palo Verde participants, including APS, for Palo Verde. 8 Table of Contents Impact of Earthquake and Tsunami in Japan on Nuclear Energy Industry On March 11, 2011, a 9.0 magnitude earthquake occurred off the northeastern coast of Japan. The earthquake produced a tsunami that caused significant damage to the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station in Japan. Following these events, the NRC Commissioners launched a two pronged review of U.S. nuclear power plant safety. The NRC supported the establishment of an agency task force to conduct both a near and long term analysis of the lessons that can be learned from the situation in Japan. The near term task force issued a report on July 12, 2011, and on October 3, 2011, the NRC staff issued a plan for implementing the near term task forces recommendations. On October 18, 2011, the NRC Commissioners directed the NRC staff to implement, without delay, the near term task force recommendations, subject to certain conditions. One such condition is that the agency should strive to complete and implement lessons learned from the earthquake and tsunami in Japan within five years. A second condition is that the staff should designate the recommendation for a rulemaking to address extended loss of offsite power to be completed within 24 to 30 months. Until further action is taken by the NRC as a result of this event, we cannot predict any financial or operational impacts on Palo Verde or APS. Natural Gas and Oil Fueled Generating Facilities APS has six natural gas power plants located throughout Arizona, consisting of Redhawk, located near the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station; Ocotillo, located in Tempe; Sundance, located in Coolidge; West Phoenix, located in southwest Phoenix; Saguaro, located north of Tucson; and Yucca, located near Yuma. Several of the units at Saguaro and Yucca run on either gas or oil. APS has one oil only power plant, Douglas, located in the town of Douglas, Arizona. APS owns and operates each of these plants with the exception of one oil only combustion turbine unit and one oil and gas steam unit at Yucca that are operated by APS and owned by the Imperial Irrigation District. APS has a total entitlement from these plants of 3,389 MW. Gas for these plants is acquired through APSs hedging program. APS has long term gas transportation agreements with three different companies, some of which are effective through 2024. Fuel oil is acquired under short term purchases delivered primarily to West Phoenix, where it is distributed to APSs other oil power plants by truck. Solar Facilities To date, APS has begun operation of 50 MW of utility scale solar through its AZ Sun Program, discussed below. These facilities are owned by APS and are located in multiple locations throughout Arizona. Additionally, APS owns and operates more than forty small solar systems around the state. Together they have the capacity to produce about 5 MW of renewable energy. This fleet of solar systems includes a 3 MW facility located at the Prescott Airport, a 1 MW facility located at APSs Saguaro power plant and 1 MW of small solar in various locations across Arizona. APS is in the final stages of developing solar photovoltaic distributed energy systems installed as part of the Community Power Project in Flagstaff, Arizona. The Community Power Project, approved by the ACC on April 1, 2010, is a pilot program through which APS will own, operate and receive energy from approximately 1.5 MW of solar photovoltaic distributed energy systems located within a certain test area in Flagstaff, Arizona. 9 Table of Contents Purchased Power Contracts In addition to its own available generating capacity, APS purchases electricity under various arrangements, including long term contracts and purchases through short term markets to supplement its owned or leased generation and hedge its energy requirements. A substantial portion of APSs purchased power expense is netted against wholesale sales on the Consolidated Statements of Income. (See Note 18.) APS continually assesses its need for additional capacity resources to assure system reliability. Purchased Power Capacity APSs purchased power capacity under long term contracts, including its renewable energy portfolio, is summarized in the tables below. All capacity values are based on net capacity unless otherwise noted. Type Dates Available Capacity (MW) Purchase Agreement (a) Year round through December 2014 104 Purchase Agreement (b) Year round through June 14, 2020 60 Exchange Agreement (c) May 15 to September 15 annually through 2020 480 Tolling Agreement Year round through May 2017 500 Tolling Agreement Summer seasons through October 2019 560 Day Ahead Call Option Agreement Summer seasons through September 2015 500 Day Ahead Call Option Agreement Summer seasons through summer 2016 150 Demand Response Agreement (d) Summer seasons through 2024 100 Renewable Energy (e) Various 232 (a) The capacity under this agreement varies by month, with a maximum capacity of 104 MW. (b) Up to 60 MW of capacity is available; however, the amount of electricity available to APS under this agreement is based in large part on customer demand and is adjusted annually. (c) This is a seasonal capacity exchange agreement under which APS receives electricity during the summer peak season (from May 15 to September 15) and APS returns a like amount of electricity during the winter season (from October 15 to February 15). (d) The capacity under this agreement increases in phases over the first three years to reach the 100 MW level by the summer of 2012. (e) Renewable energy purchased power agreements are described in detail below under Current and Future Resources Renewable Energy Standard Renewable Energy Portfolio. Current and Future Resources Current Demand and Reserve Margin Electric power demand is generally seasonal. In Arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months. APSs 2011 peak one hour demand on its electric system was recorded on August 24, 2011 at 7,087 MW, compared to the 2010 peak of 6,936 MW recorded on July 15, 2010. APSs operable generating capacity, together with purchased power capacity, resulted in an actual reserve margin at the time of the 2011 peak demand of 28.7%. The power actually available to APS from its resources fluctuates from time to time due in part to planned and unplanned plant and transmission outages. 10 Table of Contents Future Resources and Resource Plan Under the ACCs resource planning rule, APS will file by April 1st of each even year its resource plans for the next fifteen year period. The first resource plan filing will be due by April 1, 2012. The rule requires the ACC to issue an order with its acknowledgment of APSs resource plan within approximately ten months following its submittal. The ACCs acknowledgment of APSs resource plan will consider factors such as the total cost of electric energy services, demand management, analysis of supply side options, system reliability and risk management. Renewable Energy Standard In 2006, the ACC adopted the RES. Under the RES, electric utilities that are regulated by the ACC must supply an increasing percentage of their retail electric energy sales from eligible renewable resources, including solar, wind, biomass, biogas and geothermal technologies. The renewable energy requirement is 3.5% of retail electric sales in 2012 and increases annually until it reaches 15% in 2025. In APSs 2009 retail rate case settlement agreement, APS committed to have 1,700 GWh of new renewable resources in service by year end 2015 in addition to its 2008 renewable resource commitments. Taken together, APSs commitment is estimated to be 3,400 GWh, or approximately 10% of retail sales, by year end 2015, which is double the existing RES target of 5% for that year. A component of the RES is focused on stimulating development of distributed energy systems (generally speaking, small scale renewable technologies that are located on customers properties). Accordingly, under the RES, an increasing percentage of that requirement must be supplied from distributed energy resources. This distributed energy requirement is 30% of the overall RES requirement of 3.5% in 2012. The following table summarizes these requirement standards and their timing: 2012 2015 2020 2025 RES as a % of retail electric sales 3.5 % 5 % 10 % 15 % Percent of RES to be supplied from distributed energy resources 30 % 30 % 30 % 30 % Renewable Energy Portfolio. To date, APS has a diverse portfolio of existing and planned renewable resources totaling 946 MW, including wind, geothermal, solar, biomass and biogas. Of this portfolio, 423 MW are currently in operation and 523 MW are under contract for development or are under construction. Renewable resources in operation include 55 MW of facilities owned by APS, 232 MW of long term purchased power agreements, and an estimated 136 MW of customer sited, third party owned distributed energy resources. APSs strategy to achieve its RES requirements includes executing purchased power contracts for new facilities, ongoing development of distributed energy resources and procurement of new facilities to be owned by APS. APS continues to develop owned solar resources through the AZ Sun Program. The AZ Sun Program allows APS to own up to 200 MW of solar photovoltaic power plants across Arizona by investing up to $975 million through 2015. Under this program to date, APS has executed contracts for the development of 83 MW of new solar generation, representing an investment commitment of approximately $375 million. See Note 3 for additional details about the AZ Sun Program, including the related cost recovery. 11 Table of Contents The following table summarizes APSs renewable energy sources currently in operation and under development. Agreements for the development and completion of future resources are subject to various conditions, including successful siting, permitting and interconnection of the projects to the electric grid. Location Actual/ Target Commercial Operation Date Term (Years) Net Capacity In Operation (MW AC) Net Capacity Planned/ Under Development (MW AC) APS Owned Solar: AZ Sun Program: Paloma Gila Bend, AZ 2011 17 Cotton Center Gila Bend, AZ 2011 17 Hyder Phase 1 Hyder, AZ 2011 11 Hyder Phase 2 Hyder, AZ 2012 5 Chino Valley Chino Valley, AZ 2012 19 Luke AFB Glendale, AZ 2013 (a) 14 Subtotal AZ Sun Program (b) 50 33 Multiple Facilities AZ Various 5 Total APS Owned 55 33 Purchased Power Agreements Solar: Solana (c) Gila Bend, AZ 2013 30 250 RE Ajo Ajo, AZ 2011 25 5 Sun E AZ 1 Prescott, AZ 2011 30 10 Solar 1 (d) Tonopah, AZ 2012 30 15 Solar 2 (d) Tonopah, AZ 2013 30 15 Solar 3 (d) Maricopa County, AZ 2013 30 15 Wind: Aragonne Mesa Santa Rosa, NM 2006 20 90 High Lonesome Mountainair, NM 2009 30 100 Perrin Ranch Wind Williams, AZ 2012 25 99 Geothermal: Salton Sea Imperial County, CA 2006 23 10 Biomass: Snowflake Snowflake, AZ 2008 15 14 Biogas: Glendale Landfill Glendale, AZ 2010 20 3 Landfill 1 (d) Surprise, AZ 2012 20 3 Total Purchased Power Agreements 232 397 Distributed Energy Solar (e) APS Owned (f) AZ various 1 Third party Owned (g) AZ various 121 58 Agreement 1 Bagdad, AZ 2011 25 15 Agreement 2 (h) AZ 2012 2014 20 25 34 Total Distributed Energy 136 93 Total Renewable Portfolio 423 523 12 Table of Contents (a) Subject to approval by the United States Department of Defense. (b) Under the AZ Sun Program, 117 MW remains to be contracted. (c) Represents contracted capacity. (d) Details of these agreements have not yet been publicly announced. (e) Distributed generation is produced in DC and is converted to AC for reporting purposes. (f) Reflects Community Power Project. (g) Achieved through incentive based programs. Includes resources with production based incentives that have terms of 10 20 years. (h) Agreement ramps up to 40 MW over three years. Demand Side Management In recent years, Arizona regulators have placed an increased focus on energy efficiency and other demand side management programs to encourage customers to conserve energy, while incentivizing utilities to aid in these efforts that ultimately reduce the demand for energy. In December 2009, the ACC initiated its Energy Efficiency rulemaking, with a proposed Energy Efficiency Standard of 22% cumulative annual energy savings by 2020. This standard was adopted and became effective on January 1, 2011. This ambitious standard will likely impact Arizonas future energy resource needs. (See Note 3 for energy efficiency and other demand side management obligations resulting from the settlement agreement related to APSs 2008 retail rate case.) Economic Stimulus Projects Through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), the Federal government made a number of programs available for utilities to develop renewable resources, improve reliability and create jobs by using economic stimulus funding. Certain programs are also available through the State of Arizona. APS has two active awards with the DOE. The first is a $3 million high penetration photovoltaic generation study related to the Community Power Project in Flagstaff, Arizona. Second, APS is a sub recipient under an approximately $4 million ARRA award received through the State of Arizona for the implementation of various distributed energy and energy efficiency programs in Arizona. DOE funding for these awards will continue to be contingent upon APS meeting certain project milestones, including DOE established budget parameters. Competitive Environment and Regulatory Oversight Retail The ACC regulates APSs retail electric rates and its issuance of securities. The ACC must also approve any significant transfer or encumbrance of APSs property used to provide retail electric service and approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between Pinnacle West, APS and their respective affiliates. APS is subject to varying degrees of competition from other investor owned electric and gas utilities in Arizona (such as Southwest Gas Corporation), as well as cooperatives, municipalities, electrical districts and similar types of governmental or non profit organizations. In addition, some 13 Table of Contents customers, particularly industrial and large commercial customers, may own and operate generation facilities to meet some or all of their own energy requirements. This practice is becoming more popular with customers installing or having installed products such as roof top solar panels to meet or supplement their energy needs. In 1999, the ACC approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in Arizona. As a result, as of January 1, 2001, all of APSs retail customers were eligible to choose alternate energy suppliers. However, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to APSs customers. In 2000, the Arizona Superior Court found that the rules were in part unconstitutional and in other respects unlawful, the latter finding being primarily on procedural grounds, and invalidated all ACC orders authorizing competitive electric services providers to operate in Arizona. In 2004, the Arizona Court of Appeals invalidated some, but not all of the rules and upheld the invalidation of the orders authorizing competitive electric service providers. In 2005, the Arizona Supreme Court declined to review the Court of Appeals decision. To date, the ACC has taken no further or substantive action on either the rules or the prior orders authorizing competitive electric service providers in response to the final Court of Appeals decision. In 2008, the ACC directed the ACC staff to investigate whether such retail competition was in the public interest and what legal impediments remain to competition in light of the Court of Appeals decision referenced above. The ACC staffs report on the results of its investigation was issued on August 12, 2010. The report stated that additional analysis, discussion and study of all aspects of the issue are required in order to perform a proper evaluation. While the report did not make any specific recommendations other than to conduct more workshops, the report did state that the current retail electric competition rules are incomplete and in need of modification. On April 14, 2010, the ACC issued a decision holding that solar vendors that install and operate solar facilities for non profit schools and governments pursuant to a specific type of contract that calculates payments based on the energy produced are not public service corporations under the Arizona Constitution, and are therefore not regulated by the ACC. A second matter is pending with the ACC to determine whether that ruling should extend to solar providers who serve a broader customer base under the same business model. Use of such products by customers within our territory would result in some level of competition. APS cannot predict when, and the extent to which, additional electric service providers will enter or re enter APSs service territory. Wholesale The FERC regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services. (See Note 3 for information regarding APSs transmission rates.) During 2011, approximately 4.8% of APSs electric operating revenues resulted from such sales and services. APSs wholesale activity primarily consists of managing fuel and purchased power supplies to serve retail customer energy requirements. APS also sells, in the wholesale market, its generation output that is not needed for APSs Native Load and, in doing so, competes with other utilities, power marketers and independent power producers. Additionally, subject to specified parameters, APS hedges both electricity and fuels. The majority of these activities are undertaken to mitigate risk in APSs portfolio. 14 Table of Contents Environmental Matters Climate Change Legislative Initiatives. In the past several years, the United States Congress has considered bills that would regulate domestic greenhouse gas emissions. There have been no attempts by the 112th Congress to pass legislation that would regulate greenhouse gas emissions. With Congresss focus on the economy, it is unclear when it will again consider a climate change bill. In the event climate change legislation is ultimately passed, the actual economic and operational impact of such legislation on APS depends on a variety of factors, none of which can be fully known until a law is enacted and the specifics of the resulting program are established. These factors include the terms of the legislation with regard to allowed emissions; whether any permitted emissions allowances will be allocated to source operators free of cost or auctioned; the cost to reduce emissions or buy allowances in the marketplace; and the availability of offsets and mitigating factors to moderate the costs of compliance. In addition to federal legislative initiatives, state specific initiatives may also impact our business. While Arizona has no pending legislation and no proposed agency rule regulating greenhouse gases in Arizona, the California legislature enacted AB 32 and SB 1368 in 2006 to address greenhouse gas emissions. In October 2011, the California Air Resources Board approved final regulations that will establish a state wide cap on greenhouse gas emissions beginning on January 1, 2013 and will establish a greenhouse gas allowance trading program under that cap. The first phase of the program, which will apply to, among other entities, electric utilities and importers of electricity, is scheduled to commence on January 1, 2013. In addition, in 2010 the New Mexico Environmental Improvement Board enacted a greenhouse gas cap and trade program, which was repealed on February 6, 2012, and an emissions cap, which is scheduled to become effective in 2013 but is undergoing further review. We are monitoring Arizona regulatory activities and other state legislative developments to understand the extent to which they may affect our business, including our sales into the impacted states or the ability of our out of state power plant participants to continue their participation in certain coal fired power plants. In particular, SCE, a participant in Four Corners, has indicated that SB 1368 may prohibit it from making emission control expenditures at the plant. (See Energy Sources and Resource Planning Generation Facilities Coal Fueled Generating Facilities Four Corners above for details of the pending sale of SCEs interest in Four Corners to APS.) Regulatory Initiatives. In December 2009, the EPA determined that greenhouse gas emissions endanger public health and welfare. This determination was made in response to a 2007 United States Supreme Court ruling that greenhouse gases fit within the Clean Air Acts broad definition of air pollutant and, as a result, the EPA has the authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions of new motor vehicles under the Clean Air Act. As a result of this endangerment finding, the EPA determined that the Clean Air Act required new regulatory requirements for new and modified major greenhouse gas emitting sources, including power plants. On June 3, 2010, the EPA issued a rule under the Clean Air Act, known as the tailoring rule, establishing new greenhouse gas emissions thresholds that determine when sources, including power plants, must obtain air operating permits or New Source Review permits. New Source Review is a pre construction permitting program under the Clean Air Act that requires analysis of pollution controls prior to building a new stationary source or making major modifications to an existing stationary source. The tailoring rule became effective on August 2, 2010 and it became applicable to power plants on January 2, 2011. Several groups have filed lawsuits challenging the EPAs endangerment finding and the tailoring rule, and that litigation 15 Table of Contents continues. At the present time, we cannot predict whether the parties challenging the endangerment finding or the tailoring rule will be successful. APS does not expect the tailoring rule to have a significant impact on its current operations. The rule will require APS to consider the impact of greenhouse gas emissions as part of its traditional New Source Review analysis for new sources and major modifications to existing plants. On December 30, 2010, pursuant to its authority under the Clean Air Act, the EPA finalized a greenhouse gas Federal Implementation Plan (FIP) for Arizona relating to pre construction permits for construction of new sources or major modifications of existing sources. As a result of this action, effective January 2, 2011, the EPA assumed responsibility for acting on permit applications for only the greenhouse gas portion of such pre construction permits. State permitting authorities will continue to retain responsibility for the remaining parts of pre construction permits that are unrelated to emissions of greenhouse gasses. To the extent Arizona seeks and receives from the EPA a delegation of permitting authority for greenhouse gas emissions, the state will assume responsibility for issuing both the greenhouse gas and non greenhouse gas portions of pre construction permits. The greenhouse gas FIP will remain in place until such time as the EPA approves a State Implementation Plan (SIP) that applies pre construction permit requirements to greenhouse gas emitting stationary sources in Arizona. APS does not expect the greenhouse gas FIP to have a significant impact on its current operations. Pursuant to its authority under the Clean Air Act, the EPA has also drafted proposed New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) for greenhouse gas emissions from certain new and modified electric generating units. The proposed standards are currently under review at the White House Office of Management and Budget, and a final rule is expected in 2012. In addition, it is possible that the EPA will propose standards setting federal emission guidelines for existing electric generating facilities in 2012. The NSPS for greenhouse gas emissions are expected to apply to Four Corners, Cholla, and the Navajo Plant. We cannot currently predict the impact of these anticipated rules on APSs operations. At the present time, we cannot predict what other rules or regulations may ultimately result from the EPAs endangerment finding and what impact other potential rules or regulations will have on APSs operations. If any emission reduction legislation or additional regulations are enacted, we will assess our compliance alternatives, which may include replacement of existing equipment, installation of additional pollution control equipment, purchase of allowances, retirement or suspension of operations at certain coal fired facilities, or other actions. Although associated capital expenditures or operating costs resulting from greenhouse gas emission regulations or legislation could be material, we believe that we would be able to recover the costs of these environmental compliance initiatives through our rates. Company Response to Climate Change Initiatives. We have undertaken a number of initiatives to address emission concerns, including renewable energy procurement and development, promotion of programs and rates that promote energy conservation, renewable energy use and energy efficiency. (See Energy Sources and Resource Planning Current and Future Resources above for details of these plans and initiatives.) APS currently has a diverse portfolio of renewable resources, including wind, geothermal, solar, and biomass, and we are focused on increasing the percentage of our energy that is produced by renewable resources. 16 Table of Contents Pinnacle West prepares an annual Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on our website (www.pinnaclewest.com). The report provides information related to the Company and its approach to sustainability and its workplace and environmental performance. The information on Pinnacle Wests website, including the Corporate Responsibility Report, is not incorporated by reference into this report. Climate Change Lawsuit. In February 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina, Alaska filed a lawsuit in federal court in the Northern District of California against nine oil companies, fourteen power companies (including Pinnacle West), and a coal company, alleging that the defendants emissions of carbon dioxide contribute to global warming and constitute a public and private nuisance under both federal and state law. The plaintiffs also allege that the effects of global warming will require the relocation of the village, and they are seeking an unspecified amount of monetary damages. In June 2008, the defendants filed motions to dismiss the action, which were granted. The plaintiffs filed an appeal with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in November 2009, and Pinnacle West filed its reply on June 30, 2010. On January 24, 2011, the defendants filed a motion, which was later granted, to defer calendaring of oral argument until after the United States Supreme Court ruled in a similar nuisance lawsuit, American Electric Power Co., Inc. v. Connecticut. On June 20, 2011, the Supreme Court issued its opinion in Connecticut holding, among other things, that the Clean Air Act and the EPA actions authorized by the act, which are aimed at controlling greenhouse gas emissions, displace any federal common law right to seek abatement of greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuel fired power plants. However, the Court left open the issue of whether such claims may be available under state law. Oral argument in the Kivalina case was heard on November 28, 2011; the parties await the courts decision. We believe the action in Kivalina is without merit and will continue to defend against both the federal and state claims. EPA Environmental Regulation Regional Haze Rules. Over a decade ago, the EPA announced regional haze rules to reduce visibility impairment in national parks and wilderness areas. The rules require states (or, for sources located on tribal land, the EPA) to determine what pollution control technologies constitute the best available retrofit technology (BART) for certain older major stationary sources. The EPA subsequently issued the Clean Air Visibility Rule, which provides guidelines on how to perform a BART analysis. The Four Corners and Navajo Plant participants obligations to comply with the EPAs final BART determinations (and Chollas obligations to comply with ADEQs determinations), coupled with the financial impact of potential future climate change legislation, other environmental regulations, and other business considerations, could jeopardize the economic viability of these plants or the ability of individual participants to continue their participation in these plants. Cholla. In 2007, ADEQ required APS to perform a BART analysis for Cholla pursuant to the Clean Air Visibility Rule. APS completed the BART analysis for Cholla and submitted its BART recommendations to ADEQ on February 4, 2008. The recommendations include the installation of certain pollution control equipment that APS believes constitutes BART. ADEQ reviewed APSs recommendations and submitted its proposed BART SIP for Cholla and other sources within the state on March 2, 2011. The EPA may accept the proposed SIP or reject part or all of it if the EPA determines the SIP is inadequate. If the EPA rejects the proposed SIP provisions applicable to Cholla, 17 Table of Contents it could issue a FIP for the plant that includes more stringent pollution control technology requirements and emission limits. On December 2, 2011, the EPA provided notice of a proposed consent decree to address a lawsuit filed by a number of environmental organizations, which alleged that the EPA failed to promulgate FIPs for states that have not yet submitted all or part of the required BART SIPs. The proposed consent decree establishes proposed and final promulgation deadlines (May 15, 2012 and November 15, 2012, respectively) for the EPA to promulgate regional haze FIPs or approve regional haze SIPs for 34 states, including Arizona. On January 3, 2012, APS submitted comments to the EPA regarding the proposed consent decree. Once APS receives a final determination as to what constitutes BART for Cholla, we will have up to five years to complete the installation of the equipment and to achieve the BART emission limits. However, in order to coordinate with the plants other scheduled activities, APS is currently implementing portions of its recommended plan for Cholla on a voluntary basis. Costs related to the implementation of these portions of our recommended plan are included in our environmental expenditure estimates (see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Expenditures in Item 7). Four Corners and the Navajo Plant. The EPA previously requested that APS, as the operating agent for Four Corners, and SRP, as the operating agent for the Navajo Plant, perform a BART analysis for Four Corners and the Navajo Plant, respectively. APS and SRP each submitted an analysis to the EPA concluding that certain combustion control equipment constitutes BART for these plants. Based on the analyses and comments received through EPAs rulemaking process, the EPA will determine what it believes constitutes BART for each plant. On October 6, 2010, the EPA issued its proposed BART determination for Four Corners. The proposed rule would require the installation of post combustion controls on each of Units 1 5 at Four Corners to reduce nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions. Current estimates indicate that APSs total costs for these controls could be up to approximately $400 million for Four Corners. If APSs purchase of SCEs interest in Units 4 and 5 is consummated and Units 1 3 are closed, APSs total costs for these controls would be approximately $300 million. (See Energy Sources and Resource Planning Generation Facilities Coal Fueled Generating Facilities Four Corners for details of this proposed transaction.) The EPA also indicated in the proposal that it may require the installation of electrostatic precipitators or baghouses on Units 1, 2, and 3 to reduce particulate matter emissions. APS estimates that its total costs for such particulate removal equipment is approximately $220 million, which may also be required under the mercury rules. (See Environmental Matters Mercury and Other Hazardous Air Pollutants below for additional information on these rules.) The EPA proposed a 10% stack opacity limitation for all five units and a 20% opacity limitation on certain fugitive dust emissions, although the proposed fugitive dust provision is unrelated to BART. On November 24, 2010, APS submitted a letter to the EPA proposing an alternative to the EPAs October BART proposal. Specifically, APS proposed to close Four Corners Units 1, 2, and 3 by 2014 and to install post combustion pollution controls for NOx on Units 4 and 5 by the end of 2018, provided that the EPA agrees to a contemporaneous resolution of Four Corners obligations or liability, if any, under the regional haze and reasonably attributable visibility impairment programs, the New Source Review program, and NSPS programs of the Clean Air Act. 18 Table of Contents On February 10, 2011, the EPA signed a Supplemental Notice Requesting Comment, related to the BART rulemaking for Four Corners. In the Supplemental Notice, the EPA proposed to find that a different alternative emission control strategy, based upon APSs November 2010 proposal, would achieve more progress than the EPAs October 2010 BART proposal. The Supplemental Notice proposes that Units 1, 2, and 3 would close by 2014, post combustion pollution controls for NOx would be installed on Units 4 and 5 by July 31, 2018, and the NOx emission limitation for Units 4 and 5 would be 0.098 lbs/MMBtu, rather than the 0.11 lbs/MMBtu proposed by the EPA in October 2010. APS provided comments to the EPA on both proposals and continues to evaluate them. The EPA has not yet issued a proposed rule for the Navajo Plant. SRPs recommended plan for the Navajo Plant includes the installation of combustion control equipment, with an estimated cost to APS of approximately $6 million based on APSs Navajo Plant ownership interest. If the EPA determines that post combustion controls are required, APSs total costs could be up to approximately $93 million for the Navajo Plant. The Four Corners and the Navajo Plant participants will have up to five years after the EPA issues its final determinations to achieve compliance with their respective BART requirements. In order to coordinate with each plants other scheduled activities, the plants are currently implementing portions of their recommended plans described above on a voluntary basis. APSs share of the costs related to the implementation of these portions of the recommended plans are included in our environmental expenditure estimates (see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Expenditures in Item 7). Mercury and other Hazardous Air Pollutants. On December 16, 2011, the EPA issued the final Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS), which established maximum achievable control technology (MACT) standards to regulate emissions of mercury and other hazardous air pollutants from fossil fired power plants. APS will have three (potentially four if the permitting authority grants a one year extension) years after the effective date of the rule to achieve compliance. The MATS will require APS to install additional pollution control equipment. APS has installed, and continues to install, certain of the equipment necessary to meet the anticipated standards. APS estimates that the cost for equipment necessary to meet these standards is approximately $220 million for Four Corners Units 1 3 and $89 million for Cholla Units 1 3. The estimated costs for Four Corners Units 1 3 are not included in our current environmental expenditure estimates since our estimates assume the consummation of APSs purchase of SCEs interest in Four Corners Units 4 and 5 and the subsequent shut down of Units 1 3. Chollas estimated costs for the next three years are included in our environmental expenditure estimates. (See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Expenditures in Item 7 for details of our capital expenditure estimates). SRP, the operating agent for the Navajo Plant, is still evaluating compliance options under the MATS. If it is determined that the installation of polishing baghouses is required, APSs total costs could be up to approximately $92 million for the Navajo Plant. Cooling Water Intake Structures. The EPA issued its proposed cooling water intake structures rule on April 20, 2011, which provides national standards applicable to certain cooling water intake structures at existing power plants and other facilities pursuant to Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act. The proposed standards are intended to protect fish and other aquatic organisms by minimizing impingement mortality (the capture of aquatic wildlife on intake structures or against screens) and entrainment mortality (the capture of fish or shellfish in water flow entering and passing through intake structures). To minimize impingement mortality, the proposed rule would require 19 Table of Contents facilities, such as Four Corners and the Navajo Plant, to either demonstrate that impingement mortality at its cooling water intakes does not exceed a specified rate or reduce the flow at those structures to less than a specified velocity, and to take certain protective measures with respect to impinged fish. To minimize entrainment mortality, the proposed rule would also require these facilities to conduct a structured site specific analysis to determine what site specific controls, if any, should be required. Additional studies and a peer review process will also be required at these facilities. As proposed, existing facilities subject to the rule would have to comply with the impingement mortality requirements as soon as possible, but in no event later than eight years after the effective date of the rule, and would have to comply with the entrainment requirements as soon as possible under a schedule of compliance established by the permitting authority. APS is performing analyses to determine the costs of compliance with the proposed rule. APS filed comments on the proposed rule on July 21, 2011. Coal Combustion Waste. On June 21, 2010, the EPA released its proposed regulations governing the handling and disposal of coal combustion residuals (CCRs), such as fly ash and bottom ash. APS currently disposes of CCRs in ash ponds and dry storage areas at Cholla and Four Corners, and also sells a portion of its fly ash for beneficial reuse as a constituent in concrete production. The EPA proposes regulating CCRs as either non hazardous waste or hazardous waste and requested comments on three different alternatives. The hazardous waste proposal would phase out the use of ash ponds for disposal of CCRs. The other two proposals would regulate CCRs as non hazardous waste and impose performance standards for ash disposal. One of these proposals would require retrofitting or closure of currently unlined ash ponds, while the other proposal would not require the installation of liners or pond closures. The EPA has not yet indicated a preference for any of the alternatives. APS filed comments on the proposed rule during the public comment period, which ended on November 19, 2010. Although we do not know when the EPA will issue a final rule or by when compliance will ultimately be required, it is expected that the agency may take final action on the rule in 2012. We cannot currently predict the outcome of the EPAs actions or whether such actions will have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards. In March 2008, the EPA adopted new, more stringent eight hour ozone standards, known as national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS). In January 2010, the EPA proposed to adopt even more stringent eight hour ozone NAAQS. However, on September 2, 2011, President Obama decided to withdraw the EPAs revised ozone standards until at least 2013 when the EPA would be required to review them as part of its five year NAAQS review process. As ozone standards become more stringent, our fossil generation units may come under increasing pressure to reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides and volatile organic compounds and or to generate emission offsets for new projects or facility expansions. At this time, APS is unable to predict what impact the adoption of these standards may have on its financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. New Source Review. On April 6, 2009, APS received a request from the EPA under Section 114 of the Clean Air Act seeking detailed information regarding projects at and operations of Four Corners. This request is part of an enforcement initiative that the EPA has undertaken under the Clean Air Act. The EPA has taken the position that many utilities have made certain physical or operational changes at their plants that should have triggered additional regulatory requirements under the New Source Review provisions of the Clean Air Act. Other electric utilities have received and responded to similar Section 114 requests, and several of them have been the subject of notices of violation and 20 Table of Contents lawsuits by the EPA. APS responded to the EPAs request in August 2009 and is currently unable to predict the timing or content of the EPAs response, if any, or any resulting actions. On October 4, 2011, Earthjustice, on behalf of several environmental organizations, filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of New Mexico against APS and the other Four Corners participants alleging violations of the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) provisions of the Clean Air Act. Subsequent to filing its original Complaint, on January 6, 2012, Earthjustice filed a First Amended Complaint adding claims for violations of the Clean Air Acts NSPS program. Among other things, the plaintiffs seek to have the court enjoin operations at Four Corners until APS applies for and obtains any required PSD permits and complies with the NSPS. The plaintiffs further request the court to order the payment of civil penalties, including a beneficial mitigation project. APS believes the claims in this matter are without merit and will vigorously defend against them. Endangered Species Act. On January 30, 2011, the Center for Biological Diversity, Dine Citizens Against Ruining Our Environment, and San Juan Citizens Alliance filed a lawsuit against the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSM) and the DOI, alleging that OSM failed to engage in mandatory Endangered Species Act (ESA) consultation with the Fish and Wildlife Service prior to authorizing the renewal of an operating permit for the mine that serves Four Corners. The lawsuit alleges that activities at the mine, including mining and the disposal of coal combustion residue, will adversely affect several endangered species and their critical habitats. The lawsuit requests the court to vacate and remand the mining permit and enjoin all activities carried out under the permit until OSM has complied with the ESA. Although we are not a party to the lawsuit, we continue to evaluate the lawsuit to determine its potential impact on plant operations. Superfund. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund) establishes liability for the cleanup of hazardous substances found contaminating the soil, water or air. Those who generated, transported or disposed of hazardous substances at a contaminated site are among those who are PRPs. PRPs may be strictly, and often are jointly and severally, liable for clean up. On September 3, 2003, the EPA advised APS that the EPA considers APS to be a PRP in the Motorola 52nd Street Superfund Site, Operable Unit 3 (OU3) in Phoenix, Arizona. APS has facilities that are within this Superfund site. APS and Pinnacle West have agreed with the EPA to perform certain investigative activities of the APS facilities within OU3. In addition, on September 23, 2009, APS agreed with the EPA and one other PRP to voluntarily assist with the funding and management of the site wide groundwater remedial investigation and feasibility study work plan. APS estimates that its costs related to this investigation and study will be approximately $1 million. We anticipate incurring additional expenditures in the future, but because the overall investigation is not complete and ultimate remediation requirements are not yet finalized, at the present time we cannot accurately estimate our total expenditures. Manufactured Gas Plant Sites. Certain properties which APS now owns or which were previously owned by it or its corporate predecessors were at one time sites of, or sites associated with, manufactured gas plants. APS is taking action to voluntarily remediate these sites. APS does not expect these matters to have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 21 Table of Contents Navajo Nation Environmental Issues Four Corners and the Navajo Plant are located on the Navajo Reservation and are held under easements granted by the federal government as well as leases from the Navajo Nation. See Energy Sources and Resource Planning Generation Facilities Coal Fueled Generating Facilities above for additional information regarding these plants. In July 1995, the Navajo Nation enacted the Navajo Nation Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, the Navajo Nation Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Navajo Nation Pesticide Act (collectively, the Navajo Acts). The Navajo Acts purport to give the Navajo Nation Environmental Protection Agency authority to promulgate regulations covering air quality, drinking water, and pesticide activities, including those activities that occur at Four Corners and the Navajo Plant. On October 17, 1995, the Four Corners participants and the Navajo Plant participants each filed a lawsuit in the District Court of the Navajo Nation, Window Rock District, challenging the applicability of the Navajo Acts as to Four Corners and the Navajo Plant. The Court has stayed these proceedings pursuant to a request by the parties, and the parties are seeking to negotiate a settlement. In April 2000, the Navajo Nation Council approved operating permit regulations under the Navajo Nation Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act. APS believes the Navajo Nation exceeded its authority when it adopted the operating permit regulations. On July 12, 2000, the Four Corners participants and the Navajo Plant participants each filed a petition with the Navajo Supreme Court for review of these regulations. Those proceedings have been stayed, pending the settlement negotiations mentioned above. APS cannot currently predict the outcome of this matter. On May 18, 2005, APS, Salt River Project, as the operating agent for the Navajo Plant, and the Navajo Nation executed a Voluntary Compliance Agreement to resolve their disputes regarding the Navajo Nation Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act. As a result of this agreement, APS sought, and the courts granted, dismissal of the pending litigation in the Navajo Nation Supreme Court and the Navajo Nation District Court, to the extent the claims relate to the Clean Air Act. The agreement does not address or resolve any dispute relating to other Navajo Acts. APS cannot currently predict the outcome of this matter. Water Supply Assured supplies of water are important for APSs generating plants. At the present time, APS has adequate water to meet its needs. However, the Four Corners region, in which Four Corners is located, has been experiencing drought conditions that may affect the water supply for the plants if adequate moisture is not received in the watershed that supplies the area. APS is continuing to work with area stakeholders to implement agreements to minimize the effect, if any, on future operations of the plant. The effect of the drought cannot be fully assessed at this time, and APS cannot predict the ultimate outcome, if any, of the drought or whether the drought will adversely affect the amount of power available, or the price thereof, from Four Corners. Conflicting claims to limited amounts of water in the southwestern United States have resulted in numerous court actions, which, in addition to future supply conditions, have the potential to impact APS operations. San Juan River Adjudication. Both groundwater and surface water in areas important to APSs operations have been the subject of inquiries, claims, and legal proceedings, which will require 22 Table of Contents a number of years to resolve. APS is one of a number of parties in a proceeding, filed March 13, 1975, before the Eleventh Judicial District Court in New Mexico to adjudicate rights to a stream system from which water for Four Corners is derived. An agreement reached with the Navajo Nation in 1985, however, provides that if Four Corners loses a portion of its rights in the adjudication, the Navajo Nation will provide, for an agreed upon cost, sufficient water from its allocation to offset the loss. Gila River Adjudication. A summons served on APS in early 1986 required all water claimants in the Lower Gila River Watershed in Arizona to assert any claims to water on or before January 20, 1987, in an action pending in Maricopa County, Arizona, Superior Court. Palo Verde is located within the geographic area subject to the summons. APSs rights and the rights of the other Palo Verde participants to the use of groundwater and effluent at Palo Verde are potentially at issue in this action. As operating agent of Palo Verde, APS filed claims that dispute the courts jurisdiction over the Palo Verde participants groundwater rights and their contractual rights to effluent relating to Palo Verde. Alternatively, APS seeks confirmation of such rights. Five of APSs other power plants are also located within the geographic area subject to the summons. APSs claims dispute the courts jurisdiction over its groundwater rights with respect to these plants. Alternatively, APS seeks confirmation of such rights. In November 1999, the Arizona Supreme Court issued a decision confirming that certain groundwater rights may be available to the federal government and Indian tribes. In addition, in September 2000, the Arizona Supreme Court issued a decision affirming the lower courts criteria for resolving groundwater claims. Litigation on both of these issues has continued in the trial court. In December 2005, APS and other parties filed a petition with the Arizona Supreme Court requesting interlocutory review of a September 2005 trial court order regarding procedures for determining whether groundwater pumping is affecting surface water rights. The Court denied the petition in May 2007, and the trial court is now proceeding with implementation of its 2005 order. No trial date concerning APSs water rights claims has been set in this matter. Little Colorado River Adjudication. APS has also filed claims to water in the Little Colorado River Watershed in Arizona in an action pending in the Apache County, Arizona, Superior Court, which was originally filed on September 5, 1985. APSs groundwater resource utilized at Cholla is within the geographic area subject to the adjudication and, therefore, is potentially at issue in the case. APSs claims dispute the courts jurisdiction over its groundwater rights. Alternatively, APS seeks confirmation of such rights. Other claims have been identified as ready for litigation in motions filed with the court. No trial date concerning APSs water rights claims has been set in this matter. A number of parties, including APS, the Navajo Nation, the Hopi Tribe, and other claimants in the Little Colorado River Adjudication have been engaged in settlement negotiations to resolve competing water claims. On June 3, 2011, counsel for all the parties to the settlement discussions, including APS, signed, on behalf of their respective clients, a document expressing their agreement to recommend that the settlement be approved by their respective clients. Negotiations among the parties continue. If ultimately approved by the parties, the United States Congress, and the Arizona legislature, APS believes this settlement would be beneficial in protecting APSs interest through its resolution of any and all claims that the Navajo Nation and the Hopi Tribe may have to the Little Colorado River system and source in Arizona. Although the above matters remain subject to further evaluation, APS does not expect that the described litigation or settlement will have a material adverse impact on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 23 Table of Contents BUSINESS OF OTHER SUBSIDIARIES The operations of our other first tier subsidiaries (described below) are not expected to contribute in any material way to our future financial performance nor will they require any material amounts of capital over the next three years. We continue to focus on our core utility business and streamlining the Company. In August 2011, we sold our competitive energy services subsidiary, APSES, for an after tax gain of $10 million. El Dorado El Dorado owns minority interests in several energy related investments and Arizona community based ventures. El Dorados short term goal is to prudently realize the value of its existing investments. As of December 31, 2011, El Dorado had total assets of $20 million. SunCor SunCor was a developer of residential, commercial and industrial real estate projects in Arizona, Idaho, New Mexico and Utah. Due to the continuing distressed conditions in the real estate markets, in 2009 SunCor undertook a program to dispose of its homebuilding operations, master planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order to eliminate its outstanding debt. As of December 31, 2011, SunCor had no existing bank debt and had total assets remaining on its books of $9 million, consisting of $7 million of intercompany receivables and $2 million of other assets. On February 24, 2012, SunCor filed for protection under the United States Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Arizona to complete an orderly liquidation of its business. We do not expect SunCors bankruptcy to have a material impact on Pinnacle Wests financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Financial Summary 2011 2010 2009 (dollars in millions) Revenues (a) $ 2 $ 102 $ 158 Net loss attributable to common shareholders (b) $ (2 ) $ (9 ) $ (279 ) Total assets at December 31 $ 9 $ 16 $ 166 (a) All reported as discontinued operations on Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Statements of Income. (See Note 21.) (b) The 2009 amount includes a $266 million (pre tax) real estate impairment charge. OTHER INFORMATION Pinnacle West, APS and Pinnacle Wests other first tier subsidiaries are all incorporated in the State of Arizona. Additional information for each of these companies is provided below: 24 Table of Contents Principal Executive Office Address Year of Incorporation Approximate Number of Employees at December 31, 2011 Pinnacle West 400 North Fifth Street Phoenix, AZ 85004 1985 80 APS 400 North Fifth Street P.O. Box 53999 Phoenix, AZ 85072 3999 1920 6,580 SunCor 80 East Rio Salado Parkway Suite 410 Tempe, AZ 85281 1965 3 El Dorado 400 North Fifth Street Phoenix, AZ 85004 1983 Total 6,663 The APS number includes employees at jointly owned generating facilities (approximately 3,050 employees) for which APS serves as the generating facility manager. Approximately 1,930 APS employees are union employees. APS entered into a new three year collective bargaining agreement with union employees in the fossil generation, energy delivery and customer service business areas that expires in April 2014. The agreement with union employees serving as Palo Verde security officers expires in 2013. WHERE TO FIND MORE INFORMATION We use our website www.pinnaclewest.com as a channel of distribution for material Company information. The following filings are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): Annual Reports on Form 10 K, definitive proxy statements for our annual shareholder meetings, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K and all amendments to those reports. Our board and committee charters, Code of Ethics for Financial Executives, Ethics Policy and Standards of Business Practices and other corporate governance information is also available on the Pinnacle West website. Pinnacle West will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics for Financial Executives and Ethics Policy and Standards of Business Practices, and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange, on its website. The information on Pinnacle Wests website is not incorporated by reference into this report. You can request a copy of these documents, excluding exhibits, by contacting Pinnacle West at the following address: Pinnacle West Capital Corporation, Office of the Secretary, Station 9068, P.O. Box 53999, Phoenix, Arizona 85072 3999 (telephone 602 250 3252). 25 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results. Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to Pinnacle West and its subsidiaries, including APS. REGULATORY RISKS Our financial condition depends upon APSs ability to recover costs in a timely manner from customers through regulated rates and otherwise execute its business strategy. APS is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence its business, liquidity, results of operations and its ability to fully recover costs from utility customers in a timely manner. The ACC regulates APSs retail electric rates and the FERC regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services. The profitability of APS is affected by the rates it may charge and the timeliness of recovering costs incurred through its rates. Consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of any APS rate proceedings and ancillary matters which may come before the ACC and the FERC. Arizona, like certain other states, has a statute that allows the ACC to reopen prior decisions and modify final orders under certain circumstances. The ACC must also approve APSs issuance of securities and any transfer of APS property used to provide retail electric service, and must approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, APS and our respective affiliates. Decisions made by the ACC or the FERC could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. APSs ability to conduct its business operations and avoid fines and penalties depends upon compliance with federal, state or local statutes, regulations and ACC requirements, and obtaining and maintaining certain regulatory permits, approvals and certificates. APS must comply in good faith with all applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, and orders of agencies that regulate APSs business, including the FERC, the NRC, the EPA, the ACC and state and local governmental agencies. These agencies regulate many aspects of APSs utility operations, including safety and performance, emissions, siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that APS can charge retail and wholesale customers. Failure to comply can subject APS to, among other things, fines and penalties. For example, under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the FERC can impose penalties (up to one million dollars per day per violation) for failure to comply with mandatory electric reliability standards. In addition to penalties, APS may be unable to recover certain costs if, for example, it fails to implement any of its annual ACC approved renewable implementation plans. APS is also required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies. APS believes the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that APSs business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. However, changes in regulations or the imposition of new or revised laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We are also unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from pending or future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. 26 Table of Contents The operation of APSs nuclear power plant exposes it to substantial regulatory oversight and potentially significant liabilities and capital expenditures. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. Events at nuclear facilities of other operators or impacting the industry generally may lead the NRC to impose additional requirements and regulations on existing and new facilities. As a result of the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami that caused significant damage to the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant in Japan, various industry organizations are working to analyze information from the Japan incident and develop action plans for U.S. nuclear power plants. Additionally, the NRC is performing its own independent review of the events at Fukushima Daiichi, including a review of the agencys processes and regulations in order to determine whether the agency should promulgate additional regulations and possibly make more fundamental changes to the NRCs system of regulation. We cannot predict when or if the NRC will take formal action as a result of its review. The financial and or operational impacts on Palo Verde and APS may be significant. In the event of noncompliance with its requirements, the NRC has the authority to impose monetary civil penalties or a progressively increased inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut down of a unit, or both, depending upon the NRCs assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. The increased costs resulting from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny and implementation of plans to achieve compliance with NRC requirements may adversely affect APSs financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. APS is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, and changes in, or liabilities under, existing or new laws or regulations may increase APSs cost of operations or impact its business plans. APS is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom ash, fly ash, and air pollution control wastes. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. These laws and regulations generally require APS to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals. If there is a delay or failure to obtain any required environmental regulatory approval, or if APS fails to obtain, maintain, or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to additional expenses. In addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in civil liability or criminal penalties. Both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. APS cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. Environmental Clean Up. APS has been named as a PRP for a Superfund site in Phoenix, Arizona and it could be named a PRP in the future for other environmental clean up at sites identified by a regulatory body. APS cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean up costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. 27 Table of Contents Regional Haze. APS is currently awaiting a final rulemaking from the EPA that could impose new requirements on Four Corners and the Navajo Plant. APS is also awaiting the EPAs issuance of a FIP or partial FIP that could impose new requirements on Cholla. The EPA and ADEQ will require these plants to install pollution control equipment that constitutes the best available retrofit technology to lessen the impacts of emissions on visibility surrounding the plants. Depending upon the agencies final determinations of what constitutes BART for these plants, the financial impact of installing and operating the required pollution control equipment could jeopardize the economic viability of the plants or the ability of individual participants to continue their participation in these plants, resulting in plant closures and asset impairments. Coal Ash. The EPA released proposed regulations governing the disposal of CCRs, which are generated as a result of burning coal and consist of, among other things, fly ash and bottom ash. The EPA proposed regulating CCRs as either non hazardous or hazardous waste. APS currently disposes of CCRs in ash ponds and dry storage areas at Four Corners and Cholla, and also sells a portion of its fly ash for beneficial reuse as a constituent in concrete products. If the EPA regulates CCRs as a hazardous solid waste or phases out APSs ability to dispose of CCRs through the use of ash ponds, APS could incur significant costs for CCR disposal and may be unable to continue its sale of fly ash for beneficial reuse. New Source Review. The EPA has taken the position that many projects electric utilities have performed are major modifications that trigger New Source Review requirements under the Clean Air Act. The utilities generally have taken the position that these projects are routine maintenance and did not result in emissions increases, and thus are not subject to New Source Review. In 2009, APS received and responded to a request from the EPA regarding projects and operations of Four Corners. An environmental organization filed suit against the Four Corners participants for alleged violations of New Source Review and the NSPS programs of the Clean Air Act. If the EPA seeks to impose New Source Review requirements at Four Corners or any other APS plant, or if the citizens group prevails in its lawsuit, significant capital investments could be required to install new pollution control technologies. The EPA could also seek civil penalties. APS cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to it. Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by APS are not fully recoverable from APSs customers, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. APS faces physical and operational risks related to climate change, and potential financial risks resulting from climate change litigation and legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Concern over climate change, deemed by many to be induced by rising levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit CO2, which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, lawsuits have been filed against companies that emit greenhouse gases, including a lawsuit filed by the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina, Alaska against us and several other utilities seeking damages related to climate change. Financial Risks Potential Legislation and Regulation. It is possible that some form of legislation or EPA action to regulate domestic greenhouse gas emissions may occur in the future at the 28 Table of Contents federal level. If the United States Congress, or individual states or groups of states in which APS operates, ultimately pass legislation, or if the EPA promulgates additional regulations regulating the emissions of greenhouse gases, any resulting limitations on CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions could result in the creation of substantial additional capital expenditures and operating costs in the form of taxes, emissions allowances, or required equipment upgrades and could have a material adverse impact on all fossil fuel fired generation facilities (particularly coal fired facilities, which constitute approximately 28% of APSs generation capacity). At the state level, the California legislature enacted legislation to address greenhouse gas emissions and the California Air Resources Board approved regulations that will establish a cap and trade program for greenhouse gas. This legislation, regulation and other state specific initiatives may affect APSs business, including sales into the impacted states or the ability of its out of state power plant participants to continue their participation in certain coal fired power plants, including Four Corners following 2016. Physical and Operational Risks. Weather extremes such as drought and high temperature variations are common occurrences in the Southwests desert area, and these are risks that APS considers in the normal course of business in the engineering and construction of its electric system. Large increases in ambient temperatures could require evaluation of certain materials used within its system and represent a greater challenge. Deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on APSs business and its results of operations. In 1999, the ACC approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in Arizona. Retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on APS due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. Although some very limited retail competition existed in APSs service area in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to APSs customers. As a result, APS cannot predict if, when, and the extent to which, additional competitors may re enter APSs service territory. In 2010, the ACC issued a decision holding that solar vendors that install and operate solar facilities for non profit schools and governments pursuant to a specific type of contract that calculates payments based on the energy produced are not public service corporations under the Arizona Constitution, and are therefore not regulated by the ACC. A second matter is pending with the ACC to determine whether that ruling should extend to solar providers who serve a broader customer base under the same business model. The use of such products by customers within our territory would result in some level of competition. APS cannot predict whether the ACC will deem these vendors public service corporations subject to ACC regulation and when, and the extent to which, additional service providers will enter APSs service territory, increasing the level of competition in the market. OPERATIONAL RISKS APSs results of operations can be adversely affected by various factors impacting demand for electricity. Weather Conditions. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities. Electric power demand is generally a seasonal business. In 29 Table of Contents Arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. As a result, APSs overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, APS has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. As a result, unusually mild weather could diminish APSs financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and an increased threat of forest fires. Forest fires could threaten APSs communities and electric transmission lines. Any damage caused as a result of forest fires could negatively impact APSs financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Effects of Energy Conservation Measures and Distributed Energy. The ACC has enacted rules regarding energy efficiency that mandate a 22% annual energy savings requirement by 2020. This will likely increase participation by APS customers in energy efficiency and conservation programs and other demand side management efforts, which in turn will impact the demand for electricity. The rules also include a requirement for the ACC to review and address financial disincentives, recovery of fixed costs and the recovery of net lost income/revenue that would result from lower sales due to increased energy efficiency requirements. To that end, the proposed Settlement Agreement in APSs current retail rate case includes a mechanism to address these matters. The 2009 retail rate case settlement agreement also established energy efficiency goals for APS that began in 2010 that extend through 2012, subjecting APS to energy efficiency requirements slightly greater for the first two of those years than required under the rules described above. APS must also meet certain distributed energy requirements. A portion of APSs total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed energy resources (generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers properties). The distributed energy requirement was 25% of the overall RES requirement of 3% in 2011 and increased to 30% of the applicable RES requirement for 2012 and subsequent years. Customer participation in distributed energy programs would result in lower demand, since customers would be meeting some or all of their own energy needs. Reduced demand due to these energy efficiency and distributed energy requirements, unless offset through ratemaking mechanisms, such as those proposed in the Settlement Agreement, could have a material adverse impact on APSs financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The operation of power generation facilities and transmission systems involves risks that could result in reduced output or unscheduled outages, which could materially affect APSs results of operations. The operation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. Unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other complications, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of APSs business. Because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the larger transmission power grid, and the operation or failure of our facilities could adversely affect the operations of others. If APSs facilities operate below expectations, especially during its peak seasons, it may lose revenue or incur additional expenses, including increased purchased power expenses. 30 Table of Contents The inability to successfully develop or acquire generation resources to meet new or evolving standards and regulations could adversely impact our business. Potential changes in regulatory standards, impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, and the need to obtain certain regulatory approvals create uncertainty surrounding our generation portfolio. For example, APSs acquisition of SCEs interest in Four Corners is contingent upon regulatory approval. If not approved, we could face increased costs for replacement power or the need to acquire or develop alternate resources. In addition, APS is required by the ACC to meet certain energy resource portfolio requirements and the RES. The development of any renewable generation facilities resulting from the RES is subject to many other risks, including risks related to financing, siting, permitting, technology, the construction of sufficient transmission capacity to support these facilities and stresses to generation and transmission resources from intermittent generation characteristics of renewable resources. APSs inability to adequately develop or acquire the necessary generation resources to meet the required standards could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. The lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on APSs business and results of operations. Assured supplies of water are important for APSs generating plants. Water in the southwestern United States is limited and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to access and use such limited supply of water. Both groundwater and surface water in areas important to APSs generating plants have been and are the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings. In addition, the region in which APSs power plants are located is prone to drought conditions, which could potentially affect the plants water supplies. APSs inability to access sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. The ownership and operation of power generation and transmission facilities on Indian lands could result in uncertainty related to continued leases, easements and rights of way, which could have a significant impact on our business. Certain APS power plants, including Four Corners, and portions of the transmission lines that carry power from these plants are located on Indian lands pursuant to leases, easements or other rights of way that are effective for specified periods. APS is currently unable to predict the final outcome of pending and future approvals by applicable governing bodies with respect to renewals of these leases, easements and rights of way. There are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack. APS has an ownership interest in and operates, on behalf of a group of participants, Palo Verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the United States. Palo Verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to obtain adequate supplies of nuclear fuel; the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. APS maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage 31 Table of Contents to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. In addition, APS may be required under federal law to pay up to $118 million (but not more than $18 million per year) of liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident occurring not only at Palo Verde, but at any other nuclear power plant in the United States. Although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at Palo Verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit and to promulgate new regulations that could require significant capital expenditures and or increase operating costs. The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. APSs operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices. APS is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas and coal to the extent that unhedged positions exist. We have established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange traded futures and options and over the counter forwards, options, and swaps. As part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity. To the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time and financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank Act), which was signed into law in July 2010, contains measures aimed at increasing the transparency and stability of the over the counter, or OTC, derivative markets and preventing excessive speculation. The Dodd Frank Act could restrict, among other things, trading positions in the energy futures markets, require different collateral or settlement positions, or increase regulatory reporting over derivative positions. Based on the provisions included in the Dodd Frank Act and the implementation of regulations, these changes could, among other things, impact our ability to hedge commodity price and interest rate risk or increase the costs associated with our hedging programs. We are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. We use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties. Despite the fact that the majority of APSs trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, which could result in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. Changes in technology could create challenges for APSs existing business. Research and development activities are ongoing to assess alternative technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption, including clean coal and coal gasification, renewable technologies including photovoltaic (solar) cells, customer sited generation (solar) and efficiency technologies, and improvements in traditional technologies and equipment, such as more efficient gas turbines. Advances in these, or other technologies could reduce the cost of power production, making APSs existing generating facilities less economical. In addition, advances in technology and equipment/appliance efficiency could reduce the demand for power supply, which could adversely affect APSs business. 32 Table of Contents APS is pursuing and implementing smart grid technologies, including advanced transmission and distribution system technologies, digital meters enabling two way communications between the utility and its customers, and electric usage monitoring devices for customers homes and businesses. Many of the products and processes resulting from these and other alternative technologies have not yet been widely used or tested, and their use on large scale systems is not as advanced and established as APSs existing technologies and equipment. Uncertainties and unknowns related to these and other advancements in technology and equipment could adversely affect APSs business if national standards develop that do not embrace the current technologies or if the technologies and equipment fail to perform as expected. In addition, widespread installation and acceptance of these devices could enable the entry of new market participants, such as technology companies, into the interface between APS and its customers. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Like most companies in the electric utility industry, our workforce is aging and a number of our employees will become eligible to retire within the next few years. Although we have undertaken efforts to recruit and train new employees, we may not be successful. We are subject to other employee workforce factors, such as the availability of qualified personnel, the need to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with union employees and potential work stoppages. Exposure to these or other employee workforce factors could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to information security risks and risks of unauthorized access to our systems. In the regular course of our business we handle a range of sensitive security, customer and business systems information. We are subject to laws and rules issued by different agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining the confidentiality of this information. A security breach of our information systems such as theft or the inappropriate release of certain types of information, including confidential customer, employee, financial or system operating information, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Despite implementation of security measures, our technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access. Our generation, transmission and distribution facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems and physical assets could be targets of such unauthorized access. Failures or breaches of our systems could impact the reliability of our generation, transmission and distribution systems and also subject us to financial harm. If our technology systems were to fail or be breached and if we are unable to recover in a timely way, we may not be able to fulfill critical business functions and sensitive confidential data could be compromised, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The implementation of security measures and cost of insurance addressing such activities could increase costs and have a material adverse impact on our financial results. These types of events could also require significant management attention and resources, and could adversely affect Pinnacle Wests and APSs reputation with customers and the public. 33 Table of Contents FINANCIAL RISKS Financial market disruptions or new financial rules or regulations may increase our financing costs or limit our access to the credit markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our financial strategy. We rely on access to credit markets as a significant source of liquidity and the capital markets for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flow from our operations. We believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets. However, certain market disruptions or rules or regulations may increase our cost of borrowing generally, and or otherwise adversely affect our ability to access the credit markets. In addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be satisfied for a variety of reasons, including periods of financial distress or liquidity issues affecting our lenders, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of our liquidity sources. Changes in economic conditions, monetary policy or other factors could result in higher interest rates, which would increase our interest expense on our debt and reduce funds available to us for our current plans. Additionally, an increase in our leverage could adversely affect us by: causing a downgrade of our credit ratings; increasing the cost of future debt financing and refinancing; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and requiring us to dedicate an increased portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes. A downgrade of our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our current ratings are set forth in Liquidity and Capital Resources Credit Ratings in Item 7. We cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Any downgrade or withdrawal could adversely affect the market price of Pinnacle Wests and APSs securities, limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. We would be required to pay a higher interest rate for future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. In addition, borrowing costs under our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings. A downgrade would also require us to provide substantial additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties. If our short term ratings were to be lowered, it could severely limit access to the commercial paper market. We note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 34 Table of Contents Investment performance, changing interest rates and other economic factors could decrease the value of our benefit plan assets and nuclear decommissioning trust funds and increase the valuation of our related obligations, resulting in significant additional funding requirements. Any inability to fully recover these costs in our utility rates would negatively impact our financial condition. We have significant pension plan and other postretirement benefits plan obligations to our employees and retirees and legal obligations to fund nuclear decommissioning trusts for Palo Verde. We hold and invest substantial assets in these trusts that are designed to provide funds to pay for certain of these obligations as they arise. Declines in market values or poor investment results may adversely affect the values of the fixed income and equity securities held in these trusts and increase our funding requirements. Additionally, the valuation of liabilities related to our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are impacted by a discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. Declining interest rates decrease the discount rate, increase the valuation of the plan liabilities and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to other comprehensive income. Changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy and changes in other actuarial assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The minimum contributions required under these plans have increased, and could continue to do so, resulting in significant cash funding obligations that could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We recover most of the pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs and all of the nuclear decommissioning costs in our regulated rates. Any inability to fully recover these costs in a timely manner would have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may be required to adopt IFRS. The ultimate adoption of such standards could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. IFRS is a comprehensive series of accounting standards published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) that is being considered by the SEC to replace accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) for use in preparation of financial statements. If the SEC requires mandatory adoption of IFRS, we may lose our ability to use regulatory accounting treatment, and would follow IFRS rather than GAAP for the preparation of our financial statements beginning no earlier than 2015. In the meantime, the FASB and the IASB are working on several accounting standards jointly to converge certain accounting differences. The implementation and adoption of these new standards and the inability to use regulatory accounting could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our cash flow largely depends on the performance of APS. We conduct our operations primarily through our subsidiary, APS. Essentially all of our consolidated assets are held by APS. Accordingly, our cash flow and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of APS and its distributions to us. APS is a separate and distinct legal entity and has no obligation to make distributions to us. APSs debt agreements may restrict its ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. In addition, an ACC financing order requires APS to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow APS to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. The common equity ratio, as defined in the ACC order, is total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long term debt, including current maturities of long term debt. 35 Table of Contents Pinnacle Wests ability to meet its debt service obligations could be adversely affected because its debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of its subsidiaries. Because Pinnacle West is structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to our debt securities. The assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt and other obligations. Our ability to have the benefit of their cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; developments generally affecting industries in which we operate, particularly the energy distribution and energy generation industries; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments; our dividend policy; future sales by the Company of equity or equity linked securities; and general domestic and international economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of Arizona law make it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover attempts. These provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control premium, include the following: restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of business combination transactions with an interested shareholder (generally, any person who owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting power or any of our affiliates or associates) or any affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are met; anti greenmail provisions of Arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from purchasing shares of our voting stock from beneficial owners of more than 5% of our outstanding shares unless specified conditions are satisfied; 36 Table of Contents the ability of the Board of Directors to increase the size of the Board and fill vacancies on the Board, whether resulting from such increase, or from death, resignation, disqualification or otherwise; and the ability of our Board of Directors to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred stock, the other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without shareholder approval. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they could enable the Board to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. SunCors continuing wind down of its real estate business may give rise to various claims. Since 2009, SunCor has been engaged in a program to dispose of its homebuilding operations, master planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order to eliminate its outstanding debt. SunCor is focusing on concluding an orderly wind down of its business. This effort includes addressing contingent liabilities, such as warranty and construction claims that may be brought by property owners and potential funding obligations to local taxing districts that financed infrastructure at certain of its real estate developments. Pinnacle West has not guaranteed any of SunCors obligations. SunCors remaining business operations, and its ability to generate cash from operations, are minimal. In February 2012, SunCor filed for protection under the United States Bankruptcy Code to complete an orderly liquidation of its business. Pinnacle West could be exposed to the uncertainties and complexities inherent for parent companies in such proceedings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Neither Pinnacle West nor APS has received written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the SEC staff that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2011 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Generation Facilities APSs portfolio of owned and leased generating facilities is provided in the table below: Name No. of Units % Owned (a) Principal Fuels Used Primary Dispatch Type Owned Capacity (MW) Nuclear: Palo Verde (b) 3 29.1% Uranium Base Load 1,146 Total Nuclear 1,146 Steam: Four Corners 1, 2, 3 3 Coal Base Load 560 Four Corners 4, 5 (c) 2 15% Coal Base Load 231 Cholla 3 Coal Base Load 647 Navajo (d) 3 14% Coal Base Load 315 Ocotillo 2 Gas Peaking 220 Saguaro 2 Gas/Oil Peaking 210 Total Steam 2,183 Combined Cycle: Redhawk 2 Gas Load Following 984 West Phoenix 5 Gas Load Following 887 Total Combined Cycle 1,871 Combustion Turbine: Ocotillo 2 Gas Peaking 110 Saguaro 1, 2 2 Gas/Oil Peaking 110 Saguaro 3 1 Gas Peaking 79 Douglas 1 Oil Peaking 16 Sundance 10 Gas Peaking 420 West Phoenix 2 Gas Peaking 110 Yucca 1, 2, 3 3 Gas/Oil Peaking 93 Yucca 4 1 Oil Peaking 54 Yucca 5, 6 2 Gas Peaking 96 Total Combustion Turbine 1,088 Solar: Cotton Center 1 Solar As Available 17 Hyder 1 Solar As Available 16 Paloma 1 Solar As Available 17 Multiple facilities Solar As Available 5 Total Solar 55 Total Capacity 6,343 (a) 100% unless otherwise noted. (b) See Business of Arizona Public Service Company Energy Sources and Resource Planning Generation Facilities Nuclear in Item 1 for details regarding leased interests in Palo Verde. The other participants are Salt River Project (17.49%), SCE (15.8%), El Paso Electric Company (15.8%), Public Service Company of New Mexico (10.2%), 38 Table of Contents Southern California Public Power Authority (5.91%), and Los Angeles Department of Water & Power (5.7%). The plant is operated by APS. (c) The other participants are Salt River Project (10%), Public Service Company of New Mexico (13%), SCE (48%), Tucson Electric Power Company (7%) and El Paso Electric Company (7%). The plant is operated by APS. As discussed under Business of Arizona Public Service Company Energy Sources and Resource Planning Generation Facilities Coal Fueled Generating Facilities Four Corners in Item 1, APS and SCE have entered into an agreement by which APS would acquire SCEs interest in Units 4 and 5, after which APS would close Units 1, 2 and 3. (d) The other participants are Salt River Project (21.7%), Nevada Power Company (11.3%), the United States Government (24.3%), Tucson Electric Power Company (7.5%) and Los Angeles Department of Water & Power (21.2%). The plant is operated by Salt River Project. See Business of Arizona Public Service Company Environmental Matters in Item 1 with respect to matters having a possible impact on the operation of certain of APSs generating facilities. See Business of Arizona Public Service Company in Item 1 for a map detailing the location of APSs major power plants and principal transmission lines. Transmission and Distribution Facilities Current Facilities. APSs transmission facilities consist of approximately 5,866 pole miles of overhead lines and approximately 49 miles of underground lines, 5,643 miles of which are located in Arizona. APSs distribution facilities consist of approximately 11,376 miles of overhead lines and approximately 17,561 miles of underground primary cable, all of which are located in Arizona. APS shares ownership of some of its transmission facilities with other companies. The following table shows APSs jointly owned interests in those transmission facilities recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011: Percent Owned (Weighted Average) North Valley System 69.3 % Palo Verde Estrella 500kV System 50.0 % Round Valley System 50.0 % ANPP 500kV System 33.0 % Navajo Southern System 25.9 % Four Corners Switchyards 39.6 % Palo Verde Yuma 500kV System 44.1 % Phoenix Mead System 17.5 % Expansion. Each year APS prepares and files with the ACC a ten year transmission plan. In APSs 2012 plan, APS projects it will invest approximately $550 million in new transmission projects (115 kV and above) over the next ten years, which includes 269 miles of new lines. This investment will increase the import capability into metropolitan Phoenix and the Yuma area. One significant project currently under development is a new 500kV path that will span from the Palo Verde Hub around the western and northern edges of the Phoenix metropolitan area and terminate at a bulk substation in the northeast part of Phoenix. The project consists of four phases. The first phase, Morgan to Pinnacle Peak 500kV, is currently in service. The second phase, Delaney to Palo Verde 39 Table of Contents 500kV, is under construction. The third and fourth phases, Delaney to Sun Valley 500kV and Morgan to Sun Valley 500kV, have been permitted and are in various stages of final design and development. In total, the projects consist of over 100 miles of new 500kV lines, with many of those miles constructed as capable of stringing a 230kV line as a second circuit. APS continues to work with regulators to identify transmission projects necessary to support renewable energy facilities. Two such projects, which are included in APSs 2012 transmission plan, are the Delaney to Palo Verde line and the North Gila to Palo Verde line, both of which are intended to support the transmission of renewable energy to Phoenix and California. Plant and Transmission Line Leases and Easements on Indian Lands The Navajo Plant and Four Corners are located on land held under leases from the Navajo Nation and also under easements from the federal government. The easement and lease for the Navajo Plant expire in 2019 and the easement and lease for Four Corners expire in 2016. On March 7, 2011, the Navajo Nation Council signed a resolution approving a 25 year extension to the existing Four Corners lease term and providing Navajo Nation consent to renewal of the related easements. APS is now preparing to file applications for renewal of these easements with the DOI. Before it may approve the Four Corners lease extension and issue the renewed easements, the United States must complete an analysis under the federal National Environmental Policy Act, the ESA and related statutes. Certain portions of the transmission lines that carry power from several of our power plants are located on Indian lands pursuant to easements or other rights of way that are effective for specified periods. Some of these rights of way have expired and our renewal applications have not yet been acted upon by the appropriate Indian tribes. Other rights expire at various times in the future and renewal action by the applicable tribe will be required at that time. The majority of our transmission lines residing on Indian lands are on the Navajo Nation. In March 2011, the Navajo Nation provided its consent to renew the easements for the transmission lines specified in the lease extension. However, some of our easements are not covered by the leases, or are granted by other Indian tribes. In recent negotiations with other utilities or companies for renewal of similar rights of way, certain of the affected Indian tribes have required payments substantially in excess of amounts that we have paid in the past for such rights of way or that are typical for similar permits across non Indian lands; however, we are unaware of the underlying agreements and or specific circumstances surrounding these renewals. The ultimate cost of renewal of the rights of way for our transmission lines not addressed in the lease extension is uncertain. We are monitoring these easement issues and have had extensive discussions with the Navajo Nation regarding the easements. We are currently unable to predict the outcome of this matter. 40 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See Business of Arizona Public Service Company Environmental Matters in Item 1 with regard to pending or threatened litigation and other disputes. See Note 3 for ACC and FERC related matters. See Note 11 for information relating to the FERC proceedings on Pacific Northwest energy market issues and matters related to a September 2011 power outage. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 41 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF PINNACLE WEST Pinnacle Wests executive officers are elected no less often than annually and may be removed by the Board of Directors at any time. The executive officers, their ages at February 24, 2012, current positions and principal occupations for the past five years are as follows: Name Age Position Period Donald E. Brandt 57 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Pinnacle West; Chairman of the Board of APS 2009 Present President of Pinnacle West 2008 Present Chief Executive Officer of APS 2008 Present Chief Operating Officer of Pinnacle West 2008 2009 President of APS 2006 2009 Executive Vice President of Pinnacle West; Chief Financial Officer of APS 2003 2008 Chief Financial Officer of Pinnacle West 2002 2008 Executive Vice President of APS 2003 2006 Donald G. Robinson 58 President and Chief Operating Officer of APS 2009 Present Senior Vice President, Planning and Administration of APS 2007 2009 Vice President, Planning of APS 2003 2007 Denise R. Danner 56 Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Pinnacle West; Chief Accounting Officer of APS 2010 Present Vice President and Controller of APS 2009 Present Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Allied Waste Industries, Inc. 2007 2008 Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Phelps Dodge Corporation 2004 2007 Patrick Dinkel 48 Vice President, Power Marketing, Resource Planning and Acquisition 2011 Present Vice President, Power Marketing and Resource Planning 2010 2011 General Manager, Strategic Planning and Resource Acquisition 2009 2010 Director of Resource Acquisitions and Renewables 2007 2009 Director of Planning and Resource Acquisitions 2004 2007 42 Table of Contents Randall K. Edington 58 Executive Vice President and Chief Nuclear Officer of APS 2007 Present Senior Vice President and Chief Nuclear Officer of APS 2007 Site Vice President and Chief Nuclear Officer of Cooper Generating Station with Entergy Corporation 2003 2007 David P. Falck 58 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Pinnacle West and APS 2009 Present Senior Vice President Law of Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. 2007 2009 Partner Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP 1987 2007 Daniel T. Froetscher 50 Vice President, Energy Delivery 2008 Present General Manager of Rural Arizona Delivery 2007 2008 General Manager North Arizona Operations 2004 2007 Jeffrey B. Guldner 46 Vice President, Rates & Regulation 2007 Present Director of Federal Regulation and Compliance 2006 2007 James R. Hatfield 54 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Pinnacle West and APS 2008 Present Treasurer of Pinnacle West and APS 2009 2010 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of OGE Energy Corp. 1999 2008 John S. Hatfield 46 Vice President, Communications of APS 2010 Present Director, Corporate Communications of Southern California Edison 2004 2010 Tammy D. McLeod 50 Vice President and Chief Customer Officer 2007 Present General Manager Customer Service/Southern Arizona Operations 2004 2007 Lee R. Nickloy 45 Vice President and Treasurer of Pinnacle West and APS 2010 Present Assistant Treasurer and Director Corporate Finance of Ameren Corporation 2000 2010 Mark A. Schiavoni 56 Senior Vice President, Fossil Operations of APS 2009 Present Senior Vice President of Exelon Generation and President of Exelon Power 2004 2009 43 Table of Contents Lori S. Sundberg 48 Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Ethics of APS 2011 Present Vice President, Human Resources and Ethics of APS 2010 2011 Vice President, Human Resources of APS 2007 2010 Vice President, Employee Relations, Safety, Compliance & Embrace of American Express Company 2007 Vice President, HR Relationship Leader, Global Corporate Travel Division of American Express Company 2003 2007 44 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Pinnacle Wests common stock is publicly held and is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. At the close of business on February 15, 2012, Pinnacle Wests common stock was held of record by approximately 25,595 shareholders. QUARTERLY STOCK PRICES AND DIVIDENDS PAID PER SHARE STOCK SYMBOL: PNW Dividends 2011 High Low Close Per Share 1st Quarter $ 44.07 $ 40.70 $ 42.79 $ 0.525 2nd Quarter 45.64 41.93 44.58 0.525 3rd Quarter 45.15 37.28 42.94 0.525 4th Quarter 48.87 40.87 48.18 0.525 Dividends 2010 High Low Close Per Share 1st Quarter $ 38.37 $ 34.62 $ 37.73 $ 0.525 2nd Quarter 39.10 32.31 36.36 0.525 3rd Quarter 41.75 35.71 41.27 0.525 4th Quarter 42.68 39.97 41.45 0.525 APSs common stock is wholly owned by Pinnacle West and is not listed for trading on any stock exchange. As a result, there is no established public trading market for APSs common stock. The chart below sets forth the dividends paid on APSs common stock for each of the four quarters for 2011 and 2010. Common Stock Dividends (Dollars in Thousands) Quarter 2011 2010 1st Quarter $ 57,100 $ 42,500 2nd Quarter 57,200 56,900 3rd Quarter 57,300 56,900 4th Quarter 57,300 26,100 The sole holder of APSs common stock, Pinnacle West, is entitled to dividends when and as declared out of legally available funds. As of December 31, 2011, APS did not have any outstanding preferred stock. 45 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table contains information about our purchases of our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2011. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs October 1 October 31, 2011 November 1 November 30, 2011 December 1 December 31, 2011 2,433 $ 47.80 Total 2,433 $ 47.80 (1) Represents shares of common stock withheld by Pinnacle West to satisfy tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock and performance shares. 46 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) OPERATING RESULTS Operating revenues: Regulated electricity $ 3,237,194 $ 3,180,678 $ 3,149,187 $ 3,127,383 $ 2,918,163 Marketing and trading 66,897 138,247 Other revenues 4,185 8,521 4,469 2,253 999 Total operating revenues $ 3,241,379 $ 3,189,199 $ 3,153,656 $ 3,196,533 $ 3,057,409 Income from continuing operations $ 355,634 $ 344,851 $ 256,048 $ 277,366 $ 302,360 Income (loss) from discontinued operations net of income taxes (a) 11,306 25,358 (183,284 ) (17,746 ) 20,631 Net income 366,940 370,209 72,764 259,620 322,991 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 27,467 20,156 4,434 17,495 15,848 Net income attributable to common shareholders $ 339,473 $ 350,053 $ 68,330 $ 242,125 $ 307,143 COMMON STOCK DATA Book value per share year end $ 34.98 $ 33.86 $ 32.69 $ 34.16 $ 35.15 Earnings per weighted average common share outstanding: Continuing operations attributable to common shareholders basic $ 3.01 $ 3.05 $ 2.34 $ 2.58 $ 2.86 Net income attributable to common shareholders basic $ 3.11 $ 3.28 $ 0.68 $ 2.40 $ 3.06 Continuing operations attributable to common shareholders diluted $ 2.99 $ 3.03 $ 2.34 $ 2.57 $ 2.84 Net income attributable to common shareholders diluted $ 3.09 $ 3.27 $ 0.67 $ 2.40 $ 3.05 Dividends declared per share $ 2.10 $ 2.10 $ 2.10 $ 2.10 $ 2.10 Weighted average common shares outstanding basic 109,052,840 106,573,348 101,160,659 100,690,838 100,255,807 Weighted average common shares outstanding diluted 109,864,243 107,137,785 101,263,795 100,964,920 100,834,871 BALANCE SHEET DATA Total assets $ 13,111,018 $ 12,392,998 $ 12,035,253 $ 11,780,876 $ 11,324,278 Liabilities and equity: Current liabilities $ 1,342,705 $ 1,449,704 $ 1,279,288 $ 1,582,661 $ 1,408,429 Long term debt less current maturities 3,019,054 3,045,794 3,496,524 3,183,386 3,300,663 Deferred credits and other 4,818,673 4,122,274 3,831,437 3,443,860 2,955,119 Total liabilities 9,180,432 8,617,772 8,607,249 8,209,907 7,664,211 Total equity 3,930,586 3,775,226 3,428,004 3,570,969 3,660,067 Total liabilities and equity $ 13,111,018 $ 12,392,998 $ 12,035,253 $ 11,780,876 $ 11,324,278 (a) Amounts primarily related to SunCors real estate impairment charges (see Note 22) and APSES discontinued operations (see Note 21). 47 Table of Contents SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands) OPERATING RESULTS Electric operating revenues $ 3,237,241 $ 3,180,807 $ 3,149,500 $ 3,133,496 $ 2,936,277 Fuel and purchased power costs 1,009,464 1,046,815 1,178,620 1,289,883 1,151,392 Other operating expenses 1,673,394 1,584,955 1,501,081 1,376,257 1,326,934 Operating income 554,383 549,037 469,799 467,356 457,951 Other income 24,974 20,138 13,893 836 20,870 Interest expense net of allowance for borrowed funds 215,584 213,349 213,258 188,353 179,033 Net income 363,773 355,826 270,434 279,839 299,788 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 27,524 20,163 19,209 17,495 15,848 Net income attributable to common shareholder $ 336,249 $ 335,663 $ 251,225 $ 262,344 $ 283,940 BALANCE SHEET DATA Total assets $ 13,032,237 $ 12,271,877 $ 11,730,500 $ 11,124,360 $ 10,476,274 Liabilities and equity: Total equity $ 4,051,406 $ 3,916,037 $ 3,527,679 $ 3,416,751 $ 3,425,328 Long term debt less current maturities 2,828,507 2,948,991 3,180,406 2,850,242 2,876,881 Palo Verde sale leaseback lessor notes less current maturities 65,547 96,803 126,000 151,783 173,538 Total capitalization 6,945,460 6,961,831 6,834,085 6,418,776 6,475,747 Current liabilities 1,322,714 1,234,865 1,070,970 1,344,501 1,112,489 Deferred credits and other 4,764,063 4,075,181 3,825,445 3,361,083 2,888,038 Total liabilities and equity $ 13,032,237 $ 12,271,877 $ 11,730,500 $ 11,124,360 $ 10,476,274 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS INTRODUCTION The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Financial Statements and APSs Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes that appear in Item 8 of this report. For information on the broad factors that may cause our actual future results to differ from those we currently seek or anticipate, see Forward Looking Statements at the front of this report and Risk Factors in Item 1A. OVERVIEW Pinnacle West owns all of the outstanding common stock of APS. APS is a vertically integrated electric utility that provides either retail or wholesale electric service to most of the state of Arizona, with the major exceptions of about one half of the Phoenix metropolitan area, the Tucson metropolitan area and Mohave County in northwestern Arizona. APS accounts for essentially all of our revenues and earnings, and is expected to continue to do so. Areas of Business Focus Operational Performance, Reliability and Recent Developments. Nuclear. In 2011, Palo Verde achieved its best generation year ever, producing over 31 million megawatt hours, with an overall station capacity factor of 90.7%. In 2011, Palo Verde successfully refueled both Unit 1 and Unit 2. In April 2011, the NRC approved APSs application for renewed operating licenses for the Palo Verde units, extending the licenses for Units 1, 2 and 3 to June 2045, April 2046 and November 2047, respectively. APS management is working closely with regulators and others in the nuclear industry to analyze the lessons learned and address any rulemaking or improvements resulting from the March 2011 events impacting the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station in Japan. Coal and Related Environmental Matters. APS operated coal plants, Four Corners and Cholla, achieved net capacity factors of 78% and 82%, respectively, in 2011. APS is focused on the impacts on its coal fleet that may result from increased regulation and potential legislation concerning greenhouse gas emissions. Concern over climate change and other emission related issues could have a significant impact on our capital expenditures and operating costs in the form of taxes, emissions allowances or required equipment upgrades for these plants. APS is closely monitoring its long range capital management plans, understanding that any resulting regulation and legislation could impact the economic viability of certain plants, as well as the willingness or ability of power plant participants to fund any such equipment upgrades. In addition, SCE, a participant in Four Corners, has indicated that certain California legislation may prohibit it from making emission control expenditures at the plant. On November 8, 2010, APS and SCE entered into an asset purchase agreement, providing for the purchase by APS of SCEs 48% interest in each of Units 4 and 5 of Four Corners. The purchase price is $294 million, subject to certain adjustments. Completion of the purchase by APS, which is expected to occur in the second half of 2012, is subject to the receipt of approvals by the ACC, the California Public Utilities Commission (the CPUC) and the FERC. APS and SCE filed applications with their respective commissions seeking requisite authority or approvals to complete the transaction. On February 17, 2012, the CPUC issued a proposed decision approving the sale, with a final decision expected in March. Closing is also conditioned on the execution of a new coal supply 49 Table of Contents contract, expiration of the waiting period under the Hart Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and other typical closing conditions. Hearings at the ACC concluded on September 1, 2011. We expect the administrative law judge to issue a recommended decision in early 2012. APS, on behalf of the Four Corners participants, has negotiated amendments to an existing facility lease with the Navajo Nation which would extend the Four Corners leasehold interest from 2016 to 2041. Execution by the Navajo Nation of the lease amendments is a condition to closing of the purchase by APS of SCEs interests in Four Corners. The execution of these amendments by the Navajo Nation requires the approval of the Navajo Nation Council, which became effective in March 2011. The effectiveness of the amendments also requires the approval of the DOI, as does a related Federal rights of way grant which the Four Corners participants will pursue. A Federal environmental review is underway as part of the DOI review process. APS has announced that, if APSs purchase of SCEs interests in Units 4 and 5 at Four Corners is consummated, it will close Units 1, 2 and 3 at the plant. APS owns 100% of Units 1 3. These events will change the plants overall generating capacity from 2,100 MW to 1,540 MW and APSs entitlement from the plant from 791 MW to 970 MW. When applying for approval to purchase Units 4 and 5, APS also requested from the ACC recovery of any unrecovered costs associated with the closure of Units 1, 2 and 3. The proposed Settlement Agreement in APSs current retail rate case allows for the case to remain open to allow APS to seek a rate adjustment to reflect the Four Corners transaction should the ACC allow APS to pursue the acquisition and should the transaction thereafter close. APS cannot predict whether all of the conditions necessary to consummate the purchase of SCEs interest will be met such that closing can occur, including whether the parties will receive satisfactory regulatory approvals. Transmission and Delivery. In the area of transmission and delivery to its customers, APS had its best reliability year to date and ranked favorably during 2011, with top quartile performance for average annual customer outage time and average annual customer interruptions. APSs 2012 Ten Year Transmission Plan filed with the ACC in January 2012 projects that it will invest approximately $550 million in new transmission projects (115 kV and above) over the next ten years, adding 269 miles of new lines. The first three years of these additions are included in the capital expenditures table presented in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below along with other transmission costs for upgrades and replacements. APS is working closely with regulators to identify and plan for transmission needs resulting from the current focus on renewable energy. APS is also working to establish and expand smart grid technology throughout its service territory designed to provide long term benefits both to APS and its customers. APS is piloting and deploying a variety of technologies that are intended to allow customers to better monitor their energy use and needs, minimize system outage durations and the number of customers that experience outages, and facilitate cost savings to APS through improved reliability and the automation of certain distribution functions, including remote meter reading and remote connects and disconnects. Renewable Energy. The ACC approved the RES in 2006. The renewable energy requirement is 3.5% of retail electric sales in 2012 and increases annually until it reaches 15% in 2025. In the settlement agreement related to the 2008 retail rate case, APS agreed to exceed the RES standards, committing to 1,700 GWh of new renewable resources to be in service by year end 2015 in addition to its 2008 renewable resource commitments. Taken together, APSs commitment is estimated to be 3,400 GWh, or approximately 10% of APSs retail energy sales by year end 2015, which is double the existing RES target of 5% for that year. A component of the RES is focused on stimulating development of 50 Table of Contents distributed energy systems (generally speaking, small scale renewable technologies that are located on customers properties). APS has a diverse portfolio of existing and planned renewable resources totaling 946 MW, including solar, wind, geothermal, biomass and biogas. Of this portfolio, 423 MW are currently in operation and 523 MW are under contract for development or are under construction. Renewable resources in operation include 55 MW of utility scale facilities owned by APS, 232 MW of long term purchased power agreements, and an estimated 136 MW of customer sited, third party owned distributed energy resources. To achieve our RES requirements, as mentioned above, to date APS has entered into contracts for 523 MW of renewable resources that are planned, in development or under construction. APSs strategy to procure these resources includes new facilities to be owned by APS, purchased power contracts for new facilities and ongoing development of distributed energy resources. Through the AZ Sun Program, APS plans to own up to 200 MW of solar photovoltaic power plants across Arizona by investing up to $975 million through 2015. Under this program, APS has executed contracts for the development of 83 MW of new solar generation, representing an investment commitment of approximately $375 million. See Note 3 for additional details of the AZ Sun Program, including the related cost recovery. APS has also entered into long term purchased power agreements for 397 MW from solar, wind and biogas facilities currently planned, in development or under construction, and 93 MW from distributed energy resources. Agreements for the development and completion of future resources are subject to various conditions, including successful siting, permitting and interconnection of the project to the electric grid. On July 1, 2011, APS filed its annual RES implementation plan with the ACC, covering the 2012 2016 timeframe and requesting 2012 RES funding of $129 million to $152 million. On December 14, 2011, the ACC voted to approve APSs 2012 RES Plan and authorized a total 2012 RES budget of $110 million. Within that budget, the ACC authorized APS to, among other items, (i) own an additional 100 MW under the AZ Sun Program, for a total of 200 MW; (ii) recover revenue requirements for the second 100 MW as APS did for the first 100 MW of the AZ Sun Program; (iii) expand APSs School and Government Program by another 6.25 MW of utility owned distributed generation; and (iv) own another 25 MW of renewable generation to be described later and installed in 2014 and 2015. In addition, the ACC ordered an initial up front incentive of $0.75 per watt for residential distributed energy and incentive level step downs throughout 2012 based upon the volume and timing of residential incentive applications. Under the ACCS order, residential incentives could fall to $0.20 or $0.10 per watt by the end of 2012 depending on demand. Demand Side Management. In recent years, Arizona regulators have placed an increased focus on energy efficiency and other demand side management programs to encourage customers to conserve energy, while incentivizing utilities to aid in these efforts that ultimately reduce the demand for energy. In December 2009, the ACC initiated Energy Efficiency rulemaking, with a proposed Energy Efficiency Standard of 22% cumulative annual energy savings by 2020. The 22% figure represents the cumulative reduction in future energy usage through 2020 attributable to energy efficiency initiatives. On July 27, 2010, the proposed Energy Efficiency Standard was adopted by the ACC, approved by the Arizona Attorney General and became effective on January 1, 2011. This ambitious standard will likely impact Arizonas future energy resource needs. On June 1, 2011 APS filed its 2012 Energy Efficiency Implementation Plan with a proposed budget for 2012 of $90 million. APS expects a decision from the ACC prior to March 31, 2012. However, APS cannot predict whether the ACC will approve the plan as filed. 51 Table of Contents Rate Matters. APS needs timely recovery through rates of its capital and operating expenditures to maintain adequate financial health. APSs retail rates are regulated by the ACC and its wholesale electric rates (primarily for transmission) are regulated by the FERC. On June 1, 2011, APS filed a rate case with the ACC requesting, among other things, an increase in retail rates to allow APS to continue to maintain and upgrade its electric systems for enhanced reliability, approval of recovery mechanisms, including a decoupling mechanism, and approval of other programs and mechanisms aimed at energy efficiency and renewable energy. On January 6, 2012, APS and other parties to the retail rate case entered into a Settlement Agreement detailing the terms upon which the parties have agreed to settle the rate case. The Settlement Agreement requires the approval of the ACC. As is the case with all such agreements, APS cannot predict whether the Settlement Agreement will be approved in the form filed or what changes may be ordered by the ACC and accepted by the parties. The proposed Settlement Agreement demonstrates cooperation among APS, the ACC staff, the Residential Utility Consumer Office and other intervenors to the rate case, and establishes a future rate case filing plan that allows APS the opportunity to help shape Arizonas energy future outside of continual rate cases. See Note 3 for details regarding the current rate case, the Settlement Agreement terms and for information on APSs FERC rates. APS has several recovery mechanisms in place that provide more timely recovery to APS of its fuel and transmission costs, and costs associated with the promotion and implementation of its demand side management and renewable energy efforts and customer programs. These mechanisms are described more fully in Note 3. Financial Strength and Flexibility. Pinnacle West and APS currently have ample borrowing capacity under their respective credit facilities and have been able to access these facilities, ensuring adequate liquidity for each company. In February 2011, APS entered into a $500 million revolving credit facility, replacing its $489 million revolving credit facility that would have otherwise terminated in September 2011. In November 2011, Pinnacle West and APS refinanced their $200 million and $500 million revolving credit facilities, respectively, that would have otherwise matured in February 2013. In August 2011, APS issued $300 million of 5.05% unsecured senior notes that mature on September 1, 2041. The net proceeds from the sale of the notes were used along with cash on hand to repay at maturity APSs $400 million aggregate principal amount of 6.375% senior notes due October 15, 2011. In January 2012, APS issued $325 million of 4.50% unsecured senior notes that mature on April 1, 2042. APS will use the net proceeds from the sale of the notes along with other funds to pay at maturity its $375 million aggregate principal amount of 6.50% unsecured senior notes that mature on March 1, 2012. APSES. On August 19, 2011, Pinnacle West sold its investment in APSES. The sale resulted in an after tax gain of approximately $10 million. Other Subsidiaries. The operations of El Dorado are not expected to have any material impact on our financial results, or to require any material amounts of capital, over the next three years. As a result of the continuing distressed conditions in the real estate markets, during 2009 our other first tier subsidiary, SunCor, undertook a program to dispose of its homebuilding operations, master planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order to eliminate its outstanding debt. At December 31, 2011, SunCor had total remaining assets of about $9 million, including $7 million of intercompany receivables, and no debt. In February 2012, SunCor filed for protection under the United States Bankruptcy Code to complete an orderly liquidation of its business. We do not expect SunCors bankruptcy to have a material impact on Pinnacle Wests financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 52 Table of Contents Key Financial Drivers In addition to the continuing impact of the matters described above, many factors influence our financial results and our future financial outlook, including those listed below. We closely monitor these factors to plan for the Companys current needs, and to adjust our expectations, financial budgets and forecasts appropriately. Electric Operating Revenues. For the years 2009 through 2011, retail electric revenues comprised approximately 93% of our total electric operating revenues. Our electric operating revenues are affected by customer growth or decline, variations in weather from period to period, customer mix, average usage per customer and the impacts of energy efficiency programs, electricity rates and tariffs, the recovery of PSA deferrals and the operation of other recovery mechanisms. Off system sales of excess generation output, purchased power and natural gas are included in regulated electricity segment revenues and related fuel and purchased power because they are credited to APSs retail customers through the PSA. These revenue transactions are affected by the availability of excess generation or other energy resources and wholesale market conditions, including competition, demand and prices. Customer and Sales Growth. Retail customer growth in APSs service territory for the year ended December 31, 2011 was 0.4% compared with the prior year. For the three years 2009 through 2011, APSs customer growth averaged 0.6% per year. We currently expect annual customer growth to average about 1.6% for 2012 through 2014 based on our assessment of modestly improving economic conditions, both nationally and in Arizona. Retail electricity sales in kilowatt hours, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations, for the year ended 2011 increased 0.6% compared with the prior year, reflecting mildly improving economic conditions, partially offset by the effects of our energy efficiency programs. For the three years 2009 through 2011, APS experienced annual declines in retail electricity sales averaging 0.9%, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations. We currently estimate that annual retail electricity sales in kilowatt hours will remain flat on average during 2012 through 2014, including the effects of APSs energy efficiency programs, but excluding the effects of weather variations. The failure of the Arizona economy to rebound in the near future could further impact these estimates. Actual sales growth, excluding weather related variations, may differ from our projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth, usage patterns, impacts of energy efficiency programs and responses to retail price changes. Our experience indicates that a reasonable range of variation in our kilowatt hour sales projection attributable to such economic factors under normal business conditions can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of up to $10 million. Weather. In forecasting the retail sales growth numbers provided above, we assume normal weather patterns based on historical data. Historical extreme weather variations have resulted in annual variations in net income in excess of $20 million. However, our experience indicates that the more typical variations from normal weather can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of up to $10 million. Fuel and Purchased Power Costs. Fuel and purchased power costs included on our Consolidated Statements of Income are impacted by our electricity sales volumes, existing contracts for purchased power and generation fuel, our power plant performance, transmission availability or constraints, prevailing market prices, new generating plants being placed in service in our market areas, our hedging program for managing such costs and PSA deferrals and the related amortization. 53 Table of Contents Operations and Maintenance Expenses. Operations and maintenance expenses are impacted by growth, power plant operations, maintenance of utility plant (including generation, transmission, and distribution facilities), inflation, outages, higher trending pension and other postretirement benefit costs, renewable energy and demand side management related expenses (which are offset by the same amount of regulated electricity segment operating revenues) and other factors. In the settlement agreement related to the 2008 retail rate case, APS committed to operational expense reductions from 2010 through 2014 and received approval to defer certain pension and other postretirement benefit cost increases to be incurred in 2011 and 2012. Depreciation and Amortization Expenses. Depreciation and amortization expenses are impacted by net additions to utility plant and other property (such as new generation, transmission, and distribution facilities), and changes in depreciation and amortization rates. See Capital Expenditures below for information regarding the planned additions to our facilities. With the twenty year extensions of the operating licenses for each of the Palo Verde units recently granted by the NRC, we estimate that our pretax depreciation expense will decrease by approximately $34 million per year starting on January 1, 2012. Property Taxes. Taxes other than income taxes consist primarily of property taxes, which are affected by the value of property in service and under construction, assessment ratios, and tax rates. The average property tax rate in Arizona for APS, which owns essentially all of our property, was 9.0% of the assessed value for 2011, 8.0% for 2010 and 7.5% for 2009. We expect property taxes to increase as we add new generating units and continue with improvements and expansions to our existing generating units, transmission and distribution facilities. (See Note 3 for property tax deferrals proposed in the Settlement Agreement.) Income Taxes. Income taxes are affected by the amount of pre tax book income, income tax rates, and certain non taxable items, such as the AFUDC. In addition, income taxes may also be affected by the settlement of issues with taxing authorities. Interest Expense. Interest expense is affected by the amount of debt outstanding and the interest rates on that debt (see Note 6.) The primary factors affecting borrowing levels are expected to be our capital expenditures, long term debt maturities, equity issuances and internally generated cash flow. An allowance for borrowed funds offsets a portion of interest expense while capital projects are under construction. We stop accruing AFUDC on a project when it is placed in commercial operation. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Pinnacle Wests reportable business segment is our regulated electricity segment, which consists of traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electricity service to Native Load customers) and related activities and includes electricity generation, transmission and distribution. APSESs and SunCors operations have been classified as discontinued operations. Pinnacle West sold its investment in APSES in August 2011. Operating Results 2011 compared with 2010 Our consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $339 million, compared with net income of $350 million for the prior year. The $11 million net decrease consisted of a $14 million decrease in income from discontinued operations and a $3 million increase in income from continuing operations primarily related to the regulated electricity 54 Table of Contents segment. Regulated electricity segment results reflect increased revenues related to weather and higher retail transmission charges and decreased operations and maintenance expenses. These positive factors were offset by higher depreciation and amortization due to increased plant in service, higher property taxes due to increased property tax rates and higher income taxes, including income tax benefits recognized in the prior year. In addition, income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 included a gain of approximately $10 million after income taxes related to the sale of our investment in APSES. Income from discontinued operations in the prior year was due to a $25 million gain after income taxes related to the sale of APSESs district cooling business. The following table presents net income attributable to common shareholders by business segment compared with the prior year: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 Net Change (dollars in millions) Regulated Electricity Segment: Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses (a) (b) $ 2,228 $ 2,134 $ 94 Operations and maintenance (a) (b) (904 ) (870 ) (34 ) Depreciation and amortization (427 ) (415 ) (12 ) Taxes other than income taxes (148 ) (135 ) (13 ) Other expenses, net (8 ) (4 ) (4 ) Interest charges, net of allowances for funds used during construction (200 ) (204 ) 4 Income taxes (184 ) (161 ) (23 ) Less income related to noncontrolling interests (Note 20) (28 ) (20 ) (8 ) Regulated electricity segment net income 329 325 4 All other (1 ) (1 ) Income from Continuing Operations Attributable to Common Shareholders 328 325 3 Income from Discontinued Operations Attributable to Common Shareholders (c) 11 25 (14 ) Net Income Attributable to Common Shareholders $ 339 $ 350 $ (11 ) (a) Includes effects of 2011 settlement of certain prior period transmission rights of way related to Four Corners, which did not affect net income, but increased both electric operating revenues and operations and maintenance expenses by $28 million. Costs related to the settlement were offset by related revenues from SCE, which leases the related transmission line from APS. 55 Table of Contents (b) Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses includes amounts related to demand side management, renewable energy and similar regulatory surcharges, which were substantially offset in operations and maintenance. (c) Includes activities related to APSES and SunCor. Regulated electricity segment This section includes a discussion of major variances in income and expense amounts for the regulated electricity segment. Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses Regulated electricity segment operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses were $94 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the prior year. The following table describes the major components of this change: Increase (Decrease) Operating revenues Fuel and purchased power expenses Net change (dollars in millions) Higher demand side management, renewable energy and similar regulatory surcharges $ 29 $ 1 $ 28 Settlement of certain prior period transmission rights of way 28 28 Effects of weather on usage per customer 33 13 20 Higher retail transmission charges 10 10 Higher line extension revenues (Note 3) 7 7 Higher usage per customer 8 6 2 Refund of PSA deferrals (33 ) (40 ) 7 Higher fuel and purchased power costs, net of off system sales (27 ) (24 ) (3 ) Miscellaneous items, net 2 7 (5 ) Total $ 57 $ (37 ) $ 94 Operations and maintenance Operations and maintenance expenses increased $34 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the prior year primarily because of: An increase of $28 million for settlement of certain transmission rights of way, which was offset in operating revenues; An increase of $27 million related to costs for demand side management, renewable energy, and similar regulatory programs, which were offset in operating revenues; A decrease of $16 million related to employee benefit costs; and A decrease of $5 million due to other miscellaneous factors. 56 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses were $12 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the prior year primarily because of increased plant in service. Taxes other than income taxes Taxes other than income taxes increased $13 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher property tax rates in the current period. Income taxes Income taxes were $23 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the prior year. This increase was primarily due to the effects of higher pretax income in the current year and income tax benefits recognized in the prior year related to a reduction in the Companys 2010 effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations Income from discontinued operations for year ended December 31, 2011 included a gain of $10 million related to the sale of our investment in APSES. Income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 included an after tax gain of $25 million related to the sale of APSESs district cooling business. Operating Results 2010 compared with 2009 Our consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders for 2010 was $350 million, compared with $68 million for the comparable prior year period. The improved results were primarily due to lower real estate impairment charges recorded in 2010 compared with the prior year period by SunCor. In addition, regulated electricity segment net income increased approximately $82 million from the prior year period due to increased revenues related to APSs retail rate increases and other factors. Our consolidated results for 2010 also include a gain of $25 million after income taxes related to the sale of APSESs district cooling business. 57 Table of Contents The following table presents net income (loss) attributable to common shareholders by business segment compared with the prior year period: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Net Change (dollars in millions) Regulated Electricity Segment: Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses (a) $ 2,134 $ 1,970 $ 164 Operations and maintenance (a) (870 ) (822 ) (48 ) Depreciation and amortization (415 ) (407 ) (8 ) Taxes other than income taxes (135 ) (123 ) (12 ) Other expenses, net (4 ) (2 ) (2 ) Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction (204 ) (212 ) 8 Income taxes (161 ) (142 ) (19 ) Noncontrolling interests (Note 20) (20 ) (19 ) (1 ) Regulated electricity segment net income 325 243 82 All other (b) (6 ) 6 Income from Continuing Operations Attributable to Common Shareholders 325 237 88 Discontinued real estate activities, primarily impairment charges at SunCor (Note 22) (6 ) (167 ) 161 All other discontinued operations (c) 31 (2 ) 33 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations Attributable to Common Shareholders 25 (169 ) 194 Net Income Attributable to Common Shareholders $ 350 $ 68 $ 282 (a) Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses includes amounts related to demand side management, renewable energy and similar regulatory surcharges, which were substantially offset in operations and maintenance. (b) Includes activities related to El Dorado. (c) Income from discontinued operations for 2010 includes a gain of $25 million after income taxes related to the sale of APSESs district cooling business. 58 Table of Contents Regulated electricity segment This section includes a discussion of major variances in income and expense amounts for the regulated electricity segment. Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses Regulated electricity segment operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses were $164 million higher for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year. The following table describes the major components of this change: Increase (Decrease) Operating revenues Fuel and purchased power expenses Net change (dollars in millions) Retail regulatory settlement effective January 1, 2010: Retail base rate increases, net of deferrals $ 269 $ 128 $ 141 Line extension revenues (Note 3) 19 19 Transmission rate increases 6 6 Higher demand side management and renewable energy surcharges 33 2 31 Higher fuel and purchased power costs, net of off system sales 28 26 2 Recovery of PSA deferrals (270 ) (276 ) 6 Lower usage per customer (28 ) (9 ) (19 ) Effects of weather on usage per customer (20 ) (6 ) (14 ) Miscellaneous items, net (5 ) 3 (8 ) Total $ 32 $ (132 ) $ 164 Operations and maintenance Operations and maintenance expenses increased $48 million for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year primarily because of: An increase of $25 million related to demand side management and renewable energy programs, which are primarily offset in operating revenues; An increase of $18 million related to employee benefits costs; and An increase of $5 million related to other miscellaneous factors. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses were $8 million higher for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year primarily because of increased plant in service partially offset by lower depreciation rates. Taxes other than income taxes Taxes other than income taxes increased $12 million for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher property tax rates in the current year. 59 Table of Contents Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction, decreased $8 million for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher rates in the current year for the allowance for equity and borrowed funds used during construction, partially offset by higher interest charges due to higher debt balances. Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction are comprised of the regulated electricity segment portions of the line items interest expense and allowance for equity and borrowed funds used during construction from the Consolidated Statements of Income. Income taxes Income taxes were $19 million higher for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher pretax income in the current year period, partially offset by $17 million of income tax benefits related to prior years that were resolved in the current year. See Note 4. All other All other increased $6 million primarily as a result of higher other income due to investment losses at El Dorado in 2009. Discontinued Operations Real estate activities During the first quarter of 2009, SunCors Board of Directors authorized a series of strategic transactions to dispose of SunCors assets. This decision resulted in impairment charges of approximately $161 million after income taxes in 2009. As of December 31, 2010, all of SunCors operations have been reclassified to discontinued operations (see Note 21). The after tax impacts of the $6 million loss from real estate activities for the year ended 2010 includes real estate impairment charges of approximately $10 million (see Note 22) and other costs of $6 million, partially offset by a gain from debt restructuring of approximately $10 million. All other All other earnings from discontinued operations were $33 million higher for the year ended 2010 compared to the prior year period primarily because of a gain of $25 million after income taxes related to the sale of APSESs district cooling business in 2010. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview Pinnacle Wests primary cash needs are for dividends to our shareholders and principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. The level of our common stock dividends and future dividend growth will be dependent on declaration of our Board of Directors based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, payout ratio trends, free cash flow and financial market conditions. Our primary sources of cash are dividends from APS, external debt and equity issuances. An existing ACC order requires APS to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40%. As defined in the ACC order, the common equity ratio is total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long term debt, including current maturities of long term debt. At December 31, 2011, APSs common equity ratio, as defined, was 55%. Its total shareholder equity was approximately $3.9 billion, and total capitalization was approximately $7.2 billion. Under this order, APS would be prohibited from paying dividends if the payment would reduce its total shareholder equity below approximately $2.9 billion, assuming APSs total capitalization remains the same. This restriction does not materially affect Pinnacle Wests ability to meet its ongoing capital requirements. 60 Table of Contents APSs capital requirements consist primarily of capital expenditures and maturities of long term debt. APS funds its capital requirements with cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, external debt financing and equity infusions from Pinnacle West. Many of APSs current capital expenditure projects qualify for bonus depreciation. The Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010 includes provisions making qualified property placed into service after September 8, 2010 and before January 1, 2012 eligible for 100% bonus depreciation for federal income tax purposes. In addition, qualified property placed into service in 2012 is eligible for 50% bonus depreciation for federal income tax purposes. These provisions of the recent tax legislation are expected to generate approximately $425 475 million of cash tax benefits for APS through accelerated depreciation. It is anticipated that these cash benefits will be fully realized by APS by the end of 2013, with a majority of the benefit realized in 2012. The cash generated is an acceleration of tax benefits that APS would have otherwise received over 20 years. Summary of Cash Flows The following tables present net cash provided by (used for) operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in millions): Pinnacle West Consolidated 2011 2010 2009 Net cash flow provided by operating activities $ 1,125 $ 750 $ 1,067 Net cash flow used for investing activities (782 ) (576 ) (705 ) Net cash flow used for financing activities (420 ) (209 ) (322 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (77 ) $ (35 ) $ 40 Arizona Public Service Company 2011 2010 2009 Net cash flow provided by operating activities $ 1,128 $ 695 $ 995 Net cash flow used for investing activities (834 ) (747 ) (738 ) Net cash flow provided by (used for) financing activities (374 ) 31 (208 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (80 ) $ (21 ) $ 49 Operating Cash Flows 2011 Compared with 2010 Pinnacle Wests consolidated net cash provided by operating activities was $1,125 million in 2011, compared to $750 million in 2010, an increase of $375 million in net cash provided. The increase is primarily due to the $161 million change in collateral and margin posted, as a result of changes in commodity prices and expiration of prior hedge contracts, and a $200 million voluntary pension contribution in 2010 (approximately $40 million of which is reflected in capital expenditures). In addition, APSs operating cash flows included income tax payments to the parent company of approximately $81 million in 2010. 2010 Compared with 2009 Pinnacle Wests consolidated net cash provided by operating activities was $750 million in 2010, compared to $1,067 million in 2009, a decrease of $317 million in net cash provided. The decrease is primarily due to voluntary pension contributions in 2010 of $200 61 Table of Contents million (approximately $40 million of which is reflected in capital expenditures), the $121 million change in collateral and margin cash provided as a result of changes in commodity prices, and other changes in working capital. In addition, APSs operating cash flows included income tax payments to the parent company of approximately $81 million in 2010. Other Pinnacle West sponsors a qualified defined benefit pension plan and a non qualified supplemental excess benefit retirement plan for the employees of Pinnacle West and our subsidiaries. The requirements of the Employee Retirement Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) require us to contribute a minimum amount to the qualified plan. We contribute at least the minimum amount required under ERISA regulations, but no more than the maximum tax deductible amount. The minimum required funding takes into consideration the value of plan assets and our pension obligation. Under ERISA, the qualified pension plan was 89% funded as of January 1, 2011 and is estimated to be 85% funded as of January 1, 2012. The assets in the plan are comprised of fixed income, equity, real estate, and short term investments. Future year contribution amounts are dependent on plan asset performance and plan actuarial assumptions. The required minimum contribution to our pension plan is $65 million in 2012, approximately $160 million in 2013 and approximately $160 million in 2014. The contributions to our other postretirement benefit plans for 2012, 2013 and 2014 are expected to be approximately $20 million each year. In addition, see further discussion in Critical Accounting Policies Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Accounting below. The $69 million long term income tax receivable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets represents the anticipated refunds related to an APS tax accounting method change approved by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in the third quarter of 2009. This amount is classified as long term, as cash refunds are not expected to be received in the next twelve months. Investing Cash Flows 2011 Compared with 2010 Pinnacle Wests consolidated net cash used for investing activities was $782 million in 2011, compared to $576 million in 2010, an increase of $206 million in net cash used. The increase in net cash used for investing activities is primarily due to an increase of $131 million in capital expenditures and a decrease of $126 million in net proceeds from the sales of our non utility businesses (see Note 21), partially offset by $55 million of proceeds from the sale of life insurance policies in 2011. 2010 Compared with 2009 Pinnacle Wests consolidated net cash used for investing activities was $576 million in 2010, compared to $705 million in 2009, a decrease of $129 million in net cash used. The decrease in net cash used for investing activities is primarily due to $100 million of proceeds from the sale of the district cooling business in June 2010 and the increase in proceeds from the sale of commercial real estate investments of $29 million. Capital Expenditures The following table summarizes the actual capital expenditures for 2009, 2010 and 2011 and estimated capital expenditures for the next three years: 62 Table of Contents Capital Expenditures (dollars in millions) Actual Estimated 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 APS Generation: Nuclear Fuel $ 64 $ 63 $ 85 $ 72 $ 80 $ 85 Renewables 6 225 149 218 198 Environmental 33 11 15 23 74 156 Four Corners Units 4 and 5 294 Other Generation 144 172 127 155 158 182 Distribution 246 232 238 269 268 267 Transmission 193 120 111 163 184 229 Other (a) 52 62 84 52 43 52 Total APS 732 666 885 1,177 1,025 1,169 Other 13 4 Total $ 745 $ 670 $ 885 $ 1,177 $ 1,025 $ 1,169 (a) Primarily information systems and facilities projects. Generation capital expenditures are comprised of various improvements to APSs existing fossil and nuclear plants. Examples of the types of projects included in this category are additions, upgrades and capital replacements of various power plant equipment, such as turbines, boilers and environmental equipment. Included under Renewables is the AZ Sun Program, which is a significant component of the increase in capital expenditures from 2010 to 2011. In addition, Renewables reflects capital funding from the 2012 RES implementation plan which was approved by the ACC on December 14, 2011. For purposes of this table, we have assumed the consummation of APSs purchase of SCEs interest in Four Corners Units 4 and 5, subject to ACC approval, and the subsequent shut down of Units 1 3, as discussed in the Overview section above. As a result, we included the $294 million purchase price plus adjustments under Generation and have not included environmental expenditures for Units 1 3. We are also monitoring the status of certain environmental matters, which, depending on their final outcome, could require modification to our environmental expenditures. Distribution and transmission capital expenditures are comprised of infrastructure additions and upgrades, capital replacements, and new customer construction. Examples of the types of projects included in the forecast include power lines, substations, and line extensions to new residential and commercial developments. Capital expenditures will be funded with internally generated cash and external financings, which may include issuances of long term debt and Pinnacle West common stock. Financing Cash Flows and Liquidity 2011 Compared with 2010 Pinnacle Wests consolidated net cash used for financing activities was $420 million in 2011, compared to $209 million in 2010, an increase of $211 million in 63 Table of Contents net cash used. The increase in net cash used for financing activities is primarily due to $78 million of long term debt repayments, net of issuances of long term debt (see below), and proceeds of $253 million from the issuance of equity in April 2010 (which was infused into APS), partially offset by $121 million lower repayments of short term borrowings at Pinnacle West. APSs net cash used for financing activities was $374 million in 2011, compared to net cash provided of $31 million in 2010, an increase of $405 million in net cash used. APSs increase in net cash used for financing activities is primarily due to $107 million of long term debt repayments, net of issuances of long term debt (see below), and proceeds of $253 million from the infusion of equity from Pinnacle West in April 2010. In addition, APS increased its dividend payment to Pinnacle West by $47 million in 2011. 2010 Compared with 2009 Pinnacle Wests consolidated net cash used for financing activities was $209 million in 2010, compared to $322 million in 2009, a decrease of $113 million in net cash used. The decrease in net cash used for financing activities is primarily due to lower repayments of short term borrowings in 2010 due to lower short term debt balances partially offset by lower net sources of equity and long term debt financing, including the absence of proceeds of $253 million from the issuance of equity in April 2010 (which was infused into APS), and APSs issuance of $500 million of unsecured senior notes in 2009. APSs net cash provided by financing activities was $31 million in 2010, compared to net cash used of $208 million in 2009, a decrease of $239 million in net cash used. The decrease in net cash used for financing activities is primarily due to $522 million of repayments of short term borrowings in 2009, partially offset by lower net sources of equity and long term debt financing, including the proceeds of $253 million from the infusion of equity from Pinnacle West in April 2010 and APSs issuance of $500 million of unsecured senior notes in 2009. Significant Financing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2011, Pinnacle Wests total dividend per share of common stock was $2.10 per share, which resulted in dividend payments of $222 million. On January 18, 2012, the Pinnacle West Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share of common stock, payable on March 1, 2012, to shareholders of record on February 1, 2012. On February 23, 2011, Pinnacle West entered into a $175 million term loan facility that matures February 20, 2015. Pinnacle West used the proceeds of the loan to repay its 5.91% $175 million Senior Notes. Interest rates are based on Pinnacle Wests senior unsecured debt credit ratings, or, if unavailable, its long term issuer ratings. As of December 31, 2011, $50 million of the $175 million term loan facility had been repaid. On August 25, 2011, APS issued $300 million of 5.05% unsecured senior notes that mature on September 1, 2041. The net proceeds from the sale of the notes were used along with cash on hand to repay at maturity APSs $400 million aggregate principal amount of 6.375% senior notes due October 15, 2011. On September 7, 2011, APS entered into a new letter of credit agreement supporting its approximately $27 million aggregate principal amount of Coconino County, Arizona Pollution Control Corporation Pollution Control Revenue Refunding Bonds (Arizona Public Service Company Navajo Project), 2009 Series B. The agreement expires September 22, 2016. 64 Table of Contents On December 8, 2011, APS extended a letter of credit agreement supporting its approximately $17 million aggregate principal amount of Coconino County, Arizona Pollution Control Corporation Pollution Control Revenue Bonds (Arizona Public Service Company Project), 1998. The agreement expires December 8, 2016. On January 10, 2012, APS issued $325 million of 4.50% unsecured senior notes that mature on April 1, 2042. The net proceeds from the sale along with other funds will be used to repay at maturity APSs $375 million aggregate principal amount of 6.50% senior notes due March 1, 2012. Available Credit Facilities Pinnacle West and APS maintain committed revolving credit facilities in order to enhance liquidity and provide credit support for their commercial paper programs. On November 4, 2011, Pinnacle West refinanced its $200 million revolving credit facility that would have matured in February 2013, with a new $200 million facility. The new revolving credit facility terminates in November 2016. Interest rates are based on Pinnacle Wests senior unsecured debt credit ratings. At December 31, 2011, the Pinnacle West credit facility was available to refinance indebtedness of the Company and for other general corporate purposes, including credit support for its $200 million commercial paper program. Pinnacle West has the option to increase the amount of the facility up to a maximum of $300 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders. At December 31, 2011, Pinnacle West had no outstanding borrowings under its credit facility, no letters of credit and no commercial paper borrowings. On February 14, 2011, APS refinanced its $489 million credit facility that would have matured in September 2011, and increased the size of the facility to $500 million. The new revolving credit facility terminates in February 2015. APS may increase the amount of the facility up to a maximum of $700 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders. APS will use the facility to refinance indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes. Interest rates are based on APSs senior unsecured debt credit ratings. On November 4, 2011, APS refinanced its $500 million revolving credit facility that would have matured in February 2013, with a new $500 million facility. The new revolving credit facility terminates in November 2016. APS may increase the amount of the facility up to a maximum of $700 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders. APS will use the facility to refinance indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes. Interest rates are based on APSs senior unsecured debt credit ratings. At December 31, 2011, APS had two credit facilities totaling $1 billion as described above. The facilities described above are available to support its $250 million commercial paper program, for bank borrowings, or for issuances of letters of credit. At December 31, 2011, APS had no borrowings outstanding under any of its credit facilities and no outstanding commercial paper. See Financial Assurances in Note 11 for a discussion of APSs letters of credit. 65 Table of Contents Other Financing Matters See Note 3 for information regarding the PSA approved by the ACC. Although APS defers actual retail fuel and purchased power costs to the extent those costs vary from the Base Fuel Rate on a current basis, APSs recovery or refund of the deferrals from or to its ratepayers, as appropriate, is subject to annual and, if necessary, periodic PSA adjustments. See Note 3 for information regarding the settlement related to the 2008 retail rate case, which includes ACC authorization and requirements of equity infusions into APS of at least $700 million by December 31, 2014 ($253 million of which was infused into APS from proceeds of a Pinnacle West equity issuance in 2010). See Note 18 for information related to the change in our margin accounts. Debt Provisions Pinnacle Wests and APSs debt covenants related to their respective bank financing arrangements include maximum debt to capitalization ratios. Pinnacle West and APS comply with this covenant. For both Pinnacle West and APS, this covenant requires that the ratio of consolidated debt to total consolidated capitalization not exceed 65%. At December 31, 2011, the ratio was approximately 47% for Pinnacle West and 46% for APS. Failure to comply with such covenant levels would result in an event of default which, generally speaking, would require the immediate repayment of the debt subject to the covenants and could cross default other debt. See further discussion of cross default provisions below. Neither Pinnacle Wests nor APSs financing agreements contain rating triggers that would result in an acceleration of the required interest and principal payments in the event of a rating downgrade. However, our bank credit agreements contain a pricing grid in which the interest rates we pay for borrowings thereunder are determined by our current credit ratings. All of Pinnacle Wests loan agreements contain cross default provisions that would result in defaults and the potential acceleration of payment under these loan agreements if Pinnacle West or APS were to default under certain other material agreements. All of APSs bank agreements contain cross default provisions that would result in defaults and the potential acceleration of payment under these bank agreements if APS were to default under certain other material agreements. Pinnacle West and APS do not have a material adverse change restriction for credit facility borrowings. See Note 6 for further discussions of liquidity matters. Credit Ratings The ratings of securities of Pinnacle West and APS as of February 15, 2012 are shown below. We are disclosing these credit ratings to enhance understanding of our cost of short term and long term capital and our ability to access the markets for liquidity and long term debt. The ratings reflect the respective views of the rating agencies, from which an explanation of the significance of their ratings may be obtained. There is no assurance that these ratings will continue for any given period of time. The ratings may be revised or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies if, in their respective judgments, circumstances so warrant. Any downward revision or withdrawal may adversely affect the market price of Pinnacle Wests or APSs securities and or result in an increase in the cost of, or limit access to, capital. Such revisions may also result in substantial additional cash or other collateral requirements related to certain derivative instruments, insurance policies, natural gas transportation, 66 Table of Contents fuel supply, and other energy related contracts. At this time, we believe we have sufficient liquidity to cover a downward revision to our credit ratings. Moodys Standard & Poors Fitch Pinnacle West Corporate credit rating Baa3 BBB BBB Commercial paper P 3 A 2 F3 Outlook Stable Positive Stable APS Senior unsecured Baa2 BBB BBB Secured lease obligation bonds Baa2 BBB BBB Corporate credit rating Baa2 BBB BBB Commercial paper P 2 A 2 F3 Outlook Stable Positive Stable Off Balance Sheet Arrangements See Note 20 for a discussion of the impacts on our financial statements of consolidating certain VIEs. Guarantees and Surety Bonds Pinnacle West sold its investment in APSES on August 19, 2011. Upon the closing of the sale, Pinnacle West was released from its parental guarantee and surety bond obligations related to the APSES business. Pinnacle West has also issued parental guarantees and surety bonds for APS which were not material at December 31, 2011. 67 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes Pinnacle Wests consolidated contractual requirements as of December 31, 2011 (dollars in millions): 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total Long term debt payments, including interest: (a) APS $ 666 $ 952 $ 924 $ 2,846 $ 5,388 Pinnacle West 3 6 126 135 Total long term debt payments, including interest and capital lease obligations 669 958 1,050 2,846 5,523 Fuel and purchased power commitments (b) 449 1,009 1,026 6,558 9,042 Renewable energy credits (c) 58 65 64 388 575 Purchase obligations (d) 131 75 12 265 483 Nuclear decommissioning funding requirements 17 34 20 71 142 Noncontrolling interests 11 37 35 83 Operating lease payments 21 33 15 23 92 Total contractual commitments $ 1,356 $ 2,211 $ 2,222 $ 10,151 $ 15,940 (a) The long term debt matures at various dates through 2041 and bears interest principally at fixed rates. Interest on variable rate long term debt is determined by using average rates at December 31, 2011 (see Note 6). (b) Our fuel and purchased power commitments include purchases of coal, electricity, natural gas, renewable energy and nuclear fuel (see Notes 3 and 11). (c) Contracts to purchase renewable energy credits in compliance with the RES. (d) These contractual obligations include commitments for capital expenditures and other obligations. These amounts do not include the purchase of SCEs interest in Four Corners Units 4 and 5 due to additional approvals required. See discussion in Overview. This table excludes $136 million in unrecognized tax benefits because the timing of the future cash outflows is uncertain. This table also excludes approximately $65 million, $160 million and $160 million in estimated minimum pension contributions for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively (see Note 8). CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES In preparing the financial statements in accordance with GAAP, management must often make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements and during the reporting period. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and actual results could differ from those estimates. We consider the following accounting policies to be our most critical because of the uncertainties, judgments and complexities of the underlying accounting standards and operations involved. 68 Table of Contents Regulatory Accounting Regulatory accounting allows for the actions of regulators, such as the ACC and the FERC, to be reflected in our financial statements. Their actions may cause us to capitalize costs that would otherwise be included as an expense in the current period by unregulated companies. Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that have been deferred because they are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent expected future costs that have already been collected from customers. Management continually assesses whether our regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory environment changes and recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction. This determination reflects the current political and regulatory climate in the state and is subject to change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the assets would be written off as a charge in current period earnings. We had $1.4 billion of regulatory assets and $826 million of regulatory liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011. Included in the balance of regulatory assets at December 31, 2011 is a regulatory asset of $1.0 billion for pension and other postretirement benefits. This regulatory asset represents the future recovery of these costs through retail rates as these amounts are charged to earnings. If these costs are disallowed by the ACC, this regulatory asset would be charged to OCI and result in lower future earnings. See Notes 1 and 3 for more information. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Accounting Changes in our actuarial assumptions used in calculating our pension and other postretirement benefit liability and expense can have a significant impact on our earnings and financial position. The most relevant actuarial assumptions are the discount rate used to measure our liability and net periodic cost, the expected long term rate of return on plan assets used to estimate earnings on invested funds over the long term, and the assumed healthcare cost trend rates. We review these assumptions on an annual basis and adjust them as necessary. The following chart reflects the sensitivities that a change in certain actuarial assumptions would have had on the December 31, 2011 reported pension liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and our 2011 reported pension expense, after consideration of amounts capitalized or billed to electric plant participants, on Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Statements of Income (dollars in millions): Increase (Decrease) Actuarial Assumption (a) Impact on Pension Liability Impact on Pension Expense Discount rate: Increase 1% $ (296 ) $ (10 ) Decrease 1% 333 10 Expected long term rate of return on plan assets: Increase 1% (8 ) Decrease 1% 8 69 Table of Contents (a) Each fluctuation assumes that the other assumptions of the calculation are held constant while the rates are changed by one percentage point. The following chart reflects the sensitivities that a change in certain actuarial assumptions would have had on the December 31, 2011 reported other postretirement benefit obligation on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and our 2011 reported other postretirement benefit expense, after consideration of amounts capitalized or billed to electric plant participants, on Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Statements of Income (dollars in millions): Increase (Decrease) Actuarial Assumption (a) Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Obligation Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Expense Discount rate: Increase 1% $ (160 ) $ (7 ) Decrease 1% 189 8 Health care cost trend rate (b): Increase 1% 187 11 Decrease 1% (148 ) (9 ) Expected long term rate of return on plan assets pretax: Increase 1% (2 ) Decrease 1% 2 (a) Each fluctuation assumes that the other assumptions of the calculation are held constant while the rates are changed by one percentage point. (b) This assumes a 1% change in the initial and ultimate health care cost trend rate. See Note 8 for further details about our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Derivative Accounting Derivative accounting requires evaluation of rules that are complex and subject to varying interpretations. Our evaluation of these rules, as they apply to our contracts, determines whether we use accrual accounting (for derivative instruments designated as normal) or fair value (mark to market) accounting. Mark to market accounting requires that changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recognized periodically in income unless certain hedge criteria are met. When a derivative instrument qualifies as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of changes in the fair value is recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) and the ineffective portion is recognized in current earnings. See Market Risks Commodity Price Risk below for quantitative analysis. See Fair Value Measurements below for additional information on valuation. See Note 1 for discussion on accounting policies and Note 18 for a further discussion on derivative accounting. 70 Table of Contents Fair Value Measurements We account for derivative instruments, investments held in our nuclear decommissioning trust, certain cash equivalents and plan assets held in our retirement and other benefit plans at fair value on a recurring basis. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. We use inputs, or assumptions that market participants would use, to determine fair market value. The significance of a particular input determines how the instrument is classified in a fair value hierarchy. We utilize valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The determination of fair value sometimes requires subjective and complex judgment. Our assessment of the inputs and the significance of a particular input to fair value measurement may affect the valuation of the instruments and their placement within a fair value hierarchy. Actual results could differ from our estimates of fair value. See Note 1 for discussion on accounting policies and Note 14 for further fair value measurement discussion. OTHER ACCOUNTING MATTERS See Note 2 for discussion regarding the adoption of amended accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2012 relating to fair value measurements and disclosures, and the presentation of comprehensive income. MARKET AND CREDIT RISKS Market Risks Our operations include managing market risks related to changes in interest rates, commodity prices and investments held by our nuclear decommissioning trust fund. Interest Rate and Equity Risk We have exposure to changing interest rates. Changing interest rates will affect interest paid on variable rate debt and the market value of fixed income securities held by our nuclear decommissioning trust fund (see Note 14). The nuclear decommissioning trust fund also has risks associated with the changing market value of its investments. Nuclear decommissioning costs are recovered in regulated electricity prices. The tables below present contractual balances of our consolidated long term and short term debt at the expected maturity dates as well as the fair value of those instruments on December 31, 2011 and 2010. The interest rates presented in the tables below represent the weighted average interest rates as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollars in thousands): 71 Table of Contents Pinnacle West Consolidated Variable Rate Long Term Debt Fixed Rate Long Term Debt Interest Interest 2011 Rates Amount Rates Amount 2012 $ 6.41 % $ 477,435 2013 4.94 % 122,828 2014 5.91 % 502,274 2015 1.79 % 125,000 4.79 % 313,420 2016 0.09 % 43,580 4.98 % 314,000 Years thereafter 6.49 % 1,605,150 Total $ 168,580 $ 3,335,107 Fair value $ 167,018 $ 3,758,811 Short Term Debt Variable Rate Long Term Debt Fixed Rate Long Term Debt Interest Interest Interest 2010 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount 2011 0.84 % $ 16,600 0.32 % $ 26,710 6.32 % $ 605,169 2012 6.41 % 477,435 2013 0.32 % 16,870 4.94 % 122,828 2014 5.91 % 502,274 2015 4.79 % 313,420 Years thereafter 6.69 % 1,619,150 Total $ 16,600 $ 43,580 $ 3,640,276 Fair value $ 16,600 $ 43,580 $ 3,869,681 The tables below present contractual balances of APSs long term debt at the expected maturity dates as well as the fair value of those instruments on December 31, 2011 and 2010. The interest rates presented in the tables below represent the weighted average interest rates as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollars in thousands): 72 Table of Contents APS Consolidated Variable Rate Long Term Debt Fixed Rate Long Term Debt Interest Interest 2011 Rates Amount Rates Amount 2012 $ 6.41 % $ 477,435 2013 4.94 % 122,828 2014 5.91 % 502,274 2015 4.79 % 313,420 2016 0.09 % 43,580 4.98 % 314,000 Years thereafter 6.49 % 1,605,150 Total $ 43,580 $ 3,335,107 Fair value $ 43,580 $ 3,758,811 Variable Rate Long Term Debt Fixed Rate Long Term Debt Interest Interest 2010 Rates Amount Rates Amount 2011 0.32 % $ 26,710 6.48 % $ 430,169 2012 6.41 % 477,435 2013 0.32 % 16,870 4.94 % 122,828 2014 5.91 % 502,274 2015 4.79 % 313,420 Years thereafter 6.69 % 1,619,150 Total $ 43,580 $ 3,465,276 Fair value $ 43,580 $ 3,693,276 Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the commodity price and transportation costs of electricity and natural gas. Our risk management committee, consisting of officers and key management personnel, oversees company wide energy risk management activities to ensure compliance with our stated energy risk management policies. We manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity instruments that may qualify as derivatives, including futures, forwards, options and swaps. As part of our risk management program, we use such instruments to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodities. The following table shows the net pretax changes in mark to market of our derivative positions in 2011 and 2010 (dollars in millions): 73 Table of Contents 2011 2010 Mark to market of net positions at beginning of year $ (239 ) $ (169 ) Recognized in earnings: Change in mark to market losses for future period deliveries (4 ) (7 ) Mark to market losses realized including ineffectiveness during the period 5 Increase in regulatory asset (1 ) (36 ) Recognized in OCI: Change in mark to market losses for future period deliveries (a) (95 ) (155 ) Mark to market losses realized during the period 117 123 Change in valuation techniques Mark to market of net positions at end of year $ (222 ) $ (239 ) (a) The changes in mark to market recorded in OCI are due primarily to changes in forward natural gas prices. The table below shows the fair value of maturities of our derivative contracts (dollars in millions) at December 31, 2011 by maturities and by the type of valuation that is performed to calculate the fair values. See Note 1, Derivative Accounting and Fair Value Measurements, for more discussion of our valuation methods. Source of Fair Value 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Years thereafter Total fair value Prices provided by other external sources $ (110 ) $ (44 ) $ (16 ) $ (1 ) $ $ $ (171 ) Prices based on models and other valuation methods (13 ) (8 ) (8 ) (9 ) (6 ) (7 ) (51 ) Total by maturity $ (123 ) $ (52 ) $ (24 ) $ (10 ) $ (6 ) $ (7 ) $ (222 ) The table below shows the impact that hypothetical price movements of 10% would have on the market value of our risk management assets and liabilities included on Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollars in millions): 74 Table of Contents December 31, 2011 Gain (Loss) December 31, 2010 Gain (Loss) Price Up 10% Price Down 10% Price Up 10% Price Down 10% Mark to market changes reported in: Earnings Natural gas $ 1 $ (1 ) $ 1 $ (1 ) Regulatory asset (liability) or OCI (a) Electricity 5 (5 ) 13 (13 ) Natural gas 27 (27 ) 42 (42 ) Total $ 33 $ (33 ) $ 56 $ (56 ) (a) These contracts are hedges of our forecasted purchases of natural gas and electricity. The impact of these hypothetical price movements would substantially offset the impact that these same price movements would have on the physical exposures being hedged. To the extent the amounts are eligible for inclusion in the PSA, the amounts are recorded as either a regulatory asset or liability. Credit Risk We are exposed to losses in the event of non performance or non payment by counterparties. See Note 18 for a discussion of our credit valuation adjustment policy. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK See Market and Credit Risks in Item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 75 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS INTRODUCTION The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Financial Statements and APSs Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes that appear in Item 8 of this report. For information on the broad factors that may cause our actual future results to differ from those we currently seek or anticipate, see Forward Looking Statements at the front of this report and Risk Factors in Item 1A. OVERVIEW Pinnacle West owns all of the outstanding common stock of APS. APS is a vertically integrated electric utility that provides either retail or wholesale electric service to most of the state of Arizona, with the major exceptions of about one half of the Phoenix metropolitan area, the Tucson metropolitan area and Mohave County in northwestern Arizona. APS accounts for essentially all of our revenues and earnings, and is expected to continue to do so. Areas of Business Focus Operational Performance, Reliability and Recent Developments. Nuclear. In 2011, Palo Verde achieved its best generation year ever, producing over 31 million megawatt hours, with an overall station capacity factor of 90.7%. In 2011, Palo Verde successfully refueled both Unit 1 and Unit 2. In April 2011, the NRC approved APSs application for renewed operating licenses for the Palo Verde units, extending the licenses for Units 1, 2 and 3 to June 2045, April 2046 and November 2047, respectively. APS management is working closely with regulators and others in the nuclear industry to analyze the lessons learned and address any rulemaking or improvements resulting from the March 2011 events impacting the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station in Japan. Coal and Related Environmental Matters. APS operated coal plants, Four Corners and Cholla, achieved net capacity factors of 78% and 82%, respectively, in 2011. APS is focused on the impacts on its coal fleet that may result from increased regulation and potential legislation concerning greenhouse gas emissions. Concern over climate change and other emission related issues could have a significant impact on our capital expenditures and operating costs in the form of taxes, emissions allowances or required equipment upgrades for these plants. APS is closely monitoring its long range capital management plans, understanding that any resulting regulation and legislation could impact the economic viability of certain plants, as well as the willingness or ability of power plant participants to fund any such equipment upgrades. In addition, SCE, a participant in Four Corners, has indicated that certain California legislation may prohibit it from making emission control expenditures at the plant. On November 8, 2010, APS and SCE entered into an asset purchase agreement, providing for the purchase by APS of SCEs 48% interest in each of Units 4 and 5 of Four Corners. The purchase price is $294 million, subject to certain adjustments. Completion of the purchase by APS, which is expected to occur in the second half of 2012, is subject to the receipt of approvals by the ACC, the California Public Utilities Commission (the CPUC) and the FERC. APS and SCE filed applications with their respective commissions seeking requisite authority or approvals to complete the transaction. On February 17, 2012, the CPUC issued a proposed decision approving the sale, with a final decision expected in March. Closing is also conditioned on the execution of a new coal supply 49 Table of Contents contract, expiration of the waiting period under the Hart Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and other typical closing conditions. Hearings at the ACC concluded on September 1, 2011. We expect the administrative law judge to issue a recommended decision in early 2012. APS, on behalf of the Four Corners participants, has negotiated amendments to an existing facility lease with the Navajo Nation which would extend the Four Corners leasehold interest from 2016 to 2041. Execution by the Navajo Nation of the lease amendments is a condition to closing of the purchase by APS of SCEs interests in Four Corners. The execution of these amendments by the Navajo Nation requires the approval of the Navajo Nation Council, which became effective in March 2011. The effectiveness of the amendments also requires the approval of the DOI, as does a related Federal rights of way grant which the Four Corners participants will pursue. A Federal environmental review is underway as part of the DOI review process. APS has announced that, if APSs purchase of SCEs interests in Units 4 and 5 at Four Corners is consummated, it will close Units 1, 2 and 3 at the plant. APS owns 100% of Units 1 3. These events will change the plants overall generating capacity from 2,100 MW to 1,540 MW and APSs entitlement from the plant from 791 MW to 970 MW. When applying for approval to purchase Units 4 and 5, APS also requested from the ACC recovery of any unrecovered costs associated with the closure of Units 1, 2 and 3. The proposed Settlement Agreement in APSs current retail rate case allows for the case to remain open to allow APS to seek a rate adjustment to reflect the Four Corners transaction should the ACC allow APS to pursue the acquisition and should the transaction thereafter close. APS cannot predict whether all of the conditions necessary to consummate the purchase of SCEs interest will be met such that closing can occur, including whether the parties will receive satisfactory regulatory approvals. Transmission and Delivery. In the area of transmission and delivery to its customers, APS had its best reliability year to date and ranked favorably during 2011, with top quartile performance for average annual customer outage time and average annual customer interruptions. APSs 2012 Ten Year Transmission Plan filed with the ACC in January 2012 projects that it will invest approximately $550 million in new transmission projects (115 kV and above) over the next ten years, adding 269 miles of new lines. The first three years of these additions are included in the capital expenditures table presented in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below along with other transmission costs for upgrades and replacements. APS is working closely with regulators to identify and plan for transmission needs resulting from the current focus on renewable energy. APS is also working to establish and expand smart grid technology throughout its service territory designed to provide long term benefits both to APS and its customers. APS is piloting and deploying a variety of technologies that are intended to allow customers to better monitor their energy use and needs, minimize system outage durations and the number of customers that experience outages, and facilitate cost savings to APS through improved reliability and the automation of certain distribution functions, including remote meter reading and remote connects and disconnects. Renewable Energy. The ACC approved the RES in 2006. The renewable energy requirement is 3.5% of retail electric sales in 2012 and increases annually until it reaches 15% in 2025. In the settlement agreement related to the 2008 retail rate case, APS agreed to exceed the RES standards, committing to 1,700 GWh of new renewable resources to be in service by year end 2015 in addition to its 2008 renewable resource commitments. Taken together, APSs commitment is estimated to be 3,400 GWh, or approximately 10% of APSs retail energy sales by year end 2015, which is double the existing RES target of 5% for that year. A component of the RES is focused on stimulating development of 50 Table of Contents distributed energy systems (generally speaking, small scale renewable technologies that are located on customers properties). APS has a diverse portfolio of existing and planned renewable resources totaling 946 MW, including solar, wind, geothermal, biomass and biogas. Of this portfolio, 423 MW are currently in operation and 523 MW are under contract for development or are under construction. Renewable resources in operation include 55 MW of utility scale facilities owned by APS, 232 MW of long term purchased power agreements, and an estimated 136 MW of customer sited, third party owned distributed energy resources. To achieve our RES requirements, as mentioned above, to date APS has entered into contracts for 523 MW of renewable resources that are planned, in development or under construction. APSs strategy to procure these resources includes new facilities to be owned by APS, purchased power contracts for new facilities and ongoing development of distributed energy resources. Through the AZ Sun Program, APS plans to own up to 200 MW of solar photovoltaic power plants across Arizona by investing up to $975 million through 2015. Under this program, APS has executed contracts for the development of 83 MW of new solar generation, representing an investment commitment of approximately $375 million. See Note 3 for additional details of the AZ Sun Program, including the related cost recovery. APS has also entered into long term purchased power agreements for 397 MW from solar, wind and biogas facilities currently planned, in development or under construction, and 93 MW from distributed energy resources. Agreements for the development and completion of future resources are subject to various conditions, including successful siting, permitting and interconnection of the project to the electric grid. On July 1, 2011, APS filed its annual RES implementation plan with the ACC, covering the 2012 2016 timeframe and requesting 2012 RES funding of $129 million to $152 million. On December 14, 2011, the ACC voted to approve APSs 2012 RES Plan and authorized a total 2012 RES budget of $110 million. Within that budget, the ACC authorized APS to, among other items, (i) own an additional 100 MW under the AZ Sun Program, for a total of 200 MW; (ii) recover revenue requirements for the second 100 MW as APS did for the first 100 MW of the AZ Sun Program; (iii) expand APSs School and Government Program by another 6.25 MW of utility owned distributed generation; and (iv) own another 25 MW of renewable generation to be described later and installed in 2014 and 2015. In addition, the ACC ordered an initial up front incentive of $0.75 per watt for residential distributed energy and incentive level step downs throughout 2012 based upon the volume and timing of residential incentive applications. Under the ACCS order, residential incentives could fall to $0.20 or $0.10 per watt by the end of 2012 depending on demand. Demand Side Management. In recent years, Arizona regulators have placed an increased focus on energy efficiency and other demand side management programs to encourage customers to conserve energy, while incentivizing utilities to aid in these efforts that ultimately reduce the demand for energy. In December 2009, the ACC initiated Energy Efficiency rulemaking, with a proposed Energy Efficiency Standard of 22% cumulative annual energy savings by 2020. The 22% figure represents the cumulative reduction in future energy usage through 2020 attributable to energy efficiency initiatives. On July 27, 2010, the proposed Energy Efficiency Standard was adopted by the ACC, approved by the Arizona Attorney General and became effective on January 1, 2011. This ambitious standard will likely impact Arizonas future energy resource needs. On June 1, 2011 APS filed its 2012 Energy Efficiency Implementation Plan with a proposed budget for 2012 of $90 million. APS expects a decision from the ACC prior to March 31, 2012. However, APS cannot predict whether the ACC will approve the plan as filed. 51 Table of Contents Rate Matters. APS needs timely recovery through rates of its capital and operating expenditures to maintain adequate financial health. APSs retail rates are regulated by the ACC and its wholesale electric rates (primarily for transmission) are regulated by the FERC. On June 1, 2011, APS filed a rate case with the ACC requesting, among other things, an increase in retail rates to allow APS to continue to maintain and upgrade its electric systems for enhanced reliability, approval of recovery mechanisms, including a decoupling mechanism, and approval of other programs and mechanisms aimed at energy efficiency and renewable energy. On January 6, 2012, APS and other parties to the retail rate case entered into a Settlement Agreement detailing the terms upon which the parties have agreed to settle the rate case. The Settlement Agreement requires the approval of the ACC. As is the case with all such agreements, APS cannot predict whether the Settlement Agreement will be approved in the form filed or what changes may be ordered by the ACC and accepted by the parties. The proposed Settlement Agreement demonstrates cooperation among APS, the ACC staff, the Residential Utility Consumer Office and other intervenors to the rate case, and establishes a future rate case filing plan that allows APS the opportunity to help shape Arizonas energy future outside of continual rate cases. See Note 3 for details regarding the current rate case, the Settlement Agreement terms and for information on APSs FERC rates. APS has several recovery mechanisms in place that provide more timely recovery to APS of its fuel and transmission costs, and costs associated with the promotion and implementation of its demand side management and renewable energy efforts and customer programs. These mechanisms are described more fully in Note 3. Financial Strength and Flexibility. Pinnacle West and APS currently have ample borrowing capacity under their respective credit facilities and have been able to access these facilities, ensuring adequate liquidity for each company. In February 2011, APS entered into a $500 million revolving credit facility, replacing its $489 million revolving credit facility that would have otherwise terminated in September 2011. In November 2011, Pinnacle West and APS refinanced their $200 million and $500 million revolving credit facilities, respectively, that would have otherwise matured in February 2013. In August 2011, APS issued $300 million of 5.05% unsecured senior notes that mature on September 1, 2041. The net proceeds from the sale of the notes were used along with cash on hand to repay at maturity APSs $400 million aggregate principal amount of 6.375% senior notes due October 15, 2011. In January 2012, APS issued $325 million of 4.50% unsecured senior notes that mature on April 1, 2042. APS will use the net proceeds from the sale of the notes along with other funds to pay at maturity its $375 million aggregate principal amount of 6.50% unsecured senior notes that mature on March 1, 2012. APSES. On August 19, 2011, Pinnacle West sold its investment in APSES. The sale resulted in an after tax gain of approximately $10 million. Other Subsidiaries. The operations of El Dorado are not expected to have any material impact on our financial results, or to require any material amounts of capital, over the next three years. As a result of the continuing distressed conditions in the real estate markets, during 2009 our other first tier subsidiary, SunCor, undertook a program to dispose of its homebuilding operations, master planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order to eliminate its outstanding debt. At December 31, 2011, SunCor had total remaining assets of about $9 million, including $7 million of intercompany receivables, and no debt. In February 2012, SunCor filed for protection under the United States Bankruptcy Code to complete an orderly liquidation of its business. We do not expect SunCors bankruptcy to have a material impact on Pinnacle Wests financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 52 Table of Contents Key Financial Drivers In addition to the continuing impact of the matters described above, many factors influence our financial results and our future financial outlook, including those listed below. We closely monitor these factors to plan for the Companys current needs, and to adjust our expectations, financial budgets and forecasts appropriately. Electric Operating Revenues. For the years 2009 through 2011, retail electric revenues comprised approximately 93% of our total electric operating revenues. Our electric operating revenues are affected by customer growth or decline, variations in weather from period to period, customer mix, average usage per customer and the impacts of energy efficiency programs, electricity rates and tariffs, the recovery of PSA deferrals and the operation of other recovery mechanisms. Off system sales of excess generation output, purchased power and natural gas are included in regulated electricity segment revenues and related fuel and purchased power because they are credited to APSs retail customers through the PSA. These revenue transactions are affected by the availability of excess generation or other energy resources and wholesale market conditions, including competition, demand and prices. Customer and Sales Growth. Retail customer growth in APSs service territory for the year ended December 31, 2011 was 0.4% compared with the prior year. For the three years 2009 through 2011, APSs customer growth averaged 0.6% per year. We currently expect annual customer growth to average about 1.6% for 2012 through 2014 based on our assessment of modestly improving economic conditions, both nationally and in Arizona. Retail electricity sales in kilowatt hours, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations, for the year ended 2011 increased 0.6% compared with the prior year, reflecting mildly improving economic conditions, partially offset by the effects of our energy efficiency programs. For the three years 2009 through 2011, APS experienced annual declines in retail electricity sales averaging 0.9%, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations. We currently estimate that annual retail electricity sales in kilowatt hours will remain flat on average during 2012 through 2014, including the effects of APSs energy efficiency programs, but excluding the effects of weather variations. The failure of the Arizona economy to rebound in the near future could further impact these estimates. Actual sales growth, excluding weather related variations, may differ from our projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth, usage patterns, impacts of energy efficiency programs and responses to retail price changes. Our experience indicates that a reasonable range of variation in our kilowatt hour sales projection attributable to such economic factors under normal business conditions can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of up to $10 million. Weather. In forecasting the retail sales growth numbers provided above, we assume normal weather patterns based on historical data. Historical extreme weather variations have resulted in annual variations in net income in excess of $20 million. However, our experience indicates that the more typical variations from normal weather can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of up to $10 million. Fuel and Purchased Power Costs. Fuel and purchased power costs included on our Consolidated Statements of Income are impacted by our electricity sales volumes, existing contracts for purchased power and generation fuel, our power plant performance, transmission availability or constraints, prevailing market prices, new generating plants being placed in service in our market areas, our hedging program for managing such costs and PSA deferrals and the related amortization. 53 Table of Contents Operations and Maintenance Expenses. Operations and maintenance expenses are impacted by growth, power plant operations, maintenance of utility plant (including generation, transmission, and distribution facilities), inflation, outages, higher trending pension and other postretirement benefit costs, renewable energy and demand side management related expenses (which are offset by the same amount of regulated electricity segment operating revenues) and other factors. In the settlement agreement related to the 2008 retail rate case, APS committed to operational expense reductions from 2010 through 2014 and received approval to defer certain pension and other postretirement benefit cost increases to be incurred in 2011 and 2012. Depreciation and Amortization Expenses. Depreciation and amortization expenses are impacted by net additions to utility plant and other property (such as new generation, transmission, and distribution facilities), and changes in depreciation and amortization rates. See Capital Expenditures below for information regarding the planned additions to our facilities. With the twenty year extensions of the operating licenses for each of the Palo Verde units recently granted by the NRC, we estimate that our pretax depreciation expense will decrease by approximately $34 million per year starting on January 1, 2012. Property Taxes. Taxes other than income taxes consist primarily of property taxes, which are affected by the value of property in service and under construction, assessment ratios, and tax rates. The average property tax rate in Arizona for APS, which owns essentially all of our property, was 9.0% of the assessed value for 2011, 8.0% for 2010 and 7.5% for 2009. We expect property taxes to increase as we add new generating units and continue with improvements and expansions to our existing generating units, transmission and distribution facilities. (See Note 3 for property tax deferrals proposed in the Settlement Agreement.) Income Taxes. Income taxes are affected by the amount of pre tax book income, income tax rates, and certain non taxable items, such as the AFUDC. In addition, income taxes may also be affected by the settlement of issues with taxing authorities. Interest Expense. Interest expense is affected by the amount of debt outstanding and the interest rates on that debt (see Note 6.) The primary factors affecting borrowing levels are expected to be our capital expenditures, long term debt maturities, equity issuances and internally generated cash flow. An allowance for borrowed funds offsets a portion of interest expense while capital projects are under construction. We stop accruing AFUDC on a project when it is placed in commercial operation. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Pinnacle Wests reportable business segment is our regulated electricity segment, which consists of traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electricity service to Native Load customers) and related activities and includes electricity generation, transmission and distribution. APSESs and SunCors operations have been classified as discontinued operations. Pinnacle West sold its investment in APSES in August 2011. Operating Results 2011 compared with 2010 Our consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $339 million, compared with net income of $350 million for the prior year. The $11 million net decrease consisted of a $14 million decrease in income from discontinued operations and a $3 million increase in income from continuing operations primarily related to the regulated electricity 54 Table of Contents segment. Regulated electricity segment results reflect increased revenues related to weather and higher retail transmission charges and decreased operations and maintenance expenses. These positive factors were offset by higher depreciation and amortization due to increased plant in service, higher property taxes due to increased property tax rates and higher income taxes, including income tax benefits recognized in the prior year. In addition, income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 included a gain of approximately $10 million after income taxes related to the sale of our investment in APSES. Income from discontinued operations in the prior year was due to a $25 million gain after income taxes related to the sale of APSESs district cooling business. The following table presents net income attributable to common shareholders by business segment compared with the prior year: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 Net Change (dollars in millions) Regulated Electricity Segment: Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses (a) (b) $ 2,228 $ 2,134 $ 94 Operations and maintenance (a) (b) (904 ) (870 ) (34 ) Depreciation and amortization (427 ) (415 ) (12 ) Taxes other than income taxes (148 ) (135 ) (13 ) Other expenses, net (8 ) (4 ) (4 ) Interest charges, net of allowances for funds used during construction (200 ) (204 ) 4 Income taxes (184 ) (161 ) (23 ) Less income related to noncontrolling interests (Note 20) (28 ) (20 ) (8 ) Regulated electricity segment net income 329 325 4 All other (1 ) (1 ) Income from Continuing Operations Attributable to Common Shareholders 328 325 3 Income from Discontinued Operations Attributable to Common Shareholders (c) 11 25 (14 ) Net Income Attributable to Common Shareholders $ 339 $ 350 $ (11 ) (a) Includes effects of 2011 settlement of certain prior period transmission rights of way related to Four Corners, which did not affect net income, but increased both electric operating revenues and operations and maintenance expenses by $28 million. Costs related to the settlement were offset by related revenues from SCE, which leases the related transmission line from APS. 55 Table of Contents (b) Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses includes amounts related to demand side management, renewable energy and similar regulatory surcharges, which were substantially offset in operations and maintenance. (c) Includes activities related to APSES and SunCor. Regulated electricity segment This section includes a discussion of major variances in income and expense amounts for the regulated electricity segment. Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses Regulated electricity segment operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses were $94 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the prior year. The following table describes the major components of this change: Increase (Decrease) Operating revenues Fuel and purchased power expenses Net change (dollars in millions) Higher demand side management, renewable energy and similar regulatory surcharges $ 29 $ 1 $ 28 Settlement of certain prior period transmission rights of way 28 28 Effects of weather on usage per customer 33 13 20 Higher retail transmission charges 10 10 Higher line extension revenues (Note 3) 7 7 Higher usage per customer 8 6 2 Refund of PSA deferrals (33 ) (40 ) 7 Higher fuel and purchased power costs, net of off system sales (27 ) (24 ) (3 ) Miscellaneous items, net 2 7 (5 ) Total $ 57 $ (37 ) $ 94 Operations and maintenance Operations and maintenance expenses increased $34 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the prior year primarily because of: An increase of $28 million for settlement of certain transmission rights of way, which was offset in operating revenues; An increase of $27 million related to costs for demand side management, renewable energy, and similar regulatory programs, which were offset in operating revenues; A decrease of $16 million related to employee benefit costs; and A decrease of $5 million due to other miscellaneous factors. 56 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses were $12 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the prior year primarily because of increased plant in service. Taxes other than income taxes Taxes other than income taxes increased $13 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher property tax rates in the current period. Income taxes Income taxes were $23 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with the prior year. This increase was primarily due to the effects of higher pretax income in the current year and income tax benefits recognized in the prior year related to a reduction in the Companys 2010 effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations Income from discontinued operations for year ended December 31, 2011 included a gain of $10 million related to the sale of our investment in APSES. Income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 included an after tax gain of $25 million related to the sale of APSESs district cooling business. Operating Results 2010 compared with 2009 Our consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders for 2010 was $350 million, compared with $68 million for the comparable prior year period. The improved results were primarily due to lower real estate impairment charges recorded in 2010 compared with the prior year period by SunCor. In addition, regulated electricity segment net income increased approximately $82 million from the prior year period due to increased revenues related to APSs retail rate increases and other factors. Our consolidated results for 2010 also include a gain of $25 million after income taxes related to the sale of APSESs district cooling business. 57 Table of Contents The following table presents net income (loss) attributable to common shareholders by business segment compared with the prior year period: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Net Change (dollars in millions) Regulated Electricity Segment: Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses (a) $ 2,134 $ 1,970 $ 164 Operations and maintenance (a) (870 ) (822 ) (48 ) Depreciation and amortization (415 ) (407 ) (8 ) Taxes other than income taxes (135 ) (123 ) (12 ) Other expenses, net (4 ) (2 ) (2 ) Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction (204 ) (212 ) 8 Income taxes (161 ) (142 ) (19 ) Noncontrolling interests (Note 20) (20 ) (19 ) (1 ) Regulated electricity segment net income 325 243 82 All other (b) (6 ) 6 Income from Continuing Operations Attributable to Common Shareholders 325 237 88 Discontinued real estate activities, primarily impairment charges at SunCor (Note 22) (6 ) (167 ) 161 All other discontinued operations (c) 31 (2 ) 33 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations Attributable to Common Shareholders 25 (169 ) 194 Net Income Attributable to Common Shareholders $ 350 $ 68 $ 282 (a) Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses includes amounts related to demand side management, renewable energy and similar regulatory surcharges, which were substantially offset in operations and maintenance. (b) Includes activities related to El Dorado. (c) Income from discontinued operations for 2010 includes a gain of $25 million after income taxes related to the sale of APSESs district cooling business. 58 Table of Contents Regulated electricity segment This section includes a discussion of major variances in income and expense amounts for the regulated electricity segment. Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses Regulated electricity segment operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses were $164 million higher for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year. The following table describes the major components of this change: Increase (Decrease) Operating revenues Fuel and purchased power expenses Net change (dollars in millions) Retail regulatory settlement effective January 1, 2010: Retail base rate increases, net of deferrals $ 269 $ 128 $ 141 Line extension revenues (Note 3) 19 19 Transmission rate increases 6 6 Higher demand side management and renewable energy surcharges 33 2 31 Higher fuel and purchased power costs, net of off system sales 28 26 2 Recovery of PSA deferrals (270 ) (276 ) 6 Lower usage per customer (28 ) (9 ) (19 ) Effects of weather on usage per customer (20 ) (6 ) (14 ) Miscellaneous items, net (5 ) 3 (8 ) Total $ 32 $ (132 ) $ 164 Operations and maintenance Operations and maintenance expenses increased $48 million for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year primarily because of: An increase of $25 million related to demand side management and renewable energy programs, which are primarily offset in operating revenues; An increase of $18 million related to employee benefits costs; and An increase of $5 million related to other miscellaneous factors. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses were $8 million higher for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year primarily because of increased plant in service partially offset by lower depreciation rates. Taxes other than income taxes Taxes other than income taxes increased $12 million for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher property tax rates in the current year. 59 Table of Contents Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction, decreased $8 million for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher rates in the current year for the allowance for equity and borrowed funds used during construction, partially offset by higher interest charges due to higher debt balances. Interest charges, net of allowance for funds used during construction are comprised of the regulated electricity segment portions of the line items interest expense and allowance for equity and borrowed funds used during construction from the Consolidated Statements of Income. Income taxes Income taxes were $19 million higher for the year ended 2010 compared with the prior year primarily because of higher pretax income in the current year period, partially offset by $17 million of income tax benefits related to prior years that were resolved in the current year. See Note 4. All other All other increased $6 million primarily as a result of higher other income due to investment losses at El Dorado in 2009. Discontinued Operations Real estate activities During the first quarter of 2009, SunCors Board of Directors authorized a series of strategic transactions to dispose of SunCors assets. This decision resulted in impairment charges of approximately $161 million after income taxes in 2009. As of December 31, 2010, all of SunCors operations have been reclassified to discontinued operations (see Note 21). The after tax impacts of the $6 million loss from real estate activities for the year ended 2010 includes real estate impairment charges of approximately $10 million (see Note 22) and other costs of $6 million, partially offset by a gain from debt restructuring of approximately $10 million. All other All other earnings from discontinued operations were $33 million higher for the year ended 2010 compared to the prior year period primarily because of a gain of $25 million after income taxes related to the sale of APSESs district cooling business in 2010. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview Pinnacle Wests primary cash needs are for dividends to our shareholders and principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. The level of our common stock dividends and future dividend growth will be dependent on declaration of our Board of Directors based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, payout ratio trends, free cash flow and financial market conditions. Our primary sources of cash are dividends from APS, external debt and equity issuances. An existing ACC order requires APS to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40%. As defined in the ACC order, the common equity ratio is total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long term debt, including current maturities of long term debt. At December 31, 2011, APSs common equity ratio, as defined, was 55%. Its total shareholder equity was approximately $3.9 billion, and total capitalization was approximately $7.2 billion. Under this order, APS would be prohibited from paying dividends if the payment would reduce its total shareholder equity below approximately $2.9 billion, assuming APSs total capitalization remains the same. This restriction does not materially affect Pinnacle Wests ability to meet its ongoing capital requirements. 60 Table of Contents APSs capital requirements consist primarily of capital expenditures and maturities of long term debt. APS funds its capital requirements with cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, external debt financing and equity infusions from Pinnacle West. Many of APSs current capital expenditure projects qualify for bonus depreciation. The Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010 includes provisions making qualified property placed into service after September 8, 2010 and before January 1, 2012 eligible for 100% bonus depreciation for federal income tax purposes. In addition, qualified property placed into service in 2012 is eligible for 50% bonus depreciation for federal income tax purposes. These provisions of the recent tax legislation are expected to generate approximately $425 475 million of cash tax benefits for APS through accelerated depreciation. It is anticipated that these cash benefits will be fully realized by APS by the end of 2013, with a majority of the benefit realized in 2012. The cash generated is an acceleration of tax benefits that APS would have otherwise received over 20 years. Summary of Cash Flows The following tables present net cash provided by (used for) operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in millions): Pinnacle West Consolidated 2011 2010 2009 Net cash flow provided by operating activities $ 1,125 $ 750 $ 1,067 Net cash flow used for investing activities (782 ) (576 ) (705 ) Net cash flow used for financing activities (420 ) (209 ) (322 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (77 ) $ (35 ) $ 40 Arizona Public Service Company 2011 2010 2009 Net cash flow provided by operating activities $ 1,128 $ 695 $ 995 Net cash flow used for investing activities (834 ) (747 ) (738 ) Net cash flow provided by (used for) financing activities (374 ) 31 (208 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (80 ) $ (21 ) $ 49 Operating Cash Flows 2011 Compared with 2010 Pinnacle Wests consolidated net cash provided by operating activities was $1,125 million in 2011, compared to $750 million in 2010, an increase of $375 million in net cash provided. The increase is primarily due to the $161 million change in collateral and margin posted, as a result of changes in commodity prices and expiration of prior hedge contracts, and a $200 million voluntary pension contribution in 2010 (approximately $40 million of which is reflected in capital expenditures). In addition, APSs operating cash flows included income tax payments to the parent company of approximately $81 million in 2010. 2010 Compared with 2009 Pinnacle Wests consolidated net cash provided by operating activities was $750 million in 2010, compared to $1,067 million in 2009, a decrease of $317 million in net cash provided. The decrease is primarily due to voluntary pension contributions in 2010 of $200 61 Table of Contents million (approximately $40 million of which is reflected in capital expenditures), the $121 million change in collateral and margin cash provided as a result of changes in commodity prices, and other changes in working capital. In addition, APSs operating cash flows included income tax payments to the parent company of approximately $81 million in 2010. Other Pinnacle West sponsors a qualified defined benefit pension plan and a non qualified supplemental excess benefit retirement plan for the employees of Pinnacle West and our subsidiaries. The requirements of the Employee Retirement Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) require us to contribute a minimum amount to the qualified plan. We contribute at least the minimum amount required under ERISA regulations, but no more than the maximum tax deductible amount. The minimum required funding takes into consideration the value of plan assets and our pension obligation. Under ERISA, the qualified pension plan was 89% funded as of January 1, 2011 and is estimated to be 85% funded as of January 1, 2012. The assets in the plan are comprised of fixed income, equity, real estate, and short term investments. Future year contribution amounts are dependent on plan asset performance and plan actuarial assumptions. The required minimum contribution to our pension plan is $65 million in 2012, approximately $160 million in 2013 and approximately $160 million in 2014. The contributions to our other postretirement benefit plans for 2012, 2013 and 2014 are expected to be approximately $20 million each year. In addition, see further discussion in Critical Accounting Policies Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Accounting below. The $69 million long term income tax receivable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets represents the anticipated refunds related to an APS tax accounting method change approved by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in the third quarter of 2009. This amount is classified as long term, as cash refunds are not expected to be received in the next twelve months. Investing Cash Flows 2011 Compared with 2010 Pinnacle Wests consolidated net cash used for investing activities was $782 million in 2011, compared to $576 million in 2010, an increase of $206 million in net cash used. The increase in net cash used for investing activities is primarily due to an increase of $131 million in capital expenditures and a decrease of $126 million in net proceeds from the sales of our non utility businesses (see Note 21), partially offset by $55 million of proceeds from the sale of life insurance policies in 2011. 2010 Compared with 2009 Pinnacle Wests consolidated net cash used for investing activities was $576 million in 2010, compared to $705 million in 2009, a decrease of $129 million in net cash used. The decrease in net cash used for investing activities is primarily due to $100 million of proceeds from the sale of the district cooling business in June 2010 and the increase in proceeds from the sale of commercial real estate investments of $29 million. Capital Expenditures The following table summarizes the actual capital expenditures for 2009, 2010 and 2011 and estimated capital expenditures for the next three years: 62 Table of Contents Capital Expenditures (dollars in millions) Actual Estimated 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 APS Generation: Nuclear Fuel $ 64 $ 63 $ 85 $ 72 $ 80 $ 85 Renewables 6 225 149 218 198 Environmental 33 11 15 23 74 156 Four Corners Units 4 and 5 294 Other Generation 144 172 127 155 158 182 Distribution 246 232 238 269 268 267 Transmission 193 120 111 163 184 229 Other (a) 52 62 84 52 43 52 Total APS 732 666 885 1,177 1,025 1,169 Other 13 4 Total $ 745 $ 670 $ 885 $ 1,177 $ 1,025 $ 1,169 (a) Primarily information systems and facilities projects. Generation capital expenditures are comprised of various improvements to APSs existing fossil and nuclear plants. Examples of the types of projects included in this category are additions, upgrades and capital replacements of various power plant equipment, such as turbines, boilers and environmental equipment. Included under Renewables is the AZ Sun Program, which is a significant component of the increase in capital expenditures from 2010 to 2011. In addition, Renewables reflects capital funding from the 2012 RES implementation plan which was approved by the ACC on December 14, 2011. For purposes of this table, we have assumed the consummation of APSs purchase of SCEs interest in Four Corners Units 4 and 5, subject to ACC approval, and the subsequent shut down of Units 1 3, as discussed in the Overview section above. As a result, we included the $294 million purchase price plus adjustments under Generation and have not included environmental expenditures for Units 1 3. We are also monitoring the status of certain environmental matters, which, depending on their final outcome, could require modification to our environmental expenditures. Distribution and transmission capital expenditures are comprised of infrastructure additions and upgrades, capital replacements, and new customer construction. Examples of the types of projects included in the forecast include power lines, substations, and line extensions to new residential and commercial developments. Capital expenditures will be funded with internally generated cash and external financings, which may include issuances of long term debt and Pinnacle West common stock. Financing Cash Flows and Liquidity 2011 Compared with 2010 Pinnacle Wests consolidated net cash used for financing activities was $420 million in 2011, compared to $209 million in 2010, an increase of $211 million in 63 Table of Contents net cash used. The increase in net cash used for financing activities is primarily due to $78 million of long term debt repayments, net of issuances of long term debt (see below), and proceeds of $253 million from the issuance of equity in April 2010 (which was infused into APS), partially offset by $121 million lower repayments of short term borrowings at Pinnacle West. APSs net cash used for financing activities was $374 million in 2011, compared to net cash provided of $31 million in 2010, an increase of $405 million in net cash used. APSs increase in net cash used for financing activities is primarily due to $107 million of long term debt repayments, net of issuances of long term debt (see below), and proceeds of $253 million from the infusion of equity from Pinnacle West in April 2010. In addition, APS increased its dividend payment to Pinnacle West by $47 million in 2011. 2010 Compared with 2009 Pinnacle Wests consolidated net cash used for financing activities was $209 million in 2010, compared to $322 million in 2009, a decrease of $113 million in net cash used. The decrease in net cash used for financing activities is primarily due to lower repayments of short term borrowings in 2010 due to lower short term debt balances partially offset by lower net sources of equity and long term debt financing, including the absence of proceeds of $253 million from the issuance of equity in April 2010 (which was infused into APS), and APSs issuance of $500 million of unsecured senior notes in 2009. APSs net cash provided by financing activities was $31 million in 2010, compared to net cash used of $208 million in 2009, a decrease of $239 million in net cash used. The decrease in net cash used for financing activities is primarily due to $522 million of repayments of short term borrowings in 2009, partially offset by lower net sources of equity and long term debt financing, including the proceeds of $253 million from the infusion of equity from Pinnacle West in April 2010 and APSs issuance of $500 million of unsecured senior notes in 2009. Significant Financing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2011, Pinnacle Wests total dividend per share of common stock was $2.10 per share, which resulted in dividend payments of $222 million. On January 18, 2012, the Pinnacle West Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share of common stock, payable on March 1, 2012, to shareholders of record on February 1, 2012. On February 23, 2011, Pinnacle West entered into a $175 million term loan facility that matures February 20, 2015. Pinnacle West used the proceeds of the loan to repay its 5.91% $175 million Senior Notes. Interest rates are based on Pinnacle Wests senior unsecured debt credit ratings, or, if unavailable, its long term issuer ratings. As of December 31, 2011, $50 million of the $175 million term loan facility had been repaid. On August 25, 2011, APS issued $300 million of 5.05% unsecured senior notes that mature on September 1, 2041. The net proceeds from the sale of the notes were used along with cash on hand to repay at maturity APSs $400 million aggregate principal amount of 6.375% senior notes due October 15, 2011. On September 7, 2011, APS entered into a new letter of credit agreement supporting its approximately $27 million aggregate principal amount of Coconino County, Arizona Pollution Control Corporation Pollution Control Revenue Refunding Bonds (Arizona Public Service Company Navajo Project), 2009 Series B. The agreement expires September 22, 2016. 64 Table of Contents On December 8, 2011, APS extended a letter of credit agreement supporting its approximately $17 million aggregate principal amount of Coconino County, Arizona Pollution Control Corporation Pollution Control Revenue Bonds (Arizona Public Service Company Project), 1998. The agreement expires December 8, 2016. On January 10, 2012, APS issued $325 million of 4.50% unsecured senior notes that mature on April 1, 2042. The net proceeds from the sale along with other funds will be used to repay at maturity APSs $375 million aggregate principal amount of 6.50% senior notes due March 1, 2012. Available Credit Facilities Pinnacle West and APS maintain committed revolving credit facilities in order to enhance liquidity and provide credit support for their commercial paper programs. On November 4, 2011, Pinnacle West refinanced its $200 million revolving credit facility that would have matured in February 2013, with a new $200 million facility. The new revolving credit facility terminates in November 2016. Interest rates are based on Pinnacle Wests senior unsecured debt credit ratings. At December 31, 2011, the Pinnacle West credit facility was available to refinance indebtedness of the Company and for other general corporate purposes, including credit support for its $200 million commercial paper program. Pinnacle West has the option to increase the amount of the facility up to a maximum of $300 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders. At December 31, 2011, Pinnacle West had no outstanding borrowings under its credit facility, no letters of credit and no commercial paper borrowings. On February 14, 2011, APS refinanced its $489 million credit facility that would have matured in September 2011, and increased the size of the facility to $500 million. The new revolving credit facility terminates in February 2015. APS may increase the amount of the facility up to a maximum of $700 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders. APS will use the facility to refinance indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes. Interest rates are based on APSs senior unsecured debt credit ratings. On November 4, 2011, APS refinanced its $500 million revolving credit facility that would have matured in February 2013, with a new $500 million facility. The new revolving credit facility terminates in November 2016. APS may increase the amount of the facility up to a maximum of $700 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders. APS will use the facility to refinance indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes. Interest rates are based on APSs senior unsecured debt credit ratings. At December 31, 2011, APS had two credit facilities totaling $1 billion as described above. The facilities described above are available to support its $250 million commercial paper program, for bank borrowings, or for issuances of letters of credit. At December 31, 2011, APS had no borrowings outstanding under any of its credit facilities and no outstanding commercial paper. See Financial Assurances in Note 11 for a discussion of APSs letters of credit. 65 Table of Contents Other Financing Matters See Note 3 for information regarding the PSA approved by the ACC. Although APS defers actual retail fuel and purchased power costs to the extent those costs vary from the Base Fuel Rate on a current basis, APSs recovery or refund of the deferrals from or to its ratepayers, as appropriate, is subject to annual and, if necessary, periodic PSA adjustments. See Note 3 for information regarding the settlement related to the 2008 retail rate case, which includes ACC authorization and requirements of equity infusions into APS of at least $700 million by December 31, 2014 ($253 million of which was infused into APS from proceeds of a Pinnacle West equity issuance in 2010). See Note 18 for information related to the change in our margin accounts. Debt Provisions Pinnacle Wests and APSs debt covenants related to their respective bank financing arrangements include maximum debt to capitalization ratios. Pinnacle West and APS comply with this covenant. For both Pinnacle West and APS, this covenant requires that the ratio of consolidated debt to total consolidated capitalization not exceed 65%. At December 31, 2011, the ratio was approximately 47% for Pinnacle West and 46% for APS. Failure to comply with such covenant levels would result in an event of default which, generally speaking, would require the immediate repayment of the debt subject to the covenants and could cross default other debt. See further discussion of cross default provisions below. Neither Pinnacle Wests nor APSs financing agreements contain rating triggers that would result in an acceleration of the required interest and principal payments in the event of a rating downgrade. However, our bank credit agreements contain a pricing grid in which the interest rates we pay for borrowings thereunder are determined by our current credit ratings. All of Pinnacle Wests loan agreements contain cross default provisions that would result in defaults and the potential acceleration of payment under these loan agreements if Pinnacle West or APS were to default under certain other material agreements. All of APSs bank agreements contain cross default provisions that would result in defaults and the potential acceleration of payment under these bank agreements if APS were to default under certain other material agreements. Pinnacle West and APS do not have a material adverse change restriction for credit facility borrowings. See Note 6 for further discussions of liquidity matters. Credit Ratings The ratings of securities of Pinnacle West and APS as of February 15, 2012 are shown below. We are disclosing these credit ratings to enhance understanding of our cost of short term and long term capital and our ability to access the markets for liquidity and long term debt. The ratings reflect the respective views of the rating agencies, from which an explanation of the significance of their ratings may be obtained. There is no assurance that these ratings will continue for any given period of time. The ratings may be revised or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies if, in their respective judgments, circumstances so warrant. Any downward revision or withdrawal may adversely affect the market price of Pinnacle Wests or APSs securities and or result in an increase in the cost of, or limit access to, capital. Such revisions may also result in substantial additional cash or other collateral requirements related to certain derivative instruments, insurance policies, natural gas transportation, 66 Table of Contents fuel supply, and other energy related contracts. At this time, we believe we have sufficient liquidity to cover a downward revision to our credit ratings. Moodys Standard & Poors Fitch Pinnacle West Corporate credit rating Baa3 BBB BBB Commercial paper P 3 A 2 F3 Outlook Stable Positive Stable APS Senior unsecured Baa2 BBB BBB Secured lease obligation bonds Baa2 BBB BBB Corporate credit rating Baa2 BBB BBB Commercial paper P 2 A 2 F3 Outlook Stable Positive Stable Off Balance Sheet Arrangements See Note 20 for a discussion of the impacts on our financial statements of consolidating certain VIEs. Guarantees and Surety Bonds Pinnacle West sold its investment in APSES on August 19, 2011. Upon the closing of the sale, Pinnacle West was released from its parental guarantee and surety bond obligations related to the APSES business. Pinnacle West has also issued parental guarantees and surety bonds for APS which were not material at December 31, 2011. 67 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes Pinnacle Wests consolidated contractual requirements as of December 31, 2011 (dollars in millions): 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total Long term debt payments, including interest: (a) APS $ 666 $ 952 $ 924 $ 2,846 $ 5,388 Pinnacle West 3 6 126 135 Total long term debt payments, including interest and capital lease obligations 669 958 1,050 2,846 5,523 Fuel and purchased power commitments (b) 449 1,009 1,026 6,558 9,042 Renewable energy credits (c) 58 65 64 388 575 Purchase obligations (d) 131 75 12 265 483 Nuclear decommissioning funding requirements 17 34 20 71 142 Noncontrolling interests 11 37 35 83 Operating lease payments 21 33 15 23 92 Total contractual commitments $ 1,356 $ 2,211 $ 2,222 $ 10,151 $ 15,940 (a) The long term debt matures at various dates through 2041 and bears interest principally at fixed rates. Interest on variable rate long term debt is determined by using average rates at December 31, 2011 (see Note 6). (b) Our fuel and purchased power commitments include purchases of coal, electricity, natural gas, renewable energy and nuclear fuel (see Notes 3 and 11). (c) Contracts to purchase renewable energy credits in compliance with the RES. (d) These contractual obligations include commitments for capital expenditures and other obligations. These amounts do not include the purchase of SCEs interest in Four Corners Units 4 and 5 due to additional approvals required. See discussion in Overview. This table excludes $136 million in unrecognized tax benefits because the timing of the future cash outflows is uncertain. This table also excludes approximately $65 million, $160 million and $160 million in estimated minimum pension contributions for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively (see Note 8). CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES In preparing the financial statements in accordance with GAAP, management must often make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements and during the reporting period. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and actual results could differ from those estimates. We consider the following accounting policies to be our most critical because of the uncertainties, judgments and complexities of the underlying accounting standards and operations involved. 68 Table of Contents Regulatory Accounting Regulatory accounting allows for the actions of regulators, such as the ACC and the FERC, to be reflected in our financial statements. Their actions may cause us to capitalize costs that would otherwise be included as an expense in the current period by unregulated companies. Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that have been deferred because they are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent expected future costs that have already been collected from customers. Management continually assesses whether our regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory environment changes and recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction. This determination reflects the current political and regulatory climate in the state and is subject to change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the assets would be written off as a charge in current period earnings. We had $1.4 billion of regulatory assets and $826 million of regulatory liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011. Included in the balance of regulatory assets at December 31, 2011 is a regulatory asset of $1.0 billion for pension and other postretirement benefits. This regulatory asset represents the future recovery of these costs through retail rates as these amounts are charged to earnings. If these costs are disallowed by the ACC, this regulatory asset would be charged to OCI and result in lower future earnings. See Notes 1 and 3 for more information. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Accounting Changes in our actuarial assumptions used in calculating our pension and other postretirement benefit liability and expense can have a significant impact on our earnings and financial position. The most relevant actuarial assumptions are the discount rate used to measure our liability and net periodic cost, the expected long term rate of return on plan assets used to estimate earnings on invested funds over the long term, and the assumed healthcare cost trend rates. We review these assumptions on an annual basis and adjust them as necessary. The following chart reflects the sensitivities that a change in certain actuarial assumptions would have had on the December 31, 2011 reported pension liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and our 2011 reported pension expense, after consideration of amounts capitalized or billed to electric plant participants, on Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Statements of Income (dollars in millions): Increase (Decrease) Actuarial Assumption (a) Impact on Pension Liability Impact on Pension Expense Discount rate: Increase 1% $ (296 ) $ (10 ) Decrease 1% 333 10 Expected long term rate of return on plan assets: Increase 1% (8 ) Decrease 1% 8 69 Table of Contents (a) Each fluctuation assumes that the other assumptions of the calculation are held constant while the rates are changed by one percentage point. The following chart reflects the sensitivities that a change in certain actuarial assumptions would have had on the December 31, 2011 reported other postretirement benefit obligation on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and our 2011 reported other postretirement benefit expense, after consideration of amounts capitalized or billed to electric plant participants, on Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Statements of Income (dollars in millions): Increase (Decrease) Actuarial Assumption (a) Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Obligation Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Expense Discount rate: Increase 1% $ (160 ) $ (7 ) Decrease 1% 189 8 Health care cost trend rate (b): Increase 1% 187 11 Decrease 1% (148 ) (9 ) Expected long term rate of return on plan assets pretax: Increase 1% (2 ) Decrease 1% 2 (a) Each fluctuation assumes that the other assumptions of the calculation are held constant while the rates are changed by one percentage point. (b) This assumes a 1% change in the initial and ultimate health care cost trend rate. See Note 8 for further details about our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Derivative Accounting Derivative accounting requires evaluation of rules that are complex and subject to varying interpretations. Our evaluation of these rules, as they apply to our contracts, determines whether we use accrual accounting (for derivative instruments designated as normal) or fair value (mark to market) accounting. Mark to market accounting requires that changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recognized periodically in income unless certain hedge criteria are met. When a derivative instrument qualifies as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of changes in the fair value is recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) and the ineffective portion is recognized in current earnings. See Market Risks Commodity Price Risk below for quantitative analysis. See Fair Value Measurements below for additional information on valuation. See Note 1 for discussion on accounting policies and Note 18 for a further discussion on derivative accounting. 70 Table of Contents Fair Value Measurements We account for derivative instruments, investments held in our nuclear decommissioning trust, certain cash equivalents and plan assets held in our retirement and other benefit plans at fair value on a recurring basis. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. We use inputs, or assumptions that market participants would use, to determine fair market value. The significance of a particular input determines how the instrument is classified in a fair value hierarchy. We utilize valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The determination of fair value sometimes requires subjective and complex judgment. Our assessment of the inputs and the significance of a particular input to fair value measurement may affect the valuation of the instruments and their placement within a fair value hierarchy. Actual results could differ from our estimates of fair value. See Note 1 for discussion on accounting policies and Note 14 for further fair value measurement discussion. OTHER ACCOUNTING MATTERS See Note 2 for discussion regarding the adoption of amended accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2012 relating to fair value measurements and disclosures, and the presentation of comprehensive income. MARKET AND CREDIT RISKS Market Risks Our operations include managing market risks related to changes in interest rates, commodity prices and investments held by our nuclear decommissioning trust fund. Interest Rate and Equity Risk We have exposure to changing interest rates. Changing interest rates will affect interest paid on variable rate debt and the market value of fixed income securities held by our nuclear decommissioning trust fund (see Note 14). The nuclear decommissioning trust fund also has risks associated with the changing market value of its investments. Nuclear decommissioning costs are recovered in regulated electricity prices. The tables below present contractual balances of our consolidated long term and short term debt at the expected maturity dates as well as the fair value of those instruments on December 31, 2011 and 2010. The interest rates presented in the tables below represent the weighted average interest rates as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollars in thousands): 71 Table of Contents Pinnacle West Consolidated Variable Rate Long Term Debt Fixed Rate Long Term Debt Interest Interest 2011 Rates Amount Rates Amount 2012 $ 6.41 % $ 477,435 2013 4.94 % 122,828 2014 5.91 % 502,274 2015 1.79 % 125,000 4.79 % 313,420 2016 0.09 % 43,580 4.98 % 314,000 Years thereafter 6.49 % 1,605,150 Total $ 168,580 $ 3,335,107 Fair value $ 167,018 $ 3,758,811 Short Term Debt Variable Rate Long Term Debt Fixed Rate Long Term Debt Interest Interest Interest 2010 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount 2011 0.84 % $ 16,600 0.32 % $ 26,710 6.32 % $ 605,169 2012 6.41 % 477,435 2013 0.32 % 16,870 4.94 % 122,828 2014 5.91 % 502,274 2015 4.79 % 313,420 Years thereafter 6.69 % 1,619,150 Total $ 16,600 $ 43,580 $ 3,640,276 Fair value $ 16,600 $ 43,580 $ 3,869,681 The tables below present contractual balances of APSs long term debt at the expected maturity dates as well as the fair value of those instruments on December 31, 2011 and 2010. The interest rates presented in the tables below represent the weighted average interest rates as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollars in thousands): 72 Table of Contents APS Consolidated Variable Rate Long Term Debt Fixed Rate Long Term Debt Interest Interest 2011 Rates Amount Rates Amount 2012 $ 6.41 % $ 477,435 2013 4.94 % 122,828 2014 5.91 % 502,274 2015 4.79 % 313,420 2016 0.09 % 43,580 4.98 % 314,000 Years thereafter 6.49 % 1,605,150 Total $ 43,580 $ 3,335,107 Fair value $ 43,580 $ 3,758,811 Variable Rate Long Term Debt Fixed Rate Long Term Debt Interest Interest 2010 Rates Amount Rates Amount 2011 0.32 % $ 26,710 6.48 % $ 430,169 2012 6.41 % 477,435 2013 0.32 % 16,870 4.94 % 122,828 2014 5.91 % 502,274 2015 4.79 % 313,420 Years thereafter 6.69 % 1,619,150 Total $ 43,580 $ 3,465,276 Fair value $ 43,580 $ 3,693,276 Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the commodity price and transportation costs of electricity and natural gas. Our risk management committee, consisting of officers and key management personnel, oversees company wide energy risk management activities to ensure compliance with our stated energy risk management policies. We manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity instruments that may qualify as derivatives, including futures, forwards, options and swaps. As part of our risk management program, we use such instruments to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodities. The following table shows the net pretax changes in mark to market of our derivative positions in 2011 and 2010 (dollars in millions): 73 Table of Contents 2011 2010 Mark to market of net positions at beginning of year $ (239 ) $ (169 ) Recognized in earnings: Change in mark to market losses for future period deliveries (4 ) (7 ) Mark to market losses realized including ineffectiveness during the period 5 Increase in regulatory asset (1 ) (36 ) Recognized in OCI: Change in mark to market losses for future period deliveries (a) (95 ) (155 ) Mark to market losses realized during the period 117 123 Change in valuation techniques Mark to market of net positions at end of year $ (222 ) $ (239 ) (a) The changes in mark to market recorded in OCI are due primarily to changes in forward natural gas prices. The table below shows the fair value of maturities of our derivative contracts (dollars in millions) at December 31, 2011 by maturities and by the type of valuation that is performed to calculate the fair values. See Note 1, Derivative Accounting and Fair Value Measurements, for more discussion of our valuation methods. Source of Fair Value 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Years thereafter Total fair value Prices provided by other external sources $ (110 ) $ (44 ) $ (16 ) $ (1 ) $ $ $ (171 ) Prices based on models and other valuation methods (13 ) (8 ) (8 ) (9 ) (6 ) (7 ) (51 ) Total by maturity $ (123 ) $ (52 ) $ (24 ) $ (10 ) $ (6 ) $ (7 ) $ (222 ) The table below shows the impact that hypothetical price movements of 10% would have on the market value of our risk management assets and liabilities included on Pinnacle Wests Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollars in millions): 74 Table of Contents December 31, 2011 Gain (Loss) December 31, 2010 Gain (Loss) Price Up 10% Price Down 10% Price Up 10% Price Down 10% Mark to market changes reported in: Earnings Natural gas $ 1 $ (1 ) $ 1 $ (1 ) Regulatory asset (liability) or OCI (a) Electricity 5 (5 ) 13 (13 ) Natural gas 27 (27 ) 42 (42 ) Total $ 33 $ (33 ) $ 56 $ (56 ) (a) These contracts are hedges of our forecasted purchases of natural gas and electricity. The impact of these hypothetical price movements would substantially offset the impact that these same price movements would have on the physical exposures being hedged. To the extent the amounts are eligible for inclusion in the PSA, the amounts are recorded as either a regulatory asset or liability. Credit Risk We are exposed to losses in the event of non performance or non payment by counterparties. See Note 18 for a discussion of our credit valuation adjustment policy. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK See Market and Credit Risks in Item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 75 Table of Contents 
 
