ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Statements included in this discussion and analysis (or elsewhere in this annual report) which are not statements of historical fact are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, "forward looking statements" for purposes of the safe harbor provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Readers are cautioned that any such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) that the information is of a preliminary nature and may be subject to further and or continuing review and adjustment, (2) changes in the utility and nonutility regulatory environment, (3) changes in the economy, especially in areas served by the Companys subsidiaries, (4) the impact of competition from other energy suppliers, (5) growth opportunities for the Companys regulated and diversified subsidiaries, (6) the results of financing efforts, (7) changes in the Companys accounting policies, (8) weather conditions, especially in areas served by the Companys subsidiaries, (9) performance of and marketability of the Companys investments in telecommunications companies, (10) inflation, (11) changes in environmental regulations, (12) volatility in commodity natural gas markets and (13) the other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in the Companys periodic reports filed with the SEC. The Company disclaims any obligation to update any forward looking statements. COMPETITION Electric Operations After the energy supply and pricing problems experienced in California in 2000 and 2001, the efforts to restructure electric markets at the state level have slowed considerably. Many states that had considered legislation to restructure the electric industry have stopped such efforts or are proceeding more slowly. In South Carolina electric restructuring efforts remain stalled, and consideration of electric restructuring legislation is unlikely in 2002. Further, while several companies have announced their intent to site merchant generating plants in the Companys service territory, economic events, environmental concerns and other factors have slowed those efforts. Legislation or regulatory action at the Federal level, particularly as part of a larger energy policy initiative, may be considered in 2002. The Company is not able to predict whether any restructuring legislation or regulatory action will be enacted and, if it is, the conditions it will impose on utilities. SCANAs electric and gas utility, SCE&G, has undertaken a variety of initiatives aimed at preparing for a restructured electric market. These initiatives include obtaining accelerated recovery of electric regulatory assets, establishing open access transmission tariffs and selling bulk power to wholesale customers at market based rates. Marketing of services to commercial and industrial customers has increased significantly, and SCE&G has executed long term power supply contracts with a significant portion of its industrial customers. The Company believes that these actions, as well as numerous others that have been and will be taken, demonstrate its ability and commitment to succeed in the evolving operating environment. Gas Distribution Effective January 1, 2000 SCANA completed its acquisition of PSNC. The acquisition has been accounted for as a purchase. PSNC is operated as a wholly owned subsidiary of SCANA. As a result of the transaction, SCANA became a registered public utility holding company under PUHCA. Gas Transmission SCG, when operational, will provide interstate transportation services for natural gas to markets in southeastern Georgia and South Carolina. SCG will transport natural gas from interconnections with Southern Natural at Port Wentworth, Georgia, and from an import terminal owned by Southern LNG at Elba Island, near Savannah, Georgia. The endpoint of SCGs line will be at the site of SCE&Gs proposed natural gas fired generating station in Jasper County, South Carolina. In December 2001 SCG filed an application with FERC for a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity to acquire and build a pipeline from Elba Island, Georgia to Jasper County, South Carolina. The project has an anticipated in service date of November 2003. SCPCs plan to convert from a closed system to an open access transportation only system has been postponed indefinitely due to a number of factors, including the impact of the current economic downturn and the lack of consistent customer support for the proposed plan of system conversion. Retail Gas Marketing SCANA Energy, the Companys nonregulated retail gas division in Georgia, has maintained its position as the second largest marketer in Georgia, with an approximate 27 percent market share. Due to record high natural gas prices and cold winter temperatures, the Georgia Public Service Commission (GPSC) adopted emergency rules which prohibited gas marketers from disconnecting service to residential customers for non payment from mid January through March 2001. Customers were also permitted to switch marketers without first paying outstanding balances owed to their previous provider. As a result of this action, SCANA Energy increased its allowance for uncollectible accounts in the first quarter of 2001 and, to the extent permitted by other GPSC rules, has implemented more stringent credit policies. Since that time, the GPSC has remained extremely active in its review and oversight of the natural gas marketplace. In the summer of 2001 the GPSC placed restrictions on the length of time that customer deposits may be held by marketers and also called for other changes in the ways that marketers interact with their customers. Further, in September, Georgias Governor called for the formation of a task force to study the impact of natural gas deregulation. In January 2002 that task force reported its recommendations regarding further restructuring. The Georgia legislature is currently considering bills which, if enacted, would allow electric membership cooperatives to seek certification to market natural gas and provide for the establishment of a regulated alternative supplier of gas services. These actions raise concern as to the level of additional restrictions which may be placed on marketers, including SCANA Energy, and heighten the risks of SCANA Energys business efforts in that market. SCANA Energy and SCANAs other natural gas distribution, transmission and marketing segments maintain gas inventory and also utilize forward contracts and financial instruments, including futures contracts, to manage their exposure to fluctuating commodity natural gas prices. (See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) As a part of this risk management process, a portion of SCANAs projected natural gas needs has been purchased or otherwise placed under contract. This factor and others (e.g., the level of bad debts experienced) are, in the aggregate, used to establish retail pricing levels at SCANA Energy. As a result of the potential regulatory actions discussed above and other downward pricing pressures inherent in the competitive market, SCANA Energy may be unable to sustain its current levels of customers and or pricing, thereby reducing expected margins and profitability. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Companys cash requirements arise primarily from the operational needs of SCANA subsidiaries, the Companys construction program, the activities or investments of SCANAs subsidiaries and payment of dividends. The ability of SCANAs regulated subsidiaries to replace existing plant investment, as well as to expand to meet future demand for electricity and gas, will depend upon their ability to attract the necessary financial capital on reasonable terms. SCANAs regulated subsidiaries recover the costs of providing services through rates charged to customers. Rates for regulated services are generally based on historical costs. As customer growth and inflation occur and the regulated subsidiaries continue their ongoing construction programs, the Company expects to seek increases in rates. The Companys future financial position and results of operations will be affected by the regulated subsidiaries ability to obtain adequate and timely rate and other regulatory relief, if requested. The estimated primary cash requirements for 2002 and the actual primary cash requirements for 2001, excluding requirements for non nuclear fuel purchases, short term borrowings and dividends, are as follows: Millions of Dollars 2002 2001 Property additions and construction expenditures, net of AFC $677 $544 Nuclear fuel expenditures 6 4 Investments 18 46 Maturing obligations, redemptions and sinking and purchase fund requirements 714 317 Total $1,415 $911 Approximately 41 percent of total cash requirements was provided from internal sources in 2001 as compared to 39 percent in 2000. For the years 2003 2006 the Company has an aggregate of $1,034.3 million of long term debt and preferred stock maturing, which includes an aggregate of $576.3 million for SCE&G, $2.2 million of purchase or sinking fund requirements for SCE&Gs preferred stock and $21.4 million for PSNC. SCE&Gs long term debt maturities for the years 2003 2006 include approximately $93.8 million for sinking fund requirements all of which may be satisfied by deposit and cancellation of bonds issued upon the basis of property additions or bond retirement credits. These obligations and other commitments are tabulated below. Contractual Cash Obligations Less than After December 31, 2001 Total 1year 1 3 years 4 5 years 5 years (Millions of Dollars) Long term and short term debt (including interest) $5,364 $1,071 $1,217 $399 $2,677 Preferred stock sinking funds 11 1 2 1 7 Capital leases 3 1 2 Operating leases 90 17 37 19 17 Other commercial commitments 1,025 509 305 30 181 Included in other commercial commitments are estimated obligations under forward contracts for natural gas purchases. Certain of these contracts relate to regulated gas businesses; therefore, the effects of such contracts on gas costs are reflected in gas rates. The forward contracts for natural gas purchases include customary "make whole" or default provisions, but are not considered to be "take or pay" contracts. In addition to these commercial commitments, the Company is party to certain New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) futures contracts for which any unfavorable market movements have already been funded in cash. These derivatives are accounted for as cash flow hedges under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133 and their effects are reflected within other comprehensive income until such time as underlying transactions occur. The Company anticipates that its contractual cash obligations will be met through internally generated funds and the incurrence of additional short term and long term indebtedness. Sales of additional equity securities may also occur. The Company expects that it has or can obtain adequate sources of financing to meet its projected cash requirements for the foreseeable future. Financing Limits and Related Matters The Companys issuance of various securities including long term and short term debt is subject to customary approval or authorization by state and Federal regulatory bodies including state public service commissions, the SEC and FERC. The following paragraphs describe the financing programs currently utilized by the Company. SCANA Corporation SCANA has in effect a medium term note program for the issuance from time to time of unsecured medium term debt securities. While issuance of these securities requires customary approvals discussed above, the Indenture under which they are issued contains no specific limit on the amount which may be issued. At December 31, 2001 SCANA had $163 million of unused authorized lines of credit, of which $50 million was committed and the remainder was uncommitted. Amounts outstanding under SCANAs lines of credit totaled $0 and $85 million at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. South Carolina Electric & Gas Company SCE&G is subject to the jurisdiction of the SCPSC as to retail electric, gas and transit rates, service, accounting, issuance of securities (other than short term promissory notes) and other matters. SCE&Gs First and Refunding Mortgage Bond Indenture, dated April 1, 1945 (Old Mortgage), contains provisions prohibiting the issuance of additional bonds thereunder (Class A Bonds) unless net earnings (as therein defined) for 12 consecutive months out of the 18 months prior to the month of issuance are at least twice the annual interest requirements on all Class A Bonds to be outstanding (Bond Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2001 the Bond Ratio was 5.77. The Old Mortgage allows the issuance of Class A Bonds up to an additional principal amount equal to (i) 70 percent of unfunded net property additions (which unfunded net property additions totaled approximately $1,759 million at December 31, 2001), (ii) retirements of Class A Bonds (which retirement credits totaled $44.9 million at December 31, 2001), and (iii) cash on deposit with the Trustee. SCE&G is also subject to a bond indenture dated April 1, 1993 (New Mortgage) covering substantially all of its electric properties under which its future mortgage backed debt (New Bonds) will be issued. New Bonds are issued under the New Mortgage on the basis of a like principal amount of Class A Bonds issued under the Old Mortgage which have been deposited with the Trustee of the New Mortgage. New Bonds will be issuable under the New Mortgage only if adjusted net earnings (as therein defined) for 12 consecutive months out of the 18 months immediately preceding the month of issuance are at least twice the annual interest requirements on all outstanding bonds (including Class A Bonds) and New Bonds to be outstanding (New Bond Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2001 the New Bond Ratio was 5.71. SCE&Gs Restated Articles of Incorporation prohibit issuance of additional shares of preferred stock without the consent of the preferred shareholders unless net earnings (as defined therein) for the 12 consecutive months immediately preceding the month of issuance are at least one and one half times the aggregate of all interest charges and preferred stock dividend requirements on all shares of preferred stock outstanding immediately after the proposed issue (Preferred Stock Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2001, the Preferred Stock Ratio was 1.83. Without the consent of at least a majority of the total voting power of SCE&Gs preferred stock, SCE&G may not issue or assume any unsecured indebtedness if, after such issue or assumption, the total principal amount of all such unsecured indebtedness would exceed ten percent of the aggregate principal amount of all of SCE&Gs secured indebtedness and capital and surplus; however, no such consent is required to enter into agreements for payment of principal, interest and premium for securities issued for pollution control purposes. At December 31, 2001 SCE&G had $250 million of unused authorized lines of credit under a credit agreement supporting the issuance of commercial paper. SCE&Gs commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2001 and 2000 was $114.7 million and $117.5 million, respectively. In addition, Fuel Company has a credit agreement for a maximum of $125 million with the full amount available at December 31, 2001. The credit agreement supports the issuance of short term commercial paper for the financing of nuclear and fossil fuels and sulfur dioxide emission allowances. Fuel Company commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2001 and 2000 was $50.1 million and $70.2 million, respectively. This commercial paper and amounts outstanding under the revolving credit agreement, if any, are guaranteed by SCE&G. Public Service Company of North Carolina, Incorporated PSNC has in effect a medium term note program for the issuance from time to time of unsecured medium term debt securities. At December 31, 2001 PSNC had $125 million unused authorized lines of credit under a credit agreement supporting the issuance of commercial paper. PSNC had no commercial paper outstanding on December 31, 2001. PSNCs commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2000 was $125 million. Financing Transactions and Other Information The following financing transactions have occurred since January 1, 2001: o On January 24, 2001 SCANA issued $202 million of two year floating rate notes maturing on January 24, 2003. The interest rate is reset quarterly based on three month LIBOR plus 110 basis points. Proceeds from the debt were used to reduce short term debt and for general corporate purposes. o On January 24, 2001 SCE&G issued $150 million of first mortgage bonds having an annual interest rate of 6.70 percent and maturing on February 1, 2011. The proceeds from the sale of these bonds were used to reduce short term debt and for general corporate purposes. o On February 16, 2001 PSNC issued $150 million of medium term notes having an annual interest rate of 6.625 percent and maturing on February 15, 2011. The proceeds were used to reduce short term debt and for general corporate purposes. o On May 9, 2001 SCANA issued $300 million of medium term notes maturing May 15, 2011 and bearing a fixed interest rate of 6.875 percent. SCANA also entered into an interest rate swap agreement, designated as a fair value hedge, to pay variable rate and receive fixed rate interest payments. The proceeds from the issuance of the medium term notes were used to refinance $300 million of bank notes originally issued to finance SCANAs acquisition of PSNC. The swap agreement was terminated and replaced with another swap agreement to pay variable rate and receive fixed rate interest payments, also designated as a fair value hedge, in August 2001. Approximately $6.5 million received upon the original swaps termination is being amortized over the term of the associated debt. o On December 19, 2001 PSNC entered into two interest rate swap agreements to pay variable rate and receive fixed rate interest payments on a combined notional amount of $44.9 million. These swaps were designated as fair value hedges of PSNCs $12.9 million, 10 percent senior debentures due 2004 and $32.0 million, 8.75 percent senior debentures due 2012. o On January 31, 2002 SCANA issued $250 million of medium term notes maturing February 1, 2012 and bearing a fixed interest rate of 6.25 percent. Also on January 31, 2002 SCANA issued $150 million of two year floating rate notes maturing on February 1, 2004. The interest rate on the floating rate notes is reset quarterly based on three month LIBOR plus 62.5 basis points. Proceeds from these issuances were used to refinance $400 million of two year floating rate notes that matured on February 8, 2002, which had been issued to finance SCANAs acquisition of PSNC. o On January 31, 2002 SCE&G issued $300 million of first mortgage bonds having an annual interest rate of 6.625 percent and maturing February 1, 2032. The proceeds from the sale of these bonds were used to reduce short term debt primarily incurred as a result of SCE&Gs construction program and to redeem its First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 8 7/8 percent Series due August 15, 2021. The Companys electric and natural gas businesses are seasonal in nature, with the primary demand for electricity being experienced during summer and winter and the primary demand for natural gas being experienced during winter. As a result of the significant increase during the latter half of 2000 in the cost to the Company of natural gas and the colder than normal weather experienced in December, the Company experienced significant increases in its working capital requirements, contributing to the need for the financings by SCANA and PSNC in early 2001 described above. The more recent borrowings were necessitated by the cash requirements of the construction program, including the projects described below. SCE&G is constructing a $256 million gas turbine generator project in Aiken County, South Carolina. Two combined cycle turbines will burn natural gas to produce 300 megawatts of new electric generation and use exhaust heat to replace coal fired steam that powers two existing 75 megawatt turbines at the Urquhart Generating Station. The turbine project is scheduled to be completed by June 2002. In October 1999 FERC notified SCE&G of its agreement with SCE&Gs plan to reinforce Lake Murray Dam in order to maintain the lake in case of an extreme earthquake. Construction for the project and related activities, which began in the third quarter of 2001, is expected to cost $250 million and be completed in 2005. Any costs incurred by SCE&G are expected to be recoverable through electric rates. In October 2001 SCE&G filed with the SCPSC its siting plans to construct an 875 megawatt generation facility in Jasper County, South Carolina, to supply electricity to its South Carolina customers. The facility will include three natural gas combustion turbine generators and one steam turbine generator. Construction of the $450 million facility is expected to begin in April 2002, with commercial operation in the summer of 2004. In connection with the facility, SCE&G has signed a 250 megawatt electric supply contract with North Carolina Electric Membership Corporation for a term of at least nine years beginning January 1, 2004. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Electric Operations The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (CAA) required electric utilities to reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (NOx) substantially by the year 2000. The Companys compliance with these reductions has been accomplished. The EPA has indicated that it will propose regulations by December 2003 for stricter limits on mercury and other toxic pollutants generated by coal fired plants. SCE&G and GENCO currently estimate that air emissions control equipment will require capital expenditures of $165 million over the 2002 2006 period to retrofit existing facilities, with increased operation and maintenance costs of approximately $1.8 million per year. To meet compliance requirements for the years 2007 through 2011, the Company anticipates additional capital expenditures of approximately $82 million. In October 1998 the EPA issued a final rule requiring 22 states, including South Carolina, to modify their state implementation plans to address the issue of NOx pollution. While not final, South Carolina has proposed NOx reductions that would require the Company to install pollution control equipment to reduce its NOx emissions. Capital expenditures will be required to comply with the NOx reductions and they are included in the cost figures above. The EPA has undertaken an aggressive enforcement initiative against the industry and the Department of Justice has brought suit against a number of utilities in Federal court alleging violations of the CAA. Prior to the suits, those utilities had received requests for information under Section 114 of the CAA and were issued Notices of Violation. The basis for these suits is the assertion by the EPA that maintenance activities undertaken by the utilities over the past 20 or more years constitute "major modifications" which would have required the installation of costly Best Available Control Technology (BACT). The Company and SCE&G have received and responded to Section 114 requests for information related to Canadys, Wateree and Williams Stations. The regulations under the CAA provide certain exemptions to the definition of "major modifications," including an exemption for routine repair, replacement or maintenance. The Company has analyzed each of the activities covered by the EPAs requests and believes each of these activities is covered by the exemption for routine repair, replacement and maintenance. The regulations also provide an exemption for an increase in emissions resulting from increased hours of operation or production rate and from demand growth. It is possible that the EPA will commence enforcement actions against SCE&G, and the EPA has the authority to seek penalties at the rate of up to $27,500 per day for each violation. The EPA also could seek installation of BACT (or equivalent) at the three plants. The Company believes that any assertions relative to the Companys and SCE&Gs compliance with the CAA would be without merit. However, if successful, such assertions could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, cash flows and results of operations. The Federal Clean Water Act, as amended, provides for the imposition of effluent limitations that require treatment for wastewater discharges. Under this Act, compliance with applicable limitations is achieved under a national permit program. Discharge permits have been issued for all and renewed for nearly all of SCE&Gs and GENCOs generating units. Concurrent with renewal of these permits, the permitting agency has implemented a more rigorous program in monitoring and controlling thermal discharges and strategies for toxicity reduction in wastewater streams. The Company has been developing compliance plans for these initiatives. Amendments to the Clean Water Act proposed in Congress include several provisions which, if passed, could prove costly to SCE&G and GENCO. These include, but are not limited to, limitations to mixing zones and the implementation of technology based standards. Gas Distribution The Company maintains an environmental assessment program to identify and evaluate current and former operations sites that could require environmental cleanup. As site assessments are initiated, estimates are made of the amount of expenditures, if any, deemed necessary to investigate and clean up each site. These estimates are refined as additional information becomes available; therefore, actual expenditures could differ significantly from the original estimates. Amounts estimated and accrued to date for site assessments and cleanup relate to regulated operations and are deferred and amortized with recovery provided through rates. Deferred amounts for SCE&G, net of amounts previously recovered through rates and insurance settlements, totaled $24.4 million and $20.2 million at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The deferral includes the estimated costs associated with the following matters. o In September 1992 the EPA notified SCE&G, among others, of its potential liability for the investigation and cleanup of the Calhoun Park area site in Charleston, South Carolina. This site encompasses approximately 30 acres and includes properties which were locations for various industrial operations, including one of SCE&Gs decommissioned MGPs. Field work at the site began in November 1993 and has required the submission of several investigative reports and the implementation of several work plans. In September 2000 SCE&G was notified by the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control (DHEC) that benzene contamination was detected in the intermediate aquifer on surrounding properties of the Calhoun Park area site. The EPA required that SCE&G conduct a focused Remedial Investigation/Feasibility Study on the intermediate aquifer, which was completed in June 2001. The EPA expects to issue a Record of Decision dealing with the intermediate aquifer and sediments in June 2002. SCE&G anticipates that major remediation activities will be completed in 2003, with certain monitoring activities continuing until 2007. As of December 31, 2001, SCE&G has spent approximately $15.8 million to remediate the Calhoun Park area site. Total remediation costs are estimated to be $21.9 million. o SCE&G owns three other decommissioned MGP sites in South Carolina which contain residues of by product chemicals. Two of these sites are currently being remediated under work plans approved by DHEC. SCE&G is continuing to investigate the remaining site and is monitoring the nature and extent of residual contamination. SCE&G anticipates that major remediation activities for these three sites will be completed between 2003 2005. SCE&G has spent approximately $2.0 million related to these sites, and expects to incur an additional $6.0 million. In addition, PSNC owns, or has owned, all or portions of seven sites in North Carolina on which MGPs were formerly operated. Intrusive investigation (including drilling, sampling and analysis) has begun at two sites and the remaining sites have been evaluated using historical records and observations of current site conditions. These evaluations have revealed that MGP residuals are present or suspected at several of the sites. PSNC estimates that the cost to remediate the sites would range between $11.3 million and $21.9 million. The estimated cost range has not been discounted to present value. PSNCs associated actual costs for these sites will depend on a number of factors, such as actual site conditions, third party claims and recoveries from other PRPs. At December 31, 2001 PSNC has recorded a liability and associated regulatory asset of $9.1 million, which reflects the minimum amount of the range, net of shared cost recovery expected from other PRPs and expenditures for work completed. Amounts incurred to date are approximately $1.1 million. Management believes that all MGP cleanup costs incurred will be recoverable through gas rates. REGULATORY MATTERS STATE Regulated public utilities are allowed to record as assets some costs that would be expensed by other enterprises. If deregulation or other changes in the regulatory environment occur, the Company may no longer be eligible to apply this accounting treatment and may be required to eliminate such regulatory assets from its balance sheet. Although the potential effects of deregulation cannot be determined at present, discontinuation of the accounting treatment could have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations in the period the write off would be recorded. It is expected that cash flows and the financial position of the Company would not be materially affected by the discontinuation of the accounting treatment. The Company reported approximately $244 million and $100 million of regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively, including amounts recorded for deferred income tax assets and liabilities of approximately $142 million and $76 million, respectively, on its balance sheet at December 31, 2001. The Companys generation assets would be exposed to considerable financial risks in a deregulated electric market. If market prices for electric generation do not produce adequate revenue streams and the enabling legislation or regulatory actions do not provide for recovery of the resulting stranded costs, the Company could be required to write down its investment in these assets. The Company cannot predict whether any write downs will be necessary and, if they are, the extent to which they would adversely affect the Companys results of operations in the period in which they would be recorded. As of December 31, 2001 the Companys net investment in fossil/hydro and nuclear generation assets was $1,559.7 million and $572.9 million, respectively. South Carolina Electric & Gas Company SCE&G is subject to the jurisdiction of the SCPSC as to retail electric, gas and transit rates, service, accounting, issuance of securities (other than short term promissory notes) and other matters. Electric On April 24, 2001 the SCPSC approved SCE&Gs request to increase the fuel component of rates charged to electric customers from 1.330 cents per kilowatt hour to 1.579 cents per kilowatt hour. The increase reflects higher fuel costs projected for the period May 2001 through April 2002. The increase also provides recovery over a two year period of under collected actual fuel costs through April 2001, including short term purchased power costs necessitated by outages at two of SCE&Gs base load generating plants in winter 2000 2001. The new rates were effective as of the first billing cycle in May 2001. On September 14, 1999 the SCPSC approved an accelerated capital recovery plan for SCE&Gs Cope Generating Station. The plan was implemented beginning January 1, 2000 for a three year period. The SCPSC approved an accelerated capital recovery methodology wherein SCE&G may increase depreciation of its Cope Generating Station in excess of amounts that would be recorded based upon currently approved depreciation rates. The amount of the accelerated depreciation will be determined by SCE&G based on the level of revenues and operating expenses, not to exceed $36 million annually without the approval of the SCPSC. Any unused portion of the $36 million in any given year may be carried forward for possible use in the following year. As of December 31, 2001, no accelerated depreciation has been recorded. The accelerated capital recovery plan will be accomplished through existing customer rates. On January 9, 1996 the SCPSC authorized a return on common equity of 12.0 percent. The SCPSC also approved establishment of a Storm Damage Reserve Account capped at $50 million to be collected through rates over a ten year period. Additionally, the SCPSC approved accelerated amortization of a significant portion of SCE&Gs electric regulatory assets (excluding deferred income tax assets) and the remaining transition obligation for postretirement benefits other than pensions, which enabled SCE&G to recover the balances as of the end of the year 2000. Gas SCE&Gs rates are established using a cost of gas component approved by the SCPSC which may be modified periodically to reflect changes in the price of natural gas purchased by SCE&G. SCE&Gs cost of gas component in effect during the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 was as follows: Rate Per Therm Effective Date Rate Per Therm Effective Date $.993 January February 2001 $.543 January July 2000 $.793 March October 2001 $.688 August October 2000 $.596 November December 2001 $.782 November December 2000 On July 5, 2000 the SCPSC approved SCE&Gs request to implement lower depreciation rates for its gas operations. The new rates were effective retroactively to January 1, 2000 and resulted in a reduction in annual depreciation expense of approximately $2.9 million. The retroactive effect was recorded in the second quarter of 2000. In 1994 the SCPSC issued an order approving SCE&Gs request to recover through a billing surcharge to its gas customers the costs of environmental cleanup at the sites of former MGPs. The billing surcharge is subject to annual review and provides for the recovery of substantially all actual and projected site assessment and cleanup costs and environmental claims settlements for SCE&Gs gas operations that had previously been deferred. In October 2001, as a result of the annual review, the SCPSC approved SCE&Gs request to increase the billing surcharge from 1.1 cents per therm to 3.0 cents per therm, which is intended to provide for the recovery, prior to the end of the year 2005, of the balance remaining at December 31, 2001 of $24.4 million. Transit In September 1992 the SCPSC issued an order granting SCE&Gs request for a $.25 increase in transit fares from $.50 to $.75 in Columbia, South Carolina; however, the SCPSC also required $.40 fares for low income customers and denied SCE&Gs request for certain bus route and schedule changes. The new rates were placed into effect in October 1992. After several appeals and petitions for reconsideration to the Circuit Court and the Supreme Court by the various parties, on September 27, 2000 the SCPSC issued an order granting certain relief requested by SCE&G. On September 29, 2000 the Consumer Advocate filed a motion with the SCPSC for a stay of this order. On October 3, 2000 the SCPSC accepted the Consumer Advocates motion and issued a stay of its order. The Consumer Advocate and other intervenors have petitioned the Circuit Court for judicial review of the SCPSCs order granting relief. The Circuit Court has held in abeyance any appellate review pending the outcome of current negotiations on the transfer of the transit system from SCE&G to an unaffiliated regional transit authority. Public Service Company of North Carolina, Incorporated PSNC is subject to the jurisdiction of the NCUC as to gas rates, issuance of securities (other than notes with a maturity of two years or less or renewals of notes with a maturity of six years or less), accounting and other matters. PSNCs rates are established using a benchmark cost of gas approved by the NCUC, which may be modified periodically to reflect changes in the market price of natural gas and changes in the rates charged by PSNCs pipeline transporters. PSNC may file revised tariffs with the NCUC coincident with these changes or it may track the changes in its deferred accounts for subsequent rate consideration. The NCUC reviews PSNCs gas purchasing practices annually. PSNCs benchmark cost of gas in effect during the years ended December 2001 and 2000 was as follows: Rate Per Therm Effective Date Rate Per Therm Effective Date $.690 January 2001 $.300 January 2000 $.750 February March 2001 $.265 February May 2000 $.650 April August 2001 $.350 June 2000 $.500 September October 2001 $.450 July September 2000 $.350 November December 2001 $.490 October December 2000 On April 6, 2000 the NCUC issued an order permanently approving PSNCs request to establish its commodity cost of gas for large commercial and industrial customers on the basis of market prices for natural gas. This mechanism allows PSNC to collect from its customers amounts approximating the amounts paid for natural gas. A state expansion fund, established by the North Carolina General Assembly in 1991 and funded by refunds from PSNCs interstate pipeline transporters, provides financing for expansion into areas that otherwise would not be economically feasible to serve. On December 30, 1999 PSNC filed an application with the NCUC to extend natural gas service to Madison, Jackson and Swain Counties, North Carolina. On June 29, 2000 the NCUC approved PSNCs requests for disbursement of up to $28.4 million from PSNCs expansion fund for this project. PSNC estimates that the cost of this project will be approximately $31.4 million. The Madison County portion of the project was completed at a cost of approximately $5.8 million, and customers began receiving service in July 2001. On December 7, 1999 the NCUC issued an order approving SCANAs acquisition of PSNC. As specified in the NCUC order, PSNC reduced its rates by approximately $1 million in each of August 2000 and August 2001, and agreed to a moratorium on general rate cases until August 2005. General rate relief can be obtained during this period to recover costs associated with materially adverse governmental actions and force majeure events. On February 22, 1999 the NCUC approved PSNCs application to use expansion funds to extend natural gas service into Alexander County and authorized disbursements from the fund of approximately $4.3 million. Most of Alexander County lies within PSNCs certificated service territory and did not previously have natural gas service. The project was completed at a cost of approximately $4.8 million, and customers began receiving natural gas service in March 2000. SCANA Energy Georgia See discussion at COMPETITION regarding the regulatory framework of the Companys business in the Georgia retail natural gas market. REGULATORY MATTERS FEDERAL Effective with its acquisition of PSNC, SCANA became a registered public utility holding company under PUHCA. SCANA and its subsidiaries are subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC as to financings, acquisitions and diversifications, affiliate transactions and other matters. The Companys regulated business operations were impacted by FERC Orders No. 636, 888 and 2000. Order No. 636 was intended to deregulate the markets for interstate sales of natural gas by requiring that pipelines provide transportation services that are equal in quality for all gas suppliers whether the customer purchases gas from the pipeline or another supplier. Orders No. 888 and 2000 require utilities under FERC jurisdiction that own, control or operate transmission lines to file nondiscriminatory open access tariffs that offer to others the same transmission service they provide to themselves and to submit plans for the possible formation of an RTO. In the opinion of the Company, it continues to be able to meet successfully the challenges of these altered business climates and does not anticipate any material adverse impact on the results of operations, cash flows, financial position or business prospects. As already noted, Order No. 2000 required utilities which operate electric transmission systems to submit plans for the possible formation of RTOs. In March 2001 FERC gave provisional approval to SCE&G and two other southeastern electric utilities to establish GridSouth Transco, LLC (GridSouth) as an independent regional transmission company, responsible for operating and planning the utilities combined transmission systems. In July 2001 FERC expressed its desire that utilities throughout the United States combine their transmission systems to create four large independent regional operators, one each in the Northeast, Southeast, Midwest and West. Accordingly FERC ordered mediation talks to take place between the utilities forming GridSouth and certain groups that had proposed other RTOs. These talks were mediated by an administrative law judge, who issued her nonbinding mediation report to FERC in September 2001. The report made recommendations related to the formation of a Southeast regional RTO. While FERC has not acted on the mediation report, and the timing or impact of future FERC orders related to RTOs cannot be predicted, SCE&G expects to be reimbursed or to otherwise recover costs it has incurred in connection with RTO formation. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Following are descriptions of the Companys accounting policies which are new or most critical in terms of reporting results of operations. SFAS 71 SCANAs regulated utilities are subject to the provisions of SFAS 71, which require them to record certain assets and liabilities that defer the recognition of expenses and revenues to future periods as a result of being rate regulated. Aside from other impacts which might be experienced as a result of deregulation or other significant changes in the regulatory environments of the utilities, SFAS 71 could cease to be applicable and the Company could be required to write off such regulatory assets and liabilities (see also COMPETITION). Provisions for bad debts / Allowances for doubtful accounts As of each balance sheet date, SCANA and its subsidiaries evaluate the collectibility of accounts receivable and record allowances for doubtful accounts based on estimates of the level of actual write offs which might be experienced. These estimates are based on, among other things, comparisons of the relative age of accounts and consideration of actual write off history. Investments in debt and equity securities SCANA and certain of its subsidiaries hold investments in marketable securities, some of which are subject to SFAS 115 mark to market accounting and some of which are considered cost basis investments for which determination of fair value historically has been considered impracticable. Equity holdings subject to SFAS 115 are categorized as "available for sale" and are carried at quoted market, with any unrealized gains and losses credited or charged to other comprehensive income within common equity on the Companys balance sheet. Debt securities are categorized as "held to maturity" and are carried at amortized cost. When indicated, and in accordance with its stated accounting policy, SCANA performs periodic assessments of whether any decline in the value of these securities to amounts below SCANAs cost basis is other than temporary. When other than temporary declines occur, write downs are recorded through operations, and new (lower) cost bases are established. During 2001, as a result of a determination that an other than temporary decline in value (an impairment) had occurred, SCANA wrote down its investments in ITC^DeltaCom in the amount of approximately $35 million (net of tax). Similarly, on March 1, 2002 the Company determined that the decline in value of its investment in DTAG to below its cost basis of $20.30 per share was other than temporary, and recorded an impairment loss of approximately $160 million (after tax). (See Note 16 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) SCANA also from time to time holds investments in joint ventures, partnerships or other equity method investees for which evaluation of the existence and quantification of "other than temporary" declines in value may be required. Whenever indicated these write downs are also recorded through earnings. During 2001 SCANA wrote down two such investments in the aggregate amount of $9 million (net of tax). Although SCANA invests in securities and business ventures, it does not hold investments in unconsolidated special purpose entities such as those described in SFAS 140, and it does not engage in off balance sheet financing or similar transactions other than incidental operating leases in the normal course of business, generally for office space, furniture and equipment. Goodwill amortization and impairment analysis SFAS 141, "Business Combinations," and SFAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," were issued during 2001. SFAS 141 will require all future acquisitions to be accounted for utilizing the purchase method. SCANA considers the amounts categorized by FERC as "acquisition adjustments" to be goodwill as defined in SFAS 142 and has ceased amortization of such amounts upon the adoption of SFAS 142 effective January 1, 2002. In 2001 the amount of such amortization expense recorded was $14 million. This amortization related to acquisition adjustments of approximately $466 million carried on the books of PSNC and approximately $40 million carried on the books of SCPC. As required by the provisions of SFAS 142, the Company is performing initial valuation analyses to determine whether these carrying amounts are impaired, and if so, the amount of any write down which might be recorded as the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle. As allowed by the Statement the Company will have completed the initial stage of those analyses by June 30, 2002. If any write downs are indicated by those analyses, they will be quantified and recorded by the end of 2002. Because the Company is in the early stages of these analyses the effect, if any, of the adoption of the impairment provisions of the Statement is not known; however, if write downs are considered necessary, they could be material to the Companys results of operations for 2002. Pension accounting SCANA follows SFAS 87 in accounting for its defined benefit pension plan. SCANAs plan is fully funded and as such, significant net pension income is reflected in the financial statements (see Results of Operations). SFAS 87 requires the use of several assumptions, the selection of which may have a large impact on the resulting benefit recorded. Among the more sensitive assumptions are those surrounding discount rates and returns on assets. Net pension income of $43.3 million recorded in 2001 reflects the use of an 8 percent discount rate and an assumed 9.5 percent long term return on plan assets. SCANA believes that these assumptions are, and that the resulting pension income amount is, reasonable. Were SCANA to have alternatively selected a discount rate of 7.5 percent and a rate of return on assets of 9 percent, the net pension income recorded in 2001 would have been reduced by approximately $6.2 million. Accounting for postretirement benefits other than pensions Similar to its pension accounting, SCANA follows SFAS 106 in accounting for its postretirement medical and life insurance benefits. This plan is unfunded, so no return on assets impacts the net expense recorded; however, the selection of discount rates can significantly impact the actuarial determination of net expense. SCANA used a discount rate of 8 percent and recorded a net SFAS 106 cost of $17.5 million for 2001. Were the selected discount rate to have been 7.5 percent, the expense would have been approximately $0.5 million higher. Derivatives Effective January 1, 2001 SCANA follows the provisions of SFAS 133 in accounting for its derivatives and hedging activities. Substantially all of SCANAs use of derivatives occurs in the normal course of its risk management processes and is generally confined to contracts which qualify for hedge accounting treatment under the provisions of SFAS 133. The Company is party to interest rate swaps and to NYMEX traded natural gas contracts. The Company values its NYMEX gas derivatives at fair value based on quoted market prices, and values an insignificant number (and value) of non exchange traded gas related derivatives using information provided by counterparties to those transactions or by reference to quoted market prices of listed contracts. The estimated fair value of interest rate swaps is similarly based on settlement amounts obtained from the counterparties. As a result of adopting SFAS 133 the Company recorded a credit of approximately $23.0 million, net of tax, as the effect of a change in accounting principle (transition adjustment) to other comprehensive income on January 1, 2001. This amount represents the reclassification of unrealized gains that were deferred and reported as liabilities at December 31, 2000. In the future all gains and losses related to qualifying cash flow hedges deferred in other comprehensive income will be reclassified to earnings at the time the hedged transactions affect earnings. SFAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations," provides guidance for recording and disclosing a liability related to the future obligation to retire an asset (such as a nuclear plant). The Company will adopt SFAS 143 effective January 1, 2003. The impact SFAS 143 may have on the Companys results of operations, cash flows or financial position has not been determined but could be material. The provisions of SFAS 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets," are effective January 1, 2002. This Statement requires that one accounting model be used for long lived assets to be disposed of by sale, whether previously held and used or newly acquired, and broadens the presentation of discontinued operations to include more disposal transactions. There was no impact on the Companys financial statements from the initial adoption of SFAS 144. AFFILIATE TRANSACTIONS SCANA and its consolidated affiliates engage in certain intercompany transactions, subject to the restrictions imposed by PUHCA. Among these transactions are the sale of gas to SCE&G by SCPC and the provision of administrative services to all members of the consolidated group by SCANA Services. In addition to these transactions and investment transactions discussed at "Other Matters," the Company has engaged in the following transactions with other entities considered to be affiliates. SCE&G has two equity method investments in partnerships involved in converting coal to alternate fuel, the use of which fuel qualifies for favorable Federal income tax treatment (tax credits). The aggregate investment in these partnerships as of December 31, 2001 is approximately $3 million, and through December 31, 2001, they had generated and passed through to SCE&G approximately $28 million in such tax credits. Under a plan approved by the SCPSC, any tax credits generated and ultimately passed through to SCE&G have been and will be deferred and used to offset defined capital expenditures such as those related to reduction of environmental emissions. OTHER MATTERS Radio Service Network SCI owns an 800 Mhz radio service network within South Carolina, and in June 2001, agreed to subcontract the operation and maintenance of its network to Motorola, Inc. (Motorola) for the period July 1, 2001 through March 31, 2002. SCI intends to sell the network to Motorola at a purchase price in excess of its carrying value. Claims and Litigation In 1999 an unsuccessful bidder for the purchase of the propane gas assets of SCANA filed suit against SCANA in Circuit Court seeking unspecified damages. The suit alleges the existence of a contract for the sale of assets to the plaintiff and various causes of action associated with that contract. The Company is confident in its position and intends to vigorously defend the lawsuit. The Company does not believe that the resolution of this issue will have a material impact on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. SCANA and Westvaco each own a 50 percent interest in Cogen South LLC (Cogen). Cogen built and operates a cogeneration facility in North Charleston, South Carolina. On September 10, 1998 the contractor in charge of construction filed suit in Circuit Court alleging that it incurred construction cost overruns relating to the facility and that the construction contract provides for recovery of these costs. In addition to Cogen, Westvaco, SCE&G and SCANA were named as defendants in the suit. Cogen filed a separate suit against the contractor for delay and performance issues. The suits were combined and the contractor brought the manufacturer of the generator into the performance suit. In November 2001 a settlement was reached between all parties. Terms of the settlement are confidential, but the settlements impact on SCANA and SCE&Gs results of operations, cash flow and financial position is not material. The Company is also engaged in various other claims and litigation incidental to its business operations which management anticipates will be resolved without material loss to the Company. Telecommunications Investments At December 31, 2001 SCANA and SCH, a wholly owned, indirect subsidiary of SCANA, held investments in the marketable equity and debt securities of the following companies in the amounts noted in the table below. Unrealized Investee Held By Securities (a) Basis Market (b) Gain/(Loss) (c) (Millions of dollars) DTAG SCH 39.3 million ordinary shares $798.0 $664.3 ($133.7) ITC SCH 3.1 million common stock 5.8 n/a (d) SCH 645,153 series A convertible preferred stock 7.2 n/a (d) SCH 133,664 series B convertible preferred stock 4.0 n/a (d) ITC^DeltaCom SCH 5.1 million common stock 4.4 4.4 (e) SCH 1.5 million series A convertible preferred stock, convertible March 2002 2.6 2.6 (e) SCANA 5,113 series B 1 preferred stock convertible into 877,193 shares of common stock 0.8 0.8 (e) SCANA 6,667 series B 2 preferred stock convertible into 2,604,297 shares of common stock 2.3 2.3 (e) SCANA Warrants to purchase approximately 1.0 million shares of common stock 0.8 0.8 (e) Knology SCH 7.2 million series A preferred stock, convertible 5.0 (d) n/a upon an initial public offering and warrants to purchase 159,000 shares of series A preferred stock, convertible upon an initial public offering SCH 8.3 million series C preferred stock, convertible 25.0 (d) n/a upon an initial public offering Knology Broadband SCH $71,050,000 face amount, 11.875% Senior Discount Notes due 2007 64.9 (d) n/a (a) Convertible preferred stock is convertible into common stock at any time unless otherwise indicated. (b) As converted, based on market value of underlying common stock, where applicable. (c) Amounts are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes. (d) Market value not readily determinable. (e) Reflects write down for "other than temporary" impairment as discussed below. DTAG is an international telecommunications carrier. The Companys investment in DTAG was received in exchange for approximately 14.9 million shares of Powertel, Inc. (Powertel) which SCH owned prior to DTAGs acquisition of Powertel in May 2001. SCH recorded a non cash, after tax gain of $354.4 million as a result of the exchange. On March 1, 2002 the Company determined that the decline in value of its investment in DTAG to below its cost basis of $20.30 per share was other than temporary, and recorded an impairment loss of approximately $160 million (after tax). (See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) On March 21, 2002 the Company announced that SCH had sold 21 million ordinary shares of DTAG at a weighted average price of $14.82 per share through a series of market transactions between March 4, 2002 and March 21, 2002. The sales resulted in net after tax proceeds of approximately $250 million. ITC Holding Company (ITC) holds ownership interests in several Southeastern communications companies. ITC^DeltaCom is a fiber optic telecommunications provider and an affiliate of ITC. Knology, Inc. (Knology) is a broadband service provider of cable television, telephone and internet services. Knology is an affiliate of ITC. Knology Broadband, Inc. (Knology Broadband) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Knology and an affiliate of ITC. In the fourth quarter of 2001 the Company determined that the decline in value of its investment in ITC^DeltaCom (to below cost) was other than temporary. Accordingly the Company recorded an impairment charge of approximately $35.0 million (after tax). RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Earnings and Dividends Earnings per share of common stock and cash dividends declared for 2001, 2000 and 1999 were as follows: 2001 2000 1999 Earnings derived from: Continuing operations $2.15 $2.12 $1.39 Non recurring gains 3.42 .34 Investment impairment (.42) Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of taxes .28 Earnings per weighted average share $5.15 $2.40 $1.73 Cash dividends declared (per share) $1.20 $1.15 $1.32 o 2001 vs 2000 Earnings derived from continuing operations increased $.03, primarily as a result of improved results from retail gas marketing ($.03), improved results from energy marketing ($.09), completion of repairs at Summer Station in 2000 ($.04), a decrease in imputed interest expense related to the PSNC acquisition in 2000 ($.05) and other ($.02). These improvements were partially offset by a decrease in electric margin ($.11) and a decrease in regulated gas margin ($.09). o 2000 vs 1999 Earnings derived from continuing operations increased $0.73, primarily as a result of improved results from retail gas marketing ($.04 net earnings for 2000 compared to $.45 loss in 1999) and the acquisition of PSNC ($.20). In addition electric margin improved $.36 (see discussion at Electric Operations), regulated gas margin (excluding PSNC) improved $.07 and pension income increased $.05. These improvements were partially offset by increased interest expense of $.36, a charge for repairs at Summer Station ($.04) and other increases in operation and maintenance ($.04). Pension income recorded by the Company reduced operations expense by $22.6 million, $22.6 million and $17.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. In addition pension income increased other income by $12.7 million, $12.8 million and $10.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Effective July 1, 2000 the Companys pension plan was amended to provide a cash balance formula. The effect of this plan amendment was to reduce net periodic benefit income for the year ended December 31, 2000 by approximately $3.7 million. In 2001 the Company recognized a non recurring gain of $3.38 per share in connection with the sale of its investment in Powertel, which was acquired by DTAG in May 2001. The Company also recognized a gain of $.04 per share in connection with the sale of the assets of SCANA Security in March 2001. In 2001 the Company also recorded impairment charges related to investments in ITC^DeltaCom ($.34), a developer of micro turbine technology ($.04) and a lime production plant ($.04). In 2000 the cumulative effect of an accounting change resulted from the recording of unbilled revenues by SCANAs retail utility subsidiaries (see Note 2 of Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements). Non recurring gains resulted from the sale of retail propane assets ($.29) and telecommunications towers ($.05) in 1999. The Companys financial statements include the recording of an AFC. AFC is a utility accounting practice whereby a portion of the cost of both equity and borrowed funds used to finance construction (which is shown on the balance sheet as construction work in progress) is capitalized. An equity portion of AFC is included in nonoperating income and a debt portion of AFC is included in interest charges (credits) as noncash items, both of which have the effect of increasing reported net income. AFC represented approximately 3.0 percent of income before income taxes in 2001, 2.3 percent in 2000 and 2.4 percent in 1999. Electric Operations Electric Operations is comprised of the electric portion of SCE&G, GENCO and Fuel Company. Electric operations sales margins (including transactions with affiliates) for 2001, 2000 and 1999, excluding the cumulative effect of accounting change in 2000, were as follows: Millions of dollars 2001 2000 1999 Operating revenues $1,368.7 $1,343.8 $1,226.0 Less: Fuel used in generation (283.3) (294.9) (284.6) Purchased power (138.1) (82.5) (35.9) Margin $947.3 $966.4 $905.5 o 2001 vs 2000 Sales margin decreased primarily due to milder weather and the impact of the slowing economy, which was partially offset by customer growth and lower fuel costs. o 2000 vs 1999 Sales margin increased primarily due to more favorable weather and customer growth. Increases (decreases) from the prior year in megawatt hour (MWH) sales volume by classes, excluding volumes attributable to the cumulative effect of accounting change in 2000, were as follows: Classification 2001 % Change 2000 % Change Residential (170,509) (2.5%) 6.3% 396,179 Commercial (16,830) 6.0% 354,350 Industrial (317,659) (4.8%) 8.5% 524,969 Sales for resale (excluding interchange) (108,236) (8.8%) 2.8% 33,505 Other (18,927) (3.4%) 6.7% 34,676 Total territorial (632,161) (3.0%) 1,343,679 6.7% Negotiated Market Sales Tariff 207,984 10.0% 15.7% 264,257 Total (424,177) (2.0%) 1,607,936 7.4% o 2001 vs 2000 Sales volume decreased primarily due to milder weather and the impact of the slowing economy. o 2000 vs 1999 Sales volume increased primarily due to more favorable weather and customer growth. In March 2001 Summer Station returned to service after having been taken out of service on October 7, 2000 for a planned maintenance and refueling outage. During initial inspection activities, plant personnel discovered a small leak in a weld in a primary coolant system pipe. Repairs were completed and the integrity of the new welds was verified through extensive testing. The NRC was closely involved throughout this process and approved SCE&Gs actions, as well as the restart schedule. Also in April 2001 SCE&Gs 385 megawatt coal fired Cope Generating Station returned to service after having been taken out of service in January 2001 due to an electrical ground in the generator. The SCPSC has approved recovery of the cost of replacement power related to both of these outages through SCE&Gs fuel adjustment clause. Gas Distribution Gas Distribution is comprised of the local distribution operations of SCE&G and PSNC. Gas distribution sales margins (including transactions with affiliates) for 2001, 2000 and 1999, excluding the cumulative effect of accounting change in 2000, were as follows: Millions of dollars 2001 2000 1999 Operating revenues 793.6 $745.9 $239.0 Less: Gas purchased for resale 537.8) (486.3) (152.6) Margin 255.8 $259.6 $86.4 SCANA acquired PSNC effective January 1, 2000. Therefore the Companys sales for 1999 do not include PSNC. o 2001 vs 2000 Sales margin decreased primarily as a result of the slowing economy and increased competition with alternate fuels. o 2000 vs 1999 Sales margin increased primarily due to the acquisition of PSNC, which contributed $161.5 million, and improved margin at SCE&G due primarily to more favorable weather. Increases (decreases) from the prior year in dekatherm (DT) sales volume by classes, including transportation gas and excluding volumes attributable to the cumulative effect of accounting change in 2000, were as follows: Classification 2001 % Change 2000 % Change Residential (7,068,050) (18.1%) 27,211,306 230.2% Commercial (2,613,154) (10.0%) 14,493,448 123.9% Industrial (2,859,885) (12.7%) 4,484,199 25.0% Transportation gas (3,318,646) (10.5%) 29,523,281 * Sales for resale * * 882 407 Total (15,858,853) (13.3%) 75,712,641 174.2% *Not meaningful o 2001 vs 2000 Sales volume decreased due to the slowing economy and use of alternate fuels by industrial customers. o 2000 vs 1999 Sales volume increased primarily as a result of the acquisition of PSNC, which accounted for 72.6 million DTs. SCE&Gs sales volume increased approximately 2.0 million DTs due to colder weather and customer growth, which were partially offset by curtailments and use of alternate fuels by industrial customers. Gas Transmission Gas Transmission is comprised of SCPC. Gas transmission sales margins (including transactions with affiliates) for 2001, 2000 and 1999 were as follows: Millions of dollars 2001 2000 1999 Operating revenues $478.0 $489.0 $342.4 Less: Gas purchased for resale (434.1) (434.7) (295.1) Margin $43.9 $54.3 $47.3 o 2001 vs 2000 Sales margin decreased primarily as a result of decreased volume of sales to industrial customers due to competitive pricing of alternate fuels and a slowing economy, decreased volume of sales to electric generation due to milder weather and reduced margins in sales for resale as a result of milder weather. o 2000 vs 1999 Sales margin increased primarily as a result of increased contract and sales volumes from sales for resale and margin earned from industrial customers. Increases (decreases) from the prior year in DT sales volume by classes including transportation were as follows: Classification 2001 % Change 2000 % Change Commercial (422,070) (37.2%) 22,132 24.2% Industrial (101,275,260) (25.8%) (5,212,904) (11.7%) Transportation 7,250,560 32.1% 10,296 0.5% Sales for resale (95,295,980) (15.3%) 3,542,185 6.0% Total (189,742,750) (18.3%) (1,638,291) (1.6%) o 2001 vs 2000 Commercial and industrial volumes decreased due to increased gas to gas competition and the slowing economy. Transportation volumes increased due to increased gas to gas competition. Sales for resale volumes decreased due to milder weather. o 2000 vs 1999 Sales for resale volumes increased as a result of colder temperatures. The sales volume for industrial customers decreased due to decreased sales to electric generation facilities and decreased sales to other customers with alternate fuel sources. Retail Gas Marketing Retail Gas Marketing is comprised of SCANA Energy, a division of SCANA Energy Marketing, Inc., which operates in Georgias deregulated natural gas market. Retail gas marketing revenues and net income (loss) for 2001, 2000 and 1999 were as follows: Millions of dollars 2001 2000 1999 Operating revenues $628.1 $547.3 $206.6 Net income (loss) 7.6 4.4 (44.8) o 2001 vs 2000 Operating revenues increased due to cold weather and record high gas costs early in the year. Net income increased primarily as a result of increases in gross margins on gas sales. o 2000 vs 1999 Operating revenues increased as a result of customer growth, favorable weather and a successful gas supply and pricing strategy. Net income increased as a result of the increase in revenue and significant reductions in customer acquisition and advertising expenditures. Delivered volumes for 2001, 2000 and 1999 totaled approximately 76.7 million, 73.8 million and 40.9 million DT, respectively, which include interruptible volumes of approximately 40.7 million, 30.6 million and 18.9 million DT for the same periods, respectively. Energy Marketing Energy Marketing is comprised of the Companys non regulated marketing operations, excluding SCANA Energy. Energy marketing operating revenues and net income(loss) for 2001, 2000 and 1999 were as follows: Millions of dollars 2001 2000 1999 Operating revenues $438.9 $543.8 $223.3 Net income (loss) 2.6 (4.2) (3.9) o 2001 vs 2000 Operating revenues decreased primarily due to lower prices for natural gas in the latter part of the year and the closing of the Midwest and California offices. Net income increased primarily due to improved margins. o 2000 vs 1999 Operating revenues increased primarily due to increased prices for natural gas. Net loss increased primarily due to increased bad debts. Delivered volumes for 2001, 2000 and 1999 totaled approximately 75.3 million, 83.9 million and 103.7 million DT, respectively. The decrease in volumes for 2001 resulted from the closing of the Midwest and California offices and the decrease in volumes for 2000 resulted from the closing of the Houston office. Other Operating Expenses Increases in other operating expenses were as follows: Millions of dollars 2001 % Change 2000 % Change Other operation and maintenance $3.5 0.7% $66.1 16.1% Depreciation and amortization 7.2 3.3% 47.4 28.1% Other taxes 1.5 21.3% 10.6 10.3% Total $12.2 1.5% $124.1 18.2% o 2001 vs 2000 Other operation and maintenance expenses increased primarily as a result of increases in employee benefit costs. Depreciation and amortization increased primarily as a result of normal increases in utility plant. Other taxes increased primarily due to increased property taxes. o 2000 vs 1999 Other operating expenses increased primarily as a result of the acquisition of PSNC. This acquisition accounted for the following increases: other operation and maintenance ($67.5 million), depreciation and amortization ($41.9 million, of which $13.4 million is attributable to the amortization of the acquisition adjustment), and other taxes ($6.4 million). Apart from the PSNC acquisition, other operation and maintenance expense decreased $1.4 million due to pension income (see Earnings and Dividends), which was partially offset by increased maintenance costs for electric generating and distribution facilities. Depreciation and amortization increased $5.5 million primarily due to normal increases in utility plant. Other taxes increased $4.2 million primarily due to increased property taxes. Other Income Increases (decreases) in other income, excluding the equity component of AFC, were as follows: Millions of dollars 2001 % Change 2000 % Change Gain on sale of investments $545.3 * Gain on sale of assets 10.1 * $(64.8) (95.3%) Impairment of investments (61.9) * Other income 0.8 2.1% 18.6 96.4% Total $494.3 * $(46.2) (52.9%) *Not meaningful o 2001 vs 2000 Other income increased primarily as a result of the non recurring gain recognized in May 2001 in connection with the exchange of the Companys investment in Powertel for shares of DTAG, and the March 2001 gain on the sale of the assets of SCANA Security. These gains were partially offset by the impairments recorded related to investments in ITC^DeltaCom, a developer of micro turbine technology and a lime production plant. o 2000 vs 1999 Other income decreased primarily as a result of the sale in 1999 of nonregulated propane assets and telecommunications towers. Interest Expense Increases (decreases) in interest expense, excluding the debt component of AFC, were as follows: Millions of dollars 2001 % Change 2000 % Change Interest on long term debt, net $17.8 8.6% $73.8 55.8% Other interest expense (14.4) (58.8%) 10.7 77.5% Total $3.4 1.5% $84.5 57.9% o 2001 vs 2000 Interest expense increased primarily as a result of increased borrowings which was partially offset by declining variable interest rates, the Companys use of interest rate swap contracts to convert higher fixed rate debt to lower variable rate debt and a decrease in the weighted average interest rate on other long term and short term debt. o 2000 vs 1999 Interest expense increased primarily as a result of financing the acquisition of PSNC and related repurchase of SCANA shares ($46.0 million) and interest incurred on PSNC debt that was assumed as a result of the acquisition ($19.6 million). In addition, interest expense increased as a result of increased borrowings and increased weighted average interest rates on long term and short term borrowings. Income Taxes Income taxes increased approximately $163.8 million for the year 2001 compared to 2000 and increased approximately $29.7 million for the year 2000 compared to 1999. Changes in 2001 income taxes are primarily due to the recording of deferred income taxes in connection with the non recurring gain recorded in May 2001 arising from the exchange of the Companys investment in Powertel for shares of DTAG. Changes in 2000 income taxes are primarily due to changes in operating income. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK All financial instruments held by the Company described below are held for purposes other than trading. Interest rate risk The table below provides information about the Companys financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. December 31, 2001 Expected Maturity Date Millions of dollars Liabilities 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter Total Fair Value Long Term Debt: Fixed Rate ($) 38.3 298.5 187.0 182.0 162.8 1,728.0 2,596.6 2,602.8 Average Fixed Interest Rate 7.21 6.38 7.58 7.43 8.63 7.02 6.64 Variable Rate ($) 700.0 202.0 902.0 898.2 Average Variable Interest Rate 2.82 3.45 2.96 Interest Rate Swaps: Pay Variable/Receive Fixed ($) 12.9 332.0 344.9 1.2 Average Pay Interest Rate 7.82 2.96 3.15 Average Receive Interest Rate 10.0 6.21 6.35 December 31, 2000 Expected Maturity Date Millions of dollars Liabilities 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Thereafter Total Fair Value Long Term Debt: Fixed Rate ($) 40.9 337.3 297.2 186.3 182.0 1,267.4 2,311.1 2,232.2 Average Fixed Interest Rate 7.27 7.36 6.38 7.58 7.43 7.25 7.35 Variable Rate ($) 550.0 150.0 700.0 699.7 Average Variable Interest Rate 7.26 7.48 7.31 While a decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of debt, it is unlikely that events which would result in a realized loss will occur. In addition the Company has an investment in the 11.875 percent senior discount notes (due 2007) of a telecommunications company, the cost basis of which is approximately $64.9 million. As these notes are not actively traded, determination of their fair value is not practicable. Commodity price risk The table below provides information about the Companys financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in natural gas prices. Weighted average settlement prices are per 10,000 mmbtu. December 31, 2001 Expected Maturity in 2002 Expected Maturity in 2003 Millions of dollars Weighted Weighted Avg Avg Settlement Contract Fair Settlement Contract Fair Natural Gas Derivatives: Price Amount Value Price Amount Value Futures Contracts: Long ($) 2.63 119.3 76.0 3.26 3.0 2.6 Short ($) 2.64 1.6 1.1 December 31, 2000 Expected Maturity in 2001 Millions of dollars Weighted Avg Contract Fair Natural Gas Derivatives: Settlement Price Amount Value Futures Contracts: Long ($) 6.58 60.0 85.9 Short ($) 6.30 1.4 2.1 The Company uses derivative instruments to hedge forward purchases and sales of natural gas, which create market risks of different types. Instruments designated as cash flow hedges are used to hedge risks associated with fixed price obligations in a volatile market and risks associated with price differentials at different delivery locations. The basic types of financial instruments utilized are exchange traded instruments, such as NYMEX futures contracts or options and over the counter instruments such as swaps, which are typically offered by energy and financial institutions. Risk limits are established to control the level of market, credit, liquidity and operational/administrative risks assumed by the Company. The Companys Board of Directors has delegated the authority for setting market risk limits to the Risk Management Committee, which is comprised of members of senior management, the Companys Controller, the Senior Vice President of SCPC and the President of Energy Marketing. The Risk Management Committee provides assurance to the Board of Directors with regard to compliance with risk management policies and brings to the Boards attention any areas of concern. Written policies define the physical and financial transactions that are approved as well as the authorization requirements for transactions that are allowed. The NYMEX futures information above includes those financial positions of both Energy Marketing and SCPC. The ultimate effects of the hedging activities of SCPC are passed through to its customers through SCPCs fuel adjustment clauses. Equity price risk Investments in telecommunications companies equity securities are carried at their market value or, if market value is not readily determinable, at their cost. The Companys investments in such securities totaled $722.3 million at December 31, 2001. A temporary decline in value of ten percent would result in a $72.2 million reduction in fair value and a corresponding adjustment, net of tax effect, to the related equity account for unrealized gains/losses, a component of other comprehensive income. An other than temporary decline in value of ten percent would result in a $72.2 million reduction in fair value and a corresponding adjustment to net income, net of tax effect. 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Statements included in this discussion and analysis (or elsewhere in this annual report) which are not statements of historical fact are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, "forward looking statements" for purposes of the safe harbor provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Readers are cautioned that any such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) that the information is of a preliminary nature and may be subject to further and or continuing review and adjustment, (2) changes in the utility regulatory environment, (3) changes in the economy, especially in SCE&Gs service territory, (4) the impact of competition from other energy suppliers, (5) growth opportunities, (6) the results of financing efforts, (7) changes in SCE&Gs accounting policies, (8) weather conditions, especially in areas served by SCE&G, (9) inflation, (10) changes in environmental regulations and (11) the other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in SCE&Gs periodic reports filed with the SEC. SCE&G disclaims any obligation to update any forward looking statements. COMPETITION Electric Operations After the energy supply and pricing problems experienced in California in 2000 and 2001, the efforts to restructure electric markets at the state level have slowed considerably. Many states that had considered legislation to restructure the electric industry have stopped such efforts or are proceeding more slowly. In South Carolina electric restructuring efforts remain stalled, and consideration of electric restructuring legislation is unlikely in 2002. Further, while several companies have announced their intent to site merchant generating plants in SCE&Gs service territory, economic events, environmental concerns and other factors have slowed those efforts. Legislation or regulatory action at the Federal level, particularly as part of a larger energy policy initiative, may be considered in 2002. SCE&G is not able to predict whether any restructuring legislation or regulatory action will be enacted and, if it is, the conditions it will impose on utilities. SCE&G has undertaken a variety of initiatives aimed at preparing for a restructured electric market. These initiatives include obtaining accelerated recovery of electric regulatory assets, establishing open access transmission tariffs and selling bulk power to wholesale customers at market based rates. Marketing of services to commercial and industrial customers has increased significantly, and SCE&G has executed long term power supply contracts with a significant portion of its industrial customers. SCE&G believes that these actions, as well as numerous others that have been and will be taken, demonstrate its ability and commitment to succeed in the evolving operating environment. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES SCE&Gs cash requirements arise primarily from its operational needs, funding its construction program and payment of dividends to SCANA. The ability of SCE&G to replace existing plant investment, as well as to expand to meet future demand for electricity and gas, will depend upon its ability to attract the necessary financial capital on reasonable terms. SCE&G recovers the costs of providing services through rates charged to customers. Rates for regulated services are generally based on historical costs. As customer growth and inflation occur and SCE&G continues its ongoing construction program, SCE&G expects to seek increases in rates. SCE&Gs future financial position and results of operations will be affected by its ability to obtain adequate and timely rate and other regulatory relief, if requested. The estimated primary cash requirements for 2002 and the actual primary cash requirements for 2001, excluding requirements for non nuclear fuel purchases, short term borrowings and dividends, and including notes payable to affiliated companies, are as follows: Millions of dollars 2002 2001 Property additions and construction expenditures, net of AFC $506 $425 Nuclear fuel expenditures 6 4 Investments 11 7 Maturing obligations, redemptions and sinking and purchase fund requirements 5 5 Total $528 $441 Approximately 68 percent of total cash requirements was provided from internal sources in 2001 as compared to 63 percent in 2000. For the years 2003 2006, SCE&G has an aggregate of $578.4 million of long term debt and preferred stock maturing, which includes an aggregate of $576.2 million for debt and $2.2 million of purchase or sinking fund requirements for SCE&Gs preferred stock. SCE&Gs long term debt maturities for the years 2003 2006 include approximately $93.8 million for sinking fund requirements all of which may be satisfied by deposit and cancellation of bonds issued upon the basis of property additions or bond retirement credits. These obligations and other commitments are tabulated below. Contractual Cash Obligations Less than After December 31, 2001 Total 1year 1 3 years 4 5 years 5 years (Millions of dollars) Long term and short term debt (including interest) $2,887 $275 $634 $275 $1,703 Preferred stock sinking funds 11 1 2 1 7 Operating leases 78 12 31 18 17 Other commercial commitments 381 167 203 1 10 Included in other commercial commitments are estimated obligations for coal supply purchases. Actual purchases are included in fuel used in electric generation and recovered through electric rates. SCE&G anticipates that its contractual cash obligations will be met through internally generated funds and the incurrence of additional short term and long term indebtedness. SCE&G expects that it has or can obtain adequate sources of financing to meet its projected cash requirements for the foreseeable future. Financing Limits and Related Matters SCE&Gs issuance of various securities including long term and short term debt is subject to customary approval or authorization by state and Federal regulatory bodies including SCPSC, the SEC and FERC. The following paragraphs describe the financing programs currently utilized by SCE&G. SCE&Gs First and Refunding Mortgage Bond Indenture, dated April 1, 1945 (Old Mortgage), contains provisions prohibiting the issuance of additional bonds thereunder (Class A Bonds) unless net earnings (as therein defined) for 12 consecutive months out of the 18 months prior to the month of issuance are at least twice the annual interest requirements on all Class A Bonds to be outstanding (Bond Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2001 the Bond Ratio was 5.77. The Old Mortgage allows the issuance of additional Class A Bonds up to an additional principal amount equal to (i) 70 percent of unfunded net property additions (which unfunded net property additions totaled approximately $1,759 million at December 31, 2001), (ii) retirements of Class A Bonds (which retirement credits totaled $44.9 million at December 31, 2001), and (iii) cash on deposit with the Trustee. SCE&G is also subject to a bond indenture dated April 1, 1993 (New Mortgage) covering substantially all of its electric properties under which its future mortgage backed debt (New Bonds) will be issued. New Bonds are issued under the New Mortgage on the basis of a like principal amount of Class A Bonds issued under the Old Mortgage which have been deposited with the Trustee of the New Mortgage. New Bonds will be issuable under the New Mortgage only if adjusted net earnings (as therein defined) for 12 consecutive months out of the 18 months immediately preceding the month of issuance are at least twice the annual interest requirements on all outstanding bonds (including Class A Bonds) and New Bonds to be outstanding (New Bond Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2001 the New Bond Ratio was 5.71. SCE&Gs Restated Articles of Incorporation prohibit issuance of additional shares of preferred stock without the consent of the preferred shareholders unless net earnings (as defined therein) for the 12 consecutive months immediately preceding the month of issuance are at least one and one half times the aggregate of all interest charges and preferred stock dividend requirements on all shares of preferred stock outstanding immediately after the proposed issue (Preferred Stock Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2001 the Preferred Stock Ratio was 1.83. Without the consent of at least a majority of the total voting power of SCE&Gs preferred stock, SCE&G may not issue or assume any unsecured indebtedness if, after such issue or assumption, the total principal amount of all such unsecured indebtedness would exceed ten percent of the aggregate principal amount of all of SCE&Gs secured indebtedness and capital and surplus; however, no such consent is required to enter into agreements for payment of principal, interest and premium for securities issued for pollution control purposes. At December 31, 2001 SCE&G had $250 million of unused authorized lines of credit under a credit agreement supporting the issuance of commercial paper. SCE&Gs commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2001 and 2000 was $114.7 million and $117.5 million, respectively. In addition, Fuel Company has a credit agreement for a maximum of $125 million with the full amount available at December 31, 2001. The credit agreement supports the issuance of short term commercial paper for the financing of nuclear and fossil fuels and sulfur dioxide emission allowances. Fuel Company commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2001 and 2000 was $50.1 million and $70.2 million, respectively. This commercial paper and amounts outstanding under the revolving credit agreement, if any, are guaranteed by SCE&G. Financing Transactions and Other Information The following financing transactions have occurred since January 1, 2001: o On January 24, 2001 SCE&G issued $150 million of first mortgage bonds having an annual interest rate of 6.70 percent and maturing on February 1, 2011. The proceeds from the sale of these bonds were used to reduce short term debt and for general corporate purposes. o On January 31, 2002 SCE&G issued $300 million of first mortgage bonds having an annual interest rate of 6.625 percent and maturing February 1, 2032. The proceeds from the sale of these bonds were used to reduce short term debt primarily incurred as a result of SCE&Gs construction program and to redeem its First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 8 7/8 percent Series due August 15, 2021. SCE&G is constructing a $256 million gas turbine generator project in Aiken County, South Carolina. Two combined cycle turbines will burn natural gas to produce 300 megawatts of new electric generation and use exhaust heat to replace coal fired steam that powers two existing 75 megawatt turbines at the Urquhart Generating Station. The turbine project is scheduled to be completed by June 2002. In October 1999 FERC notified SCE&G of its agreement with SCE&Gs plan to reinforce Lake Murray Dam in order to maintain the lake in case of an extreme earthquake. Construction for the project and related activities, which began in the third quarter of 2001, is expected to cost $250 million and be completed in 2005. Any costs incurred by SCE&G are expected to be recoverable through electric rates. In October 2001 SCE&G filed with the SCPSC its siting plans to construct an 875 megawatt generation facility in Jasper County, South Carolina, to supply electricity to its South Carolina customers. The facility will include three natural gas combustion turbine generators and one steam turbine generator. Construction of the $450 million facility is expected to begin in April 2002, with commercial operation in the summer of 2004. In connection with the facility, SCE&G has signed a 250 megawatt electric supply contract with North Carolina Electric Membership Corporation for a term of at least nine years beginning January 1, 2004. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Electric Operations The Clean Air Act Amendment of 1990 (CAA) required electric utilities to reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (NOx) substantially by the year 2000. SCE&Gs compliance with these reductions has been accomplished. The EPA has indicated that it will propose regulations by December 2003 for stricter limits on mercury and other toxic pollutants generated by coal fired plants. SCE&G currently estimates that air emissions control equipment will require capital expenditures of $72 million over the 2002 2006 period to retrofit existing facilities, with increased operation and maintenance costs of approximately $1.2 million per year. To meet compliance requirements for the years 2007 through 2011, SCE&G anticipates additional capital expenditures of approximately $6 million. In October 1998 the EPA issued a final rule requiring 22 states, including South Carolina, to modify their state implementation plans (SIP) to address the issue of NOx pollution. While not final, South Carolina has proposed NOx reductions that would require SCE&G to install pollution control equipment to reduce its NOx emissions. Capital expenditures will be required to comply with the NOx reductions and they are included in the cost figures above. The EPA has undertaken an aggressive enforcement initiative against the industry and the Department of Justice has brought suit against a number of utilities in Federal court alleging violations of the CAA. Prior to the suits, those utilities had received requests for information under Section 114 of the CAA and were issued Notices of Violation. The basis for these suits is the assertion by the EPA that maintenance activities undertaken by the utilities over the past 20 or more years constitute "major modifications" which would have required the installation of costly Best Available Control Technology (BACT). SCE&G has received and responded to Section 114 requests for information related to Canadys and Wateree Stations. The regulations under the CAA provide certain exemptions to the definition of "major modifications," including an exemption for routine repair, replacement or maintenance. SCE&G has analyzed each of the activities covered by the EPAs requests and believes that each of these activities is covered by the exemption for routine repair, replacement and maintenance. The regulations also provide an exemption for an increase in emissions resulting from increased hours of operation or production rate and from demand growth. It is possible that the EPA will commence enforcement actions against SCE&G, and the EPA has the authority to seek penalties at the rate of up to $27,500 per day for each violation. The EPA also could seek installation of BACT (or equivalent) at the two plants. SCE&G believes that any assertions relative to SCE&Gs compliance with the CAA would be without merit. However, if successful, such assertions could have a material adverse effect on SCE&Gs financial position, cash flows and results of operations. The Federal Clean Water Act, as amended, provides for the imposition of effluent limitations that require treatment for wastewater discharges. Under this Act, compliance with applicable limitations is achieved under a national permit program. Discharge permits have been issued for all and renewed for nearly all of SCE&Gs generating units. Concurrent with renewal of these permits, the permitting agency has implemented a more rigorous program in monitoring and controlling thermal discharges and strategies for toxicity reduction in wastewater streams. SCE&G has been developing compliance plans for these initiatives. Amendments to the Clean Water Act proposed in Congress include several provisions which, if passed, could prove costly to SCE&G. These include, but are not limited to, limitations to mixing zones and the implementation of technology based standards. Gas Distribution SCE&G maintains an environmental assessment program to identify and evaluate current and former operations sites that could require environmental cleanup. As site assessments are initiated, estimates are made of the amount of expenditures, if any, deemed necessary to investigate and clean up each site. These estimates are refined as additional information becomes available; therefore, actual expenditures could differ significantly from the original estimates. Amounts estimated and accrued to date for site assessments and cleanup relate to regulated operations and are deferred and amortized with recovery provided through rates. Deferred amounts, net of amounts previously recovered through rates and insurance settlements, totaled $24.4 million and $20.2 million at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The deferral includes the estimated costs associated with the following matters. o In September 1992 the EPA notified SCE&G, among others, of its potential liability for the investigation and cleanup of the Calhoun Park area site in Charleston, South Carolina. This site encompasses approximately 30 acres and includes properties which were locations for various industrial operations, including one of SCE&Gs decommissioned MGPs. Field work at the site began in November 1993 and has required the submission of several investigative reports and the implementation of several work plans. In September 2000, SCE&G was notified by the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control (DHEC) that benzene contamination was detected in the intermediate aquifer on surrounding properties of the Calhoun Park area site. The EPA required that SCE&G conduct a focused Remedial Investigation/Feasibility Study on the intermediate aquifer, which was completed in June 2001. The EPA expects to issue a Record of Decision dealing with the intermediate aquifer and sediments in June 2002. SCE&G anticipates that major remediation activities will be completed in 2003, with certain monitoring activities continuing until 2007. As of December 31, 2001, SCE&G has spent approximately $15.8 million to remediate the Calhoun Park area site. Total remediation costs are estimated to be $21.9 million. o SCE&G owns three other decommissioned MGP sites in South Carolina which contain residues of by product chemicals. Two of these sites are currently being remediated under work plans approved by DHEC. SCE&G is continuing to investigate the remaining site and is monitoring the nature and extent of residual contamination. SCE&G anticipates that major remediation activities for these three sites will be completed between 2003 2005. SCE&G has spent approximately $2.0 million related to these sites, and expects to incur an additional $6.0 million. REGULATORY MATTERS STATE Regulated public utilities are allowed to record as assets some costs that would be expensed by other enterprises. If deregulation or other changes in the regulatory environment occur, SCE&G may no longer be eligible to apply this accounting treatment and may be required to eliminate such regulatory assets from its balance sheet. Although the potential effects of deregulation cannot be determined at present, discontinuation of the accounting treatment could have a material adverse effect on SCE&Gs results of operations in the period the write off would be recorded. It is expected that cash flows and the financial position of SCE&G would not be materially affected by the discontinuation of the accounting treatment. SCE&G reported approximately $217 million and $81 million of regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively, including amounts recorded for deferred income tax assets and liabilities of approximately $125 million and $71 million, respectively, on its balance sheet at December 31, 2001. SCE&Gs generation assets would be exposed to considerable financial risks in a deregulated electric market. If market prices for electric generation do not produce adequate revenue streams and the enabling legislation or regulatory actions do not provide for recovery of the resulting stranded costs, SCE&G could be required to write down its investment in these assets. SCE&G cannot predict whether any write downs will be necessary and, if they are, the extent to which they would adversely affect SCE&Gs results of operations in the period in which they would be recorded. As of December 31, 2001, SCE&Gs net investment in fossil/hydro and nuclear generation assets was $1,385.5 million and $572.9 million, respectively. SCE&G is subject to the jurisdiction of the SCPSC as to retail electric, gas and transit rates, service, accounting, issuance of securities (other than short term promissory notes) and other matters. Electric On April 24, 2001 the SCPSC approved SCE&Gs request to increase the fuel component of rates charged to electric customers from 1.330 cents per kilowatt hour to 1.579 cents per kilowatt hour. The increase reflects higher fuel costs projected for the period May 2001 through April 2002. The increase also provides recovery over a two year period of under collected actual fuel costs through April 2001, including short term purchased power costs necessitated by outages at two of SCE&Gs base load generating plants in winter 2000 2001. The new rates were effective as of the first billing cycle in May 2001. On September 14, 1999 the SCPSC approved an accelerated capital recovery plan for SCE&Gs Cope Generating Station. The plan was implemented beginning January 1, 2000 for a three year period. The SCPSC approved an accelerated capital recovery methodology wherein SCE&G may increase depreciation of its Cope Generating Station in excess of amounts that would be recorded based upon currently approved depreciation rates. The amount of the accelerated depreciation will be determined by SCE&G based on the level of revenues and operating expenses, not to exceed $36 million annually without the approval of the SCPSC. Any unused portion of the $36 million in any given year may be carried forward for possible use in the following year. As of December 31, 2001 no accelerated depreciation has been recorded. The accelerated capital recovery plan will be accomplished through existing customer rates. On January 9, 1996 the SCPSC authorized a return on common equity of 12.0 percent. The SCPSC also approved establishment of a Storm Damage Reserve Account capped at $50 million to be collected through rates over a ten year period. Additionally, the SCPSC approved accelerated amortization of a significant portion of SCE&Gs electric regulatory assets (excluding deferred income tax assets) and the remaining transition obligation for postretirement benefits other than pensions, which enabled SCE&G to recover the balances as of the end of the year 2000. Gas SCE&Gs rates are established using a cost of gas component approved by the SCPSC which may be modified periodically to reflect changes in the price of natural gas purchased by SCE&G. SCE&Gs cost of gas component in effect during the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 was as follows: Rate Per Therm Effective Date Rate Per Therm Effective Date $.993 January February 2001 $.543 January July 2000 $.793 March October 2001 $.688 August October 2000 $.596 November December 2001 $.782 November December 2000 On July 5, 2000 the SCPSC approved SCE&Gs request to implement lower depreciation rates for its gas operations. The new rates were effective retroactively to January 1, 2000 and resulted in a reduction in annual depreciation expense of approximately $2.9 million. The retroactive effect was recorded in the second quarter of 2000. In 1994 the SCPSC issued an order approving SCE&Gs request to recover through a billing surcharge to its gas customers the costs of environmental cleanup at the sites of former MGPs. The billing surcharge is subject to annual review and provides for the recovery of substantially all actual and projected site assessment and cleanup costs and environmental claims settlements for SCE&Gs gas operations that had previously been deferred. In October 2001, as a result of the annual review, the SCPSC approved SCE&Gs request to increase the billing surcharge from 1.1cents per therm to 3.0 cents per therm, which is intended to provide for the recovery, prior to the end of the year 2005, of the balance remaining at December 31, 2001 of $24.4 million. Transit In September 1992 the SCPSC issued an order granting SCE&Gs request for a $.25 increase in transit fares from $.50 to $.75 in Columbia, South Carolina; however, the SCPSC also required $.40 fares for low income customers and denied SCE&Gs request for certain bus route and schedule changes. The new rates were placed into effect in October 1992. After several appeals and petitions for reconsideration to the Circuit Court and the Supreme Court by the various parties, on September 27, 2000 the SCPSC issued an order granting certain relief requested by SCE&G. On September 29, 2000 the Consumer Advocate filed a motion with the SCPSC for a stay of this order. On October 3, 2000 the SCPSC accepted the Consumer Advocates motion and issued a stay of its order. The Consumer Advocate and other intervenors have petitioned the Circuit Court for judicial review of the SCPSCs order granting relief. The Circuit Court has held in abeyance any appellate review pending the outcome of current negotiations on the transfer of the transit system from SCE&G to an unaffiliated regional transit authority. REGULATORY MATTERS FEDERAL SCE&Gs regulated business operations were impacted by FERC Orders No. 636, 888 and 2000. Order No. 636 was intended to deregulate the markets for interstate sales of natural gas by requiring that pipelines provide transportation services that are equal in quality for all gas suppliers whether the customer purchases gas from the pipeline or another supplier. Orders No. 888 and 2000 require utilities under FERC jurisdiction that own, control or operate transmission lines to file nondiscriminatory open access tariffs that offer to others the same transmission service they provide to themselves and to submit plans for the possible formulation of an RTO. In the opinion of SCE&G, it continues to be able to meet successfully the challenges of these altered business climates and does not anticipate any material adverse impact on the results of operations, cash flows, financial position or business prospects. As already noted, Order No. 2000 required utilities which operate electric transmission systems to submit plans for the possible formation of RTOs. In March 2001 FERC gave provisional approval to SCE&G and two other southeastern electric utilities to establish GridSouth Transco, LLC (GridSouth) as an independent regional transmission company, responsible for operating and planning the utilities combined transmission systems. In July 2001 FERC expressed its desire that utilities throughout the United States combine their transmission systems to create four large independent regional operators, one each in the Northeast, Southeast, Midwest and West. Accordingly, FERC ordered mediation talks to take place between the utilities forming GridSouth and certain groups that had proposed other RTOs. These talks were mediated by an administrative law judge, who issued her nonbinding mediation report to FERC in September 2001. The report made recommendations related to the formation of a Southeast regional RTO. While FERC has not acted on the mediation report, and the timing or impact of future FERC orders related to RTOs cannot be predicted, SCE&G expects to be reimbursed or to otherwise recover costs it has incurred in connection with RTO formation. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Following are descriptions of SCE&Gs accounting policies which are new or most critical in terms of reporting results of operations. SFAS 71 SCE&G is subject to the provisions of SFAS 71, which requires it to record certain assets and liabilities that defer the recognition of expenses and revenues to future periods as a result of being rate regulated. Aside from other impacts which might be experienced as a result of deregulation or other significant changes in the regulatory environments of the utilities, SFAS 71 could cease to be applicable and SCE&G could be required to write off such regulatory assets and liabilities (see also COMPETITION). Provisions for bad debts / Allowances for doubtful accounts As of each balance sheet date, SCE&G evaluates the collectibility of accounts receivable and records allowances for doubtful accounts based on estimates of the level of actual write offs which might be experienced. These estimates are based on, among other things, comparisons of the relative age of accounts and consideration of actual write off history. Pension accounting SCE&G follows SFAS 87 in accounting for its defined benefit pension plan. SCE&Gs plan is well funded and as such, significant net pension income is reflected in the financial statements (see Results of Operations). SFAS 87 requires the use of several assumptions, the selection of which may have a large impact on the resulting benefit recorded. Among the more sensitive assumptions are those surrounding discount rates and returns on assets. Net pension income of $41.1 million recorded in 2001 reflects the use of an 8 percent discount rate and an assumed 9.5 percent long term return on plan assets. SCE&G believes that these assumptions are, and that the resulting pension income amount is, reasonable. Were SCE&G to have alternatively selected a discount rate of 7.5 percent and a rate of return on assets of 9 percent, the net pension income recorded in 2001 would have been reduced by approximately $5.9 million. Accounting for postretirement benefits other than pensions Similar to its pension accounting, SCE&G follows SFAS 106 in accounting for its postretirement medical and life insurance benefits. This plan is unfunded, so no return on assets impacts the net expense recorded; however, the selection of discount rates can significantly impact the actuarial determination of net expense. SCE&G used a discount rate of 8 percent and recorded a net SFAS 106 cost of $14.4 million for 2001. Were the selected discount rate to have been 7.5 percent, the expense would have been approximately $0.4 million higher. SFAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, provides guidance for recording and disclosing a liability related to the future obligation to retire an asset (such as a nuclear plant). SCE&G will adopt SFAS 143 effective January 1, 2003. The impact SFAS 143 may have on SCE&Gs results of operations, cash flows or financial position has not been determined but could be material. The provisions of SFAS 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets," are effective January 1, 2002. This Statement requires that one accounting model be used for long lived assets to be disposed of by sale, whether previously held and used or newly acquired, and broadens the presentation of discontinued operations to include more disposal transactions. There was no impact on SCE&Gs financial statements from the initial adoption of SFAS 144. AFFILIATE TRANSACTIONS SCE&G has two equity method investments in partnerships involved in converting coal to alternate fuel, the use of which fuel qualifies for favorable Federal income tax treatment (tax credits). The aggregate investment in these partnerships as of December 31, 2001 is approximately $3 million, and through December 31, 2001, they had generated and passed through to SCE&G approximately $28 million in such tax credits. Under a plan approved by the SCPSC, any tax credits generated and ultimately passed through to SCE&G have been and will be deferred and used to offset defined capital expenditures such as those related to reduction of environmental emissions. OTHER MATTERS Claims and Litigation SCANA and Westvaco each own a 50 percent interest in Cogen South LLC (Cogen). Cogen built and operates a cogeneration facility in North Charleston, South Carolina. On September 10, 1998 the contractor in charge of construction filed suit in Circuit Court alleging that it incurred construction cost overruns relating to the facility and that the construction contract provides for recovery of these costs. In addition to Cogen, Westvaco, SCE&G and SCANA were named as defendants in the suit. Cogen filed a separate suit against the contractor for delay and performance issues. The suits were combined and the contractor brought the manufacturer of the generator into the performance suit. In November 2001 a settlement was reached between all parties. Terms of the settlement are confidential, but the settlements impact on SCE&Gs results of operations, cash flow and financial position is not material. SCE&G is also engaged in various other claims and litigation incidental to its business operations which management anticipates will be resolved without material loss to SCE&G. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Net Income Net income and the percent change from the previous year for the years 2001, 2000 and 1999 were as follows: Millions of dollars 2001 2000 1999 Net income derived from: Continuing operations $221.9 $231.3 $189.2 Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of taxes 22.3 Net income $221.9 $253.6 $189.2 Percent increase (decrease) in net income (12.50%) 34.04% (16.75%) o 2001 vs 2000 Net income decreased primarily as a result of milder weather and a slowing economy. o 2000 vs 1999 Net income increased primarily as a result of more favorable weather, customer growth and pension income. These were partially offset by higher purchased power costs and a charge for repairs at Summer Station. Pension income recorded by SCE&G reduced operations expense by $20.6 million, $20.9 million and $16.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. In addition, pension income increased other income by $12.7 million, $12.9 million and $10.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Effective July 1, 2000 SCE&Gs pension plan was amended to provide a cash balance formula. The effect of this plan amendment was to reduce net periodic benefit income for the year ended December 31, 2000 by approximately $3.4 million. SCE&Gs financial statements include the recording of an AFC. AFC is a utility accounting practice whereby a portion of the cost of both equity and borrowed funds used to finance construction (which is shown on the balance sheet as construction work in progress) is capitalized. An equity portion of AFC is included in nonoperating income and a debt portion of AFC is included in interest charges (credits) as noncash items, both of which have the effect of increasing reported net income. AFC represented approximately 6.5 percent of income before income taxes in 2001, 1.7 percent in 2000 and 2.0 percent in 1999. Electric Operations Electric Operations is comprised of the electric portion of SCE&G and Fuel Company. Electric operations sales margins, for 2001, 2000 and 1999, excluding the cumulative effect of accounting change in 2000, were as follows: Millions of dollars 2001 2000 1999 Operating revenues $1,374.0 $1,343.8 $1,226.0 Less: Fuel used in generation (223.9) (231.6) (214.4) Purchased power (233.9) (182.7) (141.5) Margin $916.2 $929.5 $870.1 o 2001 vs 2000 Sales margin decreased primarily due to milder weather and the impact of the slowing economy, which was partially offset by customer growth and lower fuel costs. o 2000 vs 1999 Sales margin increased primarily due to more favorable weather and customer growth. Increases (decreases) from the prior year in megawatt hour (MWH) sales volume by classes, excluding volumes attributable to the cumulative effect of accounting change in 2000, were as follows: Classification 2001 % Change 2000 % Change Residential (170,509) (2.5%) 396,179 6.3% Commercial (17,194) 353,621 5.9% Industrial (317,659) (4.7%) 524,969 8.5% Sales for resale (excluding interchange) (108,236) (8.8%) 33,505 2.8% Other (18,927) (3.4%) 34,676 6.7% Total territorial (632,525) (3.0%) 1,342,950 6.7% Negotiated Market Sales Tariff 207,984 10.0% 264,257 15.7% Total (424,541) (2.0%) 1,607,207 7.4% o 2001 vs 2000 Sales volume decreased primarily due to milder weather and the impact of the slowing economy. o 2000 vs 1999 Sales volume increased primarily due to more favorable weather and customer growth. In March 2001 Summer Station returned to service after having been taken out of service on October 7, 2000 for a planned maintenance and refueling outage. During initial inspection activities, plant personnel discovered a small leak in a weld in a primary coolant system pipe. Repairs were completed and the integrity of the new welds was verified through extensive testing. The NRC was closely involved throughout this process and approved SCE&Gs actions, as well as the restart schedule. Also in April 2001 SCE&Gs 385 megawatt coal fired Cope Generating Station returned to service after having been taken out of service in January 2001 due to an electrical ground in the generator. The SCPSC has approved recovery of the cost of replacement power related to both of these outages through SCE&Gs fuel adjustment clause. Gas Distribution Gas Distribution is comprised of the local distribution operations of SCE&G. Gas distribution sales margins for 2001, 2000 and 1999, excluding the cumulative effect of accounting change in 2000, were as follows: Millions of dollars 2001 2000 1999 Operating revenues $341.0 $325.1 $239.0 Less: Gas purchased for resale (251.6) (233.8) (152.6) Margin $89.4 $91.3 $86.4 o 2001 vs 2000 Sales margin decreased primarily as a result of the slowing economy and increased competition with alternate fuels. o 2000 vs 1999 Sales margin increased primarily as a result of more favorable weather. Increases (decreases) from the prior year in dekatherm (DT) sales volume by classes, including transportation gas and excluding volumes attributable to the cumulative effect of accounting change in 2000, were as follows: Classification 2001 % Change 2000 % Change Residential (3,249,400) (22.4%) 2,682,707 22.7% Commercial (1,511,368) (11.8%) 1,118,193 9.6% Industrial (2,828,121) (16.5%) (828,737) (4.6)% Transportation gas 375,436 18.0% 110,220 5.6% Total (7,213,453) (15.5%) 3,082,383 7.1% o 2001 vs 2000 Sales volume decreased due to the slowing economy and use of alternate fuels by industrial customers. o 2000 vs 1999 Sales volume increased due to colder weather and customer growth, which were partially offset by curtailments and use of alternate fuels by industrial customers. Other Operating Expenses Increases (decreases) in other operating expenses were as follows: Millions of dollars 2001 % Change 2000 % Change Other operation and maintenance $7.0 2.3% $(7.3) (2.3%) Depreciation and amortization 5.1 3.2% 4.8 3.1% Other taxes 1.5 1.5% 3.5 3.7% Total $13.6 2.4% $1.0 0.2% o 2001 vs 2000 Other operation and maintenance expenses increased primarily as a result of increases in employee benefit costs. Depreciation and amortization increased primarily as a result of normal increases in utility plant. Other taxes increased primarily due to increased property taxes. o 2000 vs 1999 Other operation and maintenance decreased due to pension income (see Net Income), which was partially offset by increased maintenance costs for electric generating and distribution facilities. Depreciation and amortization increased primarily due to normal increases in utility plant. Other taxes increased primarily due to increased property taxes. Interest Expense Increases (decreases) in interest expense, excluding the debt component of AFC, were as follows: Millions of dollars 2001 % Change 2000 % Change Interest on long term debt, net $12.0 11.9% $4.0 4.1% Other interest expense (2.4) (29.6%) (0.5) (5.8%) Total $9.6 8.8% $3.5 3.3% Interest expense in 2001 increased as a result of increased borrowings. Interest expense in 2000 increased as a result of increased borrowings and increased weighted average interest rates on short term and long term borrowings. Income Taxes Income taxes decreased approximately $9.8 million for the year 2001 compared to 2000 and increased approximately $23.4 million for the year ended 2000 compared to 1999. Changes in income taxes are primarily due to changes in operating income. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK All financial instruments held by SCE&G described below are held for purposes other than trading. Interest rate risk The table below provides information about SCE&Gs financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. December 31, 2001 Expected Maturity Date Millions of dollars Liabilities 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter Total Fair Value Long Term Debt: Fixed Rate ($) 27.6 129.7 123.9 173.9 154.7 1,561.0 1,542.9 951.2 Average Interest Rate 6.73% 6.37% 7.52% 7.40% 8.66% 7.33% 7.33% December 31, 2000 Expected Maturity Date Millions of dollars Liabilities 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Thereafter Total Fair Value Long Term Debt: Fixed Rate ($) 27.6 27.6 129.5 123.9 173.9 932.5 1,415.0 1,331.6 Average Interest Rate 6.72% 6.72% 6.37% 7.52% 7.40% 7.55% 7.39% While a decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of debt, it is unlikely that events which would result in a realized loss will occur. 
 
