ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Statements included in this discussion and analysis (or elsewhere in this annual report) which are not statements of historical fact are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, "forward looking statements" for purposes of the safe harbor provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Readers are cautioned that any such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) that the information is of a preliminary nature and may be subject to further and or continuing review and adjustment, (2) changes in the utility and nonutility regulatory environment, (3) changes in the economy, especially in areas served by the Companys subsidiaries, (4) the impact of competition from other energy suppliers, (5) growth opportunities for the Companys regulated and diversified subsidiaries, (6) the results of financing efforts, (7) changes in the Companys accounting policies, (8) weather conditions, especially in areas served by the Companys subsidiaries, (9) performance and marketability of the Companys investments in telecommunications companies, (10) performance of the Companys pension plan assets, (11) inflation, (12) changes in environmental regulations, (13) volatility in commodity natural gas markets and (14) the other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in the Companys periodic reports filed with the SEC. The Company disclaims any obligation to update any forward looking statements. COMPETITION Electric Operations In South Carolina, electric restructuring efforts remain stalled, and consideration of electric restructuring legislation is unlikely in 2003. Further, while several companies have announced their intent to site merchant generating plants in the Companys service territory, economic events, environmental concerns and other factors have slowed those efforts. In view of the potential for deregulation, the Company has continued efforts to renew franchise agreements with municipalities within its current service area. Effective October 2002, SCE&G secured a 30 year franchise to provide the City of Columbia, South Carolina, with electric and natural gas services. Columbia is one of the largest cities in SCE&Gs service area. Previously, SCE&G reached franchise agreements with the cities of North Charleston (franchise expires in 2021), Charleston (franchise expires in 2026) and numerous other municipalities. In addition, in May 2001 SCE&G signed an electric supply contract with North Carolina Electric Membership Corporation to supply 350 MW in each of 2004 and 2005 and 250 MW annually in 2006 through 2012. These energy sales are recallable for SCE&Gs native load, if necessary. At the federal level, energy legislation passed both houses of Congress in 2002, though significant differences between the House and Senate versions were not reconciled before the legislative session adjourned. Some of the more stringent provisions of this legislation would have required, among other things, that one percent of the electric energy sold by retail electric suppliers, beginning in 2005, escalating to ten percent in 2019, be generated from renewable energy resources. Renewable energy resources, as defined in some versions of the legislation, would have excluded hydroelectric generation. Substantial penalties would have been levied for failure to comply. Electric cooperatives and municipal utilities would have been exempt from these requirements. The Company expects similar legislation will be introduced in Congress in 2003. The Company cannot predict whether such legislation will be enacted, and if it is, the conditions it would impose on utilities. In June 2002 implementation of GridSouth Transco LLC (GridSouth) was suspended pending the issuance and evaluation of new FERC directives. In July 2002 FERC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NOPR) on Standard Market Design which proposes sweeping changes to the countrys existing regulatory framework governing transmission, open access and energy markets and will attempt, in large measure, to standardize the national energy market. While it is anticipated that significant change to the NOPR may occur and that implementation, presently scheduled for September 2004, may be delayed, any rules standardizing the markets may have a significant impact on SCE&Gs access to or cost of power for its native load customers and on SCE&Gs marketing of power outside its service territory. The Company is currently evaluating this NOPR to determine what effect it will have on SCE&Gs operations. Additional directives from FERC are expected in 2003. Gas Distribution The Company has secured franchise agreements with several municipalities within its current service areas to provide natural gas services. See previous discussion at Electric Operations. Natural gas competes with electricity, propane and heating oil to serve the heating and, to a lesser extent, the other household energy needs of residential and small commercial customers. This competition is generally based on price and convenience. Large commercial and industrial customers often have the ability to switch from natural gas to an alternate fuel, such as propane or fuel oil. Natural gas competes with these alternate fuels based on price. As a result, any significant disparity between supply and demand, either of natural gas or of alternate fuels, and due either to production or delivery disruptions or other factors, will affect the price and impact the Companys ability to retain large commercial and industrial customers on a monthly basis. Gas Transmission In September 2002 SCG Pipeline, Inc. (SCG) received approval from FERC to acquire an interest in an existing pipeline and to build a pipeline from Elba Island, Georgia to Jasper County, South Carolina. When operational, SCG will provide interstate transportation services for natural gas to markets in southeastern Georgia and South Carolina. SCG will transport natural gas from interconnections with Southern Natural at Port Wentworth, Georgia, and from an import terminal owned by Southern LNG, Inc. at Elba Island, near Savannah, Georgia. The endpoint of SCGs pipeline will be at the site of the natural gas fired generating station that SCE&G is building in Jasper County, South Carolina. Construction of the pipeline is expected to begin in the first half of 2003, with completion expected in the fall of 2003. SCPC supplies natural gas to SCE&G, for its resale to gas distribution customers and for certain electric generation needs. Gas transmission also sells natural gas to large commercial and industrial customers in South Carolina, and it faces the same competitive pressures as gas distribution for these classes of customers. Retail Gas Marketing In April 2002 Georgias Natural Gas Consumers Relief Act of 2002 (the Act) became law. The Act attempts to resolve many of the consumer protection and other public policy issues surrounding Georgias natural gas market with the following significant provisions: o creates a regulated provider selected through a bidding process to serve low income and high credit risk customers, o allows Georgias 42 non profit Electric Membership Corporations (EMCs) to establish natural gas affiliates that may seek certification as marketers of natural gas, o establishes new service quality standards and assignment of interstate assets, and o grants to the GPSC the authority to temporarily regulate rates if more than 90% of customers in a specific area of the state are served by three or fewer marketers. In June 2002 SCANA Energy won GPSC approval to become the States regulated provider. In this capacity, SCANA Energy serves low income customers generally at below market rates, subsidized by Georgias Universal Service Fund, and extends service generally at above market rates to high credit risk customers who have been denied service by other marketers. SCANA Energy began serving these customers on September 1, 2002, and at December 31, 2002, approximately 11,000 customers were being served by SCANA Energy under this program. In June 2002 the fourth largest marketer in Georgias natural gas market declared bankruptcy. In July 2002 a subsidiary of Southern Company completed its purchase of the bankrupt marketers Georgia operations. Southern Company, through another subsidiary, sells electricity to approximately two million customers in Georgia. In addition, affiliates of two EMCs have been certified by the GPSC as gas marketers. These new entrants to Georgias natural gas market may help stabilize the market, although it is unclear what impact these entrants may have on the Companys competitive position. At December 31, 2002 the three largest marketers (which include SCANA Energy) served approximately 80% of Georgias natural gas market. SCANA Energy and SCANAs other natural gas distribution, transmission and marketing segments maintain gas inventory and also utilize forward contracts and financial instruments, including futures contracts and options, to manage their exposure to fluctuating commodity natural gas prices. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) As a part of this risk management process, at any given time a portion of SCANAs projected natural gas needs has been purchased or otherwise placed under contract. This factor and others (e.g., the level of bad debts experienced) are, in the aggregate, used to establish retail pricing levels at SCANA Energy. As a result of the regulatory actions discussed above and other downward pricing pressures inherent in the competitive market, SCANA Energy may be unable to sustain its current level of customers and or pricing, thereby reducing expected margins and profitability. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Companys cash requirements arise primarily from the operational needs of SCANA subsidiaries, the Companys construction program, the investments of SCANAs subsidiaries and payment of dividends. The ability of SCANAs regulated subsidiaries to replace existing plant investment, as well as to expand to meet future demand for electricity and gas, will depend upon their ability to attract the necessary financial capital on reasonable terms. SCANAs regulated subsidiaries recover the costs of providing services through rates charged to customers. Rates for regulated services are generally based on historical costs. As customer growth and inflation occur and the regulated subsidiaries continue their ongoing construction programs, the Company expects to seek increases in rates. The Companys future financial position and results of operations will be affected by the regulated subsidiaries ability to obtain adequate and timely rate and other regulatory relief, if requested. In January 2003 the SCPSC issued an order granting SCE&G an increase in retail electric rates of 5.8% which is designed to produce additional annual revenues of approximately $70.7 million based on a test year calculation. The SCPSC authorized a return on common equity of 12.45%. The new rates were effective for service rendered on and after February 1, 2003. As a part of the order, the SCPSC extended through 2005 its approval of the accelerated capital recovery plan for SCE&Gs Cope Generating Station. Under the plan, SCE&G may increase depreciation of its Cope Generating Station in excess of amounts that would be recorded based upon currently approved depreciation rates, not to exceed $36 million annually, without the approval of the SCPSC. Any unused portion of the $36 million in any given year may be carried forward for possible use in the following year. The estimated primary cash requirements for 2003 and the actual primary cash requirements for 2002, excluding requirements for non nuclear fuel purchases, short term borrowings and dividends, are as follows: Millions of dollars 2003 2002 Property additions and construction expenditures, net of AFC $838 $681 Nuclear fuel expenditures 30 13 Investments 20 62 Maturing obligations, redemptions and sinking and purchase fund requirements 374 1,082 Total $1,262 $1,838 Approximately 28% of total cash requirements was provided from internal sources in 2002 as compared to 41% in 2001. The Companys contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2002 are summarized as follows: Contractual Cash Obligations Less than After December 31, 2002 Total 1year 1 3 years 4 5 years 5 years (Millions of dollars) Long term and short term debt (including interest) $5,215 $759 $1,048 $409 $2,999 Preferred stock sinking funds 10 1 2 1 6 Capital leases 3 2 1 Operating leases 76 16 33 19 8 Other commercial commitments 2,518 1,249 571 173 525 Included in other commercial commitments are estimated obligations under forward contracts for natural gas purchases. Many of these forward contracts for natural gas purchases include customary "make whole" or default provisions, but are not considered to be "take or pay" contracts. Certain of these contracts relate to regulated businesses; therefore, the effects of such contracts on fuel costs are reflected in electric or gas rates. At September 30, 2002, other commercial commitments included amounts for a take and pay natural gas contract with a 15 year term beginning in 2004. That contract was terminated in December 2002, and amounts due under the contract totaling $4.2 billion over the 15 year term have been removed from contractual cash obligations. See Note 12E of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition to these commercial commitments, the Company is party to certain New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) futures contracts for which any unfavorable market movements through December 31, 2002 are funded in cash. These derivatives are accounted for as cash flow hedges under SFAS 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended, and their effects are reflected within other comprehensive income until such time as the anticipated sales transactions occur. In addition to the above contractual cash commitments, the Company sponsors a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan and an unfunded health care and life insurance benefit plan for retirees. The pension plan has been adequately funded, with no contributions having been required since 1997. Cash benefit payments under the health care and life insurance benefit plan have been approximately $10 million per year in recent years, and similar payments are expected in the future. The Company anticipates that its contractual cash obligations will be met through internally generated funds and the incurrence of additional short term and long term indebtedness. Sales of additional equity securities may also occur. The Company expects that it has or can obtain adequate sources of financing to meet its projected cash requirements for the foreseeable future. Financing Limits and Related Matters The Companys issuance of various securities, including long term and short term debt, is subject to customary approval or authorization by state and federal regulatory bodies including state public service commissions and the SEC. The following describes the financing programs currently utilized by the Company. SCANA Corporation SCANA has in effect a medium term note program for the issuance from time to time of unsecured medium term debt securities. While issuance of these securities requires customary approvals discussed above, the Indenture under which they are issued contains no specific limit on the amount which may be issued. At December 31, 2002 SCANA had $163 million of unused lines of credit, comprised of $50 million of committed lines, expiring in 2003, and $113 million of uncommitted lines. There were no amounts outstanding under SCANAs lines of credit at December 31, 2002 and 2001. On January 3, 2003 SCANA obtained an additional $50 million committed line of credit, expiring in 2004. On January 8, 2003, SCANA renegotiated an existing $78 million uncommitted line of credit to allow SCE&G to share in this line of credit. The Company uses interest rate swap agreements to manage interest rate risk. These swap agreements provide for the Company to pay variable and receive fixed interest payments, and are designated as fair value hedges of certain debt instruments. The Company may terminate a swap agreement, and may replace it with a new swap also designated as a fair value hedge. South Carolina Electric & Gas Company SCE&G is subject to the jurisdiction of the SCPSC as to retail electric and gas rates, service, accounting, issuance of securities (other than short term borrowings) and other matters. SCE&Gs First and Refunding Mortgage Bond Indenture, dated April 1, 1945 (Old Mortgage), contains provisions prohibiting the issuance of additional bonds thereunder (Class A Bonds) unless net earnings (as therein defined) for 12 consecutive months out of the 18 months prior to the month of issuance are at least twice the annual interest requirements on all Class A Bonds to be outstanding (Bond Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2002 the Bond Ratio was 5.51. The Old Mortgage allows the issuance of Class A Bonds up to an additional principal amount equal to (i) 70% of unfunded net property additions (which unfunded net property additions totaled approximately $522 million at December 31, 2002), (ii) retirements of Class A Bonds (which retirement credits totaled $187.2 million at December 31, 2002), and (iii) cash on deposit with the Trustee. SCE&G is also subject to a bond indenture dated April 1, 1993 (New Mortgage) covering substantially all of its electric properties under which its future mortgage backed debt (New Bonds) will be issued. New Bonds are issued under the New Mortgage on the basis of a like principal amount of Class A Bonds issued under the Old Mortgage which have been deposited with the Trustee of the New Mortgage. At December 31, 2002 approximately $1.3 billion Class A Bonds were on deposit with the Trustee of the New Mortgage and are available to support the issuance of additional New Bonds. New Bonds will be issuable under the New Mortgage only if adjusted net earnings (as therein defined) for 12 consecutive months out of the 18 months immediately preceding the month of issuance are at least twice the annual interest requirements on all outstanding bonds (including Class A Bonds) and New Bonds to be outstanding (New Bond Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2002 the New Bond Ratio was 5.36. SCE&Gs Restated Articles of Incorporation (the Articles) prohibit issuance of additional shares of preferred stock without the consent of the preferred shareholders unless net earnings (as defined therein) for the 12 consecutive months immediately preceding the month of issuance are at least one and one half times the aggregate of all interest charges and preferred stock dividend requirements on all shares of preferred stock outstanding immediately after the proposed issue (Preferred Stock Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2002, the Preferred Stock Ratio was 1.72. The Articles also require the consent of at least a majority of the total voting power of SCE&Gs preferred stock before SCE&G may issue or assume any unsecured indebtedness if, after such issue or assumption, the total principal amount of all such unsecured indebtedness would exceed ten percent of the aggregate principal amount of all of SCE&Gs secured indebtedness and capital and surplus (the ten percent test). No such consent is required to enter into agreements for payment of principal, interest and premium for securities issued for pollution control purposes. At December 31, 2002 the ten percent test would have limited issuances of unsecured indebtedness to approximately $366.7 million. Unsecured indebtedness at December 31, 2002 totaled approximately $127.6 million. At December 31, 2002 SCE&G had $250 million of unused committed lines of credit comprised of $175 million expiring in 2003 and $75 million expiring in 2005. These lines of credit support the issuance of commercial paper. SCE&Gs commercial paper outstanding totaled $127.6 million and $114.7 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, at weighted average interest rates of 1.40% and 1.95%, respectively. On January 8, 2003 a credit agreement was reached allowing SCE&G to share an existing $78 million SCANA uncommitted line of credit. In addition, Fuel Company has a credit agreement for a maximum of $125 million expiring in 2003 with the full amount available at December 31, 2002. The credit agreement supports the issuance of short term commercial paper for the financing of nuclear and fossil fuels and sulfur dioxide emission allowances. Fuel Company commercial paper outstanding totaled $50.1 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, at weighted average interest rates of 1.38% and 2.06%, respectively. This commercial paper and amounts outstanding under the revolving credit agreement, if any, are guaranteed by SCE&G. Public Service Company of North Carolina, Incorporated PSNC Energy has in effect a medium term note program for the issuance from time to time of unsecured medium term debt securities. While issuance of these securities requires customary approvals discussed above, the Indenture under which they are issued contains no specific limit on the amount which may be issued. PSNC Energy expects that it has or can obtain adequate sources of financing to meet its projected cash requirements for the foreseeable future. At December 31, 2002 PSNC Energy had $125 million unused committed lines of credit, expiring in 2003, under a credit agreement supporting the issuance of commercial paper. PSNC Energy had total commercial paper outstanding of $31.1 million at December 31, 2002, at a weighted average interest rate of 1.42%. PSNC Energy had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2001. Financing Transactions The following financing transactions have occurred since January 1, 2002: o On January 31, 2002 SCANA issued $250 million of medium term notes maturing February 1, 2012 and bearing a fixed interest rate of 6.25%. Also on January 31, 2002 SCANA issued $150 million of two year floating rate notes maturing February 1, 2004. The interest rate on the floating rate notes is reset quarterly based on three month LIBOR plus 62.5 basis points. Proceeds from these issuances were used to refinance $400 million of two year floating rate notes that matured February 8, 2002, which had been issued to finance SCANAs acquisition of PSNC Energy. o On January 31, 2002 SCE&G issued $300 million of first mortgage bonds having an annual interest rate of 6.625% and maturing February 1, 2032. The proceeds from the sale of these bonds were used to reduce short term debt primarily incurred as a result of SCE&Gs construction program and to redeem on March 11, 2002 its $103.5 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 8 7/8% Series due August 15, 2021. o On April 24, 2002 SCANA redeemed $202 million of floating rate medium term notes that were set to mature January 24, 2003. The notes were bearing interest at a rate of 2.90% when redeemed. o On July 15, 2002 SCANA retired at maturity $300 million of floating rate medium term notes. The notes were bearing interest at a rate of 4.063% at maturity. o On August 15, 2002 SCANA issued $100 million one year floating rate medium term notes maturing August 15, 2003. The interest rate on the notes is reset quarterly based on three month LIBOR plus 87.5 basis points. The proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. o On October 16, 2002 SCANA sold 6 million shares of common stock and received net proceeds of approximately $146 million. On October 17, 2002 SCANA made an equity contribution to SCE&G of $150 million. o On November 8, 2002 the South Carolina Jobs Economic Development Authority (JEDA) issued, and SCE&G borrowed the proceeds of, an aggregate of $90.4 million principal amount of tax exempt industrial revenue bonds (the Bonds). The Bonds bear interest at rates ranging from 4.2% to 5.45%, with maturities ranging from 2012 to 2032. Proceeds from the Bonds were used to refund an aggregate amount of $62.3 million principal amount of pollution control revenue bonds and to pay the costs of solid waste disposal facilities at two of SCE&Gs electric generating plants. o On January 23, 2003 SCE&G issued $200 million First Mortgage Bonds having an annual interest rate of 5.80% and maturing on January 15, 2033. The proceeds from the sale of these bonds were used to reduce short term debt and for general corporate purposes. o The Company received payments to terminate swaps totaling $29.3 million and $6.5 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively. These amounts are being amortized over the ten year term of the underlying debt they formerly hedged. At December 31, 2002 the estimated fair value of the Companys swaps totaled $9.0 million related to combined notional amounts of $344.9 million. Other Information SCE&G placed in service a $264 million gas turbine generator project in Aiken County, South Carolina in June 2002. Two combined cycle turbines burn natural gas to produce 341 MW of new electric generation and use exhaust heat to replace coal fired steam that powers two existing 75 MW turbines at the Urquhart Generating Station. In May 2002 SCE&G began construction of an 875 MW generation facility in Jasper County, South Carolina, to supply electricity to its South Carolina customers. The facility will include three natural gas combustion turbine generators and one steam turbine generator. The $450 million facility is expected to begin commercial operation in mid 2004. SCG will transport natural gas to the facility. In October 1999 FERC mandated that SCE&G reinforce its Lake Murray dam in order to comply with new federal safety standards and maintain the lake in case of an extreme earthquake. Construction for the project and related activities, which began in the third quarter of 2001, is expected to cost approximately $275 million and be completed in 2005. Costs incurred through December 31, 2002 totaled approximately $67 million. In 2002 SCE&G entered into an agreement with the South Carolina Transportation Infrastructure Bank (the Bank) and the South Carolina Department of Transportation (SCDOT) that allows SCE&G to borrow funds from the Bank to construct a roadbed for SCDOT in connection with the above Lake Murray dam remediation project. The loan agreement provides for interest free borrowings for costs incurred not to exceed $59 million, with such borrowings being repaid over ten years from the initial borrowing. At December 31, 2002 SCE&G had not yet borrowed under the agreement. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Electric Operations The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (CAA) required electric utilities to reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (NOx) substantially by the year 2000. The Company remains in compliance with these requirements. In 1998 the EPA required the State of South Carolina, among other states, to modify its state implementation plan (SIP) to address the issue of NOx pollution. The States SIP requires additional emissions reductions in 2004 and beyond. Further, the EPA has indicated that it will propose regulations by December 2003 for stricter limits on mercury and other toxic pollutants generated by coal fired plants. To comply with these state and federal regulations, SCE&G and GENCO expect to incur capital expenditures of approximately $131 million over the 2003 2007 period to retrofit existing facilities, with increased operation and maintenance costs of approximately $1.8 million per year. To meet compliance requirements for the years 2008 through 2012, the Company anticipates additional capital expenditures of approximately $125 million. The EPA has undertaken an aggressive enforcement initiative against the utilities industry, and the Department of Justice has brought suit against a number of utilities in federal court alleging violations of the CAA. Prior to the suits, those utilities had received requests for information under Section 114 of the CAA and were issued Notices of Violation. The basis for these suits is the assertion by the EPA that maintenance activities undertaken by the utilities over the past 20 or more years constitute "major modifications" which would have required the installation of costly Best Available Control Technology (BACT). The Company and SCE&G have received and responded to Section 114 requests for information related to Canadys, Wateree and Williams Stations. The regulations under the CAA provide certain exemptions to the definition of "major modifications," including an exemption for routine repair, replacement or maintenance. The Company has analyzed each of the activities covered by the EPAs requests and believes each of these activities is covered by the exemption for routine repair, replacement and maintenance. The regulations also provide an exemption for an increase in emissions resulting from increased hours of operation or production rate and from demand growth. It is possible that the EPA will commence enforcement actions against SCE&G, and the EPA has the authority to seek penalties at the rate of up to $27,500 per day for each violation. The EPA also could seek installation of BACT (or equivalent) at the three plants. The Company believes that any assertions relative to the Companys and SCE&Gs compliance with the CAA would be without merit. However, if successful, such assertions could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, cash flows and results of operations. The Clean Water Act, as amended, provides for the imposition of effluent limitations that require treatment for wastewater discharges. Under this Act, compliance with applicable limitations is achieved under a national permit program. Discharge permits have been issued for all and renewed for nearly all of SCE&Gs and GENCOs generating units. Concurrent with renewal of these permits, the permitting agency has implemented a more rigorous program of monitoring and controlling thermal discharges and strategies for toxicity reduction in wastewater streams. The Company is developing compliance plans for these initiatives. Congress is expected to consider further amendments to the Clean Water Act in 2003. Such legislation may include limitations to mixing zones, the implementation of technology based standards for main condenser cooling water including intake and discharge structures and toxicity based standards. These provisions, if passed, could have a material impact on the results of operations and cash flows of SCE&G and GENCO. Gas Distribution The Company maintains an environmental assessment program to identify and evaluate current and former operations sites that could require environmental cleanup. As site assessments are initiated, estimates are made of the amount of expenditures, if any, deemed necessary to investigate and clean up each site. These estimates are refined as additional information becomes available; therefore, actual expenditures could differ significantly from the original estimates. Amounts estimated and accrued to date for site assessments and cleanup relate solely to regulated operations and are recorded in deferred debits and amortized with recovery provided through rates. Deferred amounts for SCE&G, net of amounts previously recovered through rates and insurance settlements, totaled $17.9 million and $24.4 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The deferral includes the estimated costs associated with the following matters. o SCE&G owns a decommissioned MGP site in the Calhoun Park area of Charleston, South Carolina. The site is currently being remediated for benzene contamination in the intermediate aquifer on surrounding properties. SCE&G anticipates that the remaining remediation activities will be completed in 2003, with certain monitoring and retreatment activities continuing until 2007. As of December 31, 2002, SCE&G has spent approximately $18.4 million to remediate the Calhoun Park site. Total remediation costs are estimated to be $21.9 million. o SCE&G owns three other decommissioned MGP sites in South Carolina which contain residues of by product chemicals. Two of these sites are currently being remediated under work plans approved by DHEC. SCE&G is continuing to investigate the remaining site and is monitoring the nature and extent of residual contamination. SCE&G anticipates that major remediation activities for these three sites will be completed before 2006. SCE&G has spent approximately $2.2 million related to these sites, and expects to incur an additional $5.9 million. In addition, PSNC Energy owns, or has owned, all or portions of seven sites in North Carolina on which MGPs were formerly operated. Intrusive investigation (including drilling, sampling and analysis) has begun at two sites and the remaining sites have been evaluated using historical records and observations of current site conditions. These evaluations have revealed that MGP residuals are present or suspected at several of the sites. PSNC Energys actual remediation costs for these sites will depend on a number of factors, such as actual site conditions, third party claims and recoveries from other PRPs. In September 2002 an allocation agreement was reached relieving PSNC Energy of liability for two of the seven sites. PSNC Energy has recorded a liability and associated regulatory asset of $7.8 million, which reflects the estimated remaining liability at December 31, 2002. Amounts incurred to date that have not been recovered through gas rates are approximately $1.2 million. Management believes that all MGP cleanup costs incurred will be recoverable through gas rates. REGULATORY MATTERS STATE Regulated public utilities are allowed to record as assets some costs that would be expensed by other enterprises. If deregulation or other changes in the regulatory environment occur, the Company may no longer be eligible to apply this accounting treatment and may be required to eliminate such regulatory assets from its balance sheet. Although the potential effects of deregulation cannot be determined at present, discontinuation of the accounting treatment could have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations in the period the write off would be recorded. It is expected that cash flows and the financial position of the Company would not be materially affected by the discontinuation of the accounting treatment. The Company reported approximately $296 million and $114 million of regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively, including amounts recorded for deferred income tax assets and liabilities of approximately $137 million and $43 million, respectively, on its balance sheet at December 31, 2002. The Companys generation assets would be exposed to considerable financial risks in a deregulated electric market. If market prices for electric generation do not produce adequate revenue streams and the enabling legislation or regulatory actions do not provide for recovery of the resulting stranded costs, the Company could be required to write down its investment in these assets. The Company cannot predict whether any write downs will be necessary and, if they are, the extent to which they would adversely affect the Companys results of operations in the period in which they would be recorded. As of December 31, 2002 the Companys net investment in fossil and hydro and nuclear generation assets was approximately $1,921 million and $546 million, respectively. South Carolina Electric & Gas Company SCE&G is subject to the jurisdiction of the SCPSC as to retail electric and gas rates, service, accounting, issuance of securities (other than short term borrowings) and other matters. Electric In January 2003 the SCPSC issued an order granting SCE&G an increase in retail electric rates of 5.8% which is designed to produce additional annual revenues of approximately $70.7 million based on a test year calculation. The SCPSC authorized a return on common equity of 12.45%. The new rates were effective for service rendered on and after February 1, 2003. As a part of the order, the SCPSC extended through 2005 its approval of the accelerated capital recovery plan for SCE&Gs Cope Generating Station. Under the plan, SCE&G may increase depreciation of its Cope Generating Station in excess of amounts that would be recorded based upon currently approved depreciation rates, not to exceed $36 million annually, without the approval of the SCPSC. Any unused portion of the $36 million in any given year may be carried forward for possible use in the following year. On December 31, 2002 the SCPSC issued an order approving SCE&Gs request to capitalize the cost of fuel consumed in the production of test power for the gas turbines installed at Urquhart Generating Station in 2002. As a result, SCE&G transferred approximately $12.5 million from fuel used in electric generation to electric utility plant. In May 2002 the SCPSC issued an order approving SCE&Gs request to increase the fuel component of rates charged to electric customers from 1.579 cents per KWh to 1.722 cents per KWh. The increase reflects higher fuel costs projected for the period May 2002 through April 2003. The increase also provided continued recovery for under collected actual fuel costs through April 2001, including short term purchased power costs necessitated by outages at two of SCE&Gs base load generating plants in winter 2000 2001. The new rates were effective as of the first billing cycle in May 2002. In January 2003 in conjunction with the approval of the retail rate increase, the SCPSC approved SCE&Gs request to reduce the fuel component to 1.678 cents per KWh. Gas SCE&Gs rates are established using a cost of gas component approved by the SCPSC which may be modified periodically to reflect changes in the price of natural gas purchased by SCE&G. SCE&Gs cost of gas component in effect during the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 was as follows: Rate Per Therm Effective Date Rate Per Therm Effective Date $.596 January October 2002 $.993 January February 2001 $.728 November December 2002 $.793 March October 2001 $.596 November December 2001 In March 2003 the SCPSC issued an order approving SCE&Gs request for an out of period adjustment to increase the cost of gas component of its rates for natural gas service from $.728 per therm to $.928 per therm, effective with the first billing cycle in March 2003. In 1994 the SCPSC issued an order approving SCE&Gs request to recover through a billing surcharge to its gas customers the costs of environmental cleanup at the sites of former MGPs. The billing surcharge is subject to annual review and provides for the recovery of substantially all actual and projected site assessment and cleanup costs and environmental claims settlements for SCE&Gs gas operations that had previously been deferred. In October 2002, as a result of the annual review, the SCPSC reaffirmed SCE&Gs billing surcharge of 3.0 cents per therm, which is intended to provide for the recovery, prior to the end of the year 2005, of the balance remaining at December 31, 2002 of $17.9 million. Transit On October 15, 2002 SCE&G transferred its transit system to the City of Columbia, South Carolina (City). As part of the transfer agreement, SCE&G will pay the City $32 million over eight years in exchange for a 30 year electric and gas franchise, has conveyed transit related property and equipment to the City and has conveyed the 10 MW Columbia Canal and Hydroelectric Plant to the City. SCE&G will continue to operate the plant for the City until 2005. SCE&G will also pay the Central Midlands Regional Transit Authority up to $3 million as matching funds for Federal Transit Administration grants for the purchase of new transit coaches and a new transit facility. The cost of the franchise agreement is recorded in other regulatory assets. Public Service Company of North Carolina, Incorporated PSNC Energy is subject to the jurisdiction of the NCUC as to gas rates, issuance of securities (other than notes with a maturity of two years or less or renewals of notes with a maturity of six years or less), accounting and other matters. PSNC Energys rates are established using a benchmark cost of gas approved by the NCUC, which may be modified periodically to reflect changes in the market price of natural gas. PSNC Energy revises its tariffs with the NCUC as necessary to track these changes and accounts for any over or under collections of the deferred cost of gas in its deferred accounts for subsequent rate consideration. The NCUC reviews PSNC Energys gas purchasing practices annually. PSNC Energys benchmark cost of gas in effect during the years ended December 2002 and 2001 was as follows: Rate Per Therm Effective Date Rate Per Therm Effective Date $.300 January 2002 $.690 January 2001 $.215 February June 2002 $.750 February March 2001 $.350 July October 2002 $.650 April August 2001 $.410 November December 2002 $.500 September October 2001 $.350 November December 2001 On January 2, 2003 the NCUC approved PSNC Energys request to increase the benchmark cost of gas from $.410 to $.460 per therm effective for service rendered on and after January 1, 2003. On March 3, 2003 the NCUC approved PSNC Energys request to increase the benchmark cost of gas from $.460 to $.595 per therm effective March 1, 2003. In April 2000 the NCUC issued an order permanently approving PSNC Energys request to establish its commodity cost of gas for large commercial and industrial customers on the basis of market prices for natural gas. This mechanism allows PSNC Energy to collect from its customers amounts approximating the amounts paid for natural gas. A state expansion fund, established by the North Carolina General Assembly in 1991 and funded by refunds from PSNC Energys interstate pipeline transporters, provides financing for expansion into areas that otherwise would not be economically feasible to serve. In June 2000 the NCUC approved PSNC Energys requests for disbursement of up to $28.4 million from PSNC Energys expansion fund to extend natural gas service to Madison, Jackson and Swain Counties in western North Carolina. PSNC Energy estimates that the cost of this project will be approximately $31.4 million. The Madison County and Jackson County portions of the project were completed by the end of 2002. At December 31, 2002 approximately $16.9 million had been spent on this project. The unused portion of PSNC Energys expansion fund is recorded in prepaid assets. In December 1999 the NCUC issued an order approving SCANAs acquisition of PSNC Energy. As specified in the order, PSNC Energy reduced its rates by approximately $1 million in each of August 2000 and August 2001, and agreed to a moratorium on general rate cases until August 2005. General rate relief can be obtained during this period to recover costs associated with materially adverse governmental actions and force majeure events. South Carolina Pipeline Corporation SCPCs purchased gas adjustment for cost recovery and gas purchasing policies are reviewed annually by the SCPSC. In an August 2002 order, the SCPSC found that for the period January 2001 through March 2002 SCPCs gas purchasing policies and practices were prudent and that SCPC properly adhered to the gas cost recovery provisions of its gas tariff. REGULATORY MATTERS FEDERAL SCANA is a registered public utility holding company under PUHCA. SCANA and its subsidiaries are subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC as to financings, acquisitions and diversifications, affiliate transactions and other matters. A customary three year renewal of the Companys financing and other authorizations under PUHCA was received on February 12, 2003. The Companys regulated business operations were impacted by FERC Order No. 2000 and other related initiatives of the FERC. Order No. 2000 required each utility under FERC jurisdiction that operates an electric transmission system to submit plans for the possible formation of a regional transmission organization. In March 2001 FERC gave provisional approval to SCE&G and two other southeastern electric utilities to establish GridSouth as an independent regional transmission company, responsible for operating and planning the utilities combined transmission systems. In June 2002 GridSouth implementation was suspended pending the issuance and evaluation of new FERC directives. In July 2002 FERC issued a NOPR on Standard Market Design which proposes sweeping changes to the countrys existing regulatory framework governing transmission, open access and energy markets and which will attempt, in large measure, to standardize the national energy market. While it is anticipated that significant changes to the NOPR may occur and that implementation, presently scheduled for September 2004, may not occur for some time, any rules standardizing the markets may have significant impact on the Companys access to or cost of power for its native load customers and on the Companys marketing of power outside its service territory. The Company is currently evaluating this NOPR to determine what effect it will have on its operations. Additional directives from FERC are expected later in 2003. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Following are descriptions of the Companys accounting policies which are new or most critical in terms of reporting financial condition or results of operations. SFAS 71 The Companys regulated utilities are subject to the provisions of SFAS 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation," which require them to record certain assets and liabilities that defer the recognition of expenses and revenues to future periods as a result of being rate regulated. At December 31, 2002 the Company had recorded approximately $296 million and $114 million of regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively, including amounts recorded for deferred income tax assets and liabilities. Management believes the regulatory assets are recoverable through rates. The state commissions which regulate the utilities have reviewed and approved most of the items shown as regulatory assets through specific orders. Other items represent costs which were not yet approved for recovery by the state commissions. In recording these costs as regulatory assets, management believes the costs will be allowable under existing rate making concepts that are embodied in current rate orders received by the Company. However, ultimate recovery is subject to state commission approval. In the future, as a result of deregulation or other changes in the regulatory environment, the Company may no longer meet the criteria for continued application of SFAS 71 and could be required to write off its regulatory assets and liabilities. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of the Companys Electric Distribution and Gas Distribution segments in the period the write off would be recorded. It is not expected that cash flows or financial position would be materially affected. Certain of the Companys regulatory assets and liabilities arise from its environmental assessment program, which identifies and evaluates current and former operations sites that could require environmental cleanup. As site assessments are initiated, estimates are made of the amount of expenditures, if any, deemed necessary to investigate and clean up each site. These estimates are refined as additional information becomes available; therefore, actual expenditures could differ significantly from the original estimates. Regulatory assets and liabilities related to environmental cleanup affect primarily the Gas Distribution segment and are due to the costs associated with current and former MGP sites. Revenue Recognition / Unbilled Revenues Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or when energy is delivered to customers. Because customers of our utilities and retail gas operations are billed on cycles which vary based on the timing of the actual reading of their electric and gas meters, we record estimates for unbilled revenues at the end of each reporting period. Such unbilled revenue amounts reflect estimates of the amount of energy delivered to each customer since the date of the last reading of their respective meters. Such unbilled revenues reflect consideration of estimated usage by customer class, the effects of different rate schedules, changes in weather and, where applicable, the impact of weather normalization provisions of rate structures. The accrual of unbilled revenues in this manner properly matches revenues and related costs. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, accounts receivable include unbilled revenues of $107.7 million and $81.1 million, respectively. Total revenues for 2002 and 2001 were $2.95 billion and $3.45 billion, respectively. Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFC) AFC, a noncash item, reflects the period cost of capital devoted to plant under construction. This accounting practice results in the inclusion of, as a component of construction cost, the costs of debt and equity capital dedicated to construction investment. AFC is included in rate base investment and is depreciated as a component of plant cost in establishing rates for utility services. The Companys regulated subsidiaries calculated AFC using composite rates of 8.3%, 8.8% and 8.3% for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. These rates do not exceed the maximum allowable rate as calculated under FERC Order No. 561. Interest on nuclear fuel in process is capitalized at the actual interest amount incurred. AFC primarily affects the Electric Operations segment due to its capital intensive construction program, and to a lesser extent, AFC affects the Gas Distribution and Gas Transmission segments. AFC represented approximately 9.1% of income before income taxes, gains, losses, impairments and the cumulative effect of an accounting change in 2002, 7.2% in 2001 and 2.3% in 2000. Because the equity component of AFC is not taxable, increased AFC reduces the Companys effective tax rate. See Results of Operations for additional discussion. Provisions for Bad Debts and Allowances for Doubtful Accounts As of each balance sheet date, the Company evaluates the collectibility of accounts receivable and records allowances for doubtful accounts based on estimates of the level of actual write offs which might be experienced. These estimates are based on, among other things, comparisons of the relative age of accounts and consideration of actual write off history. The distribution segments of the Companys regulated utilities have an established write off history, and the regulated service areas enable the utilities to reliably estimate their respective provision for bad debts. The Companys Retail Gas Marketing segment operates in Georgias natural gas market. As such, estimation of the provision for bad debts related to this segment is subject to greater imprecision. In 2002, the Retail Gas Marketing segment expensed approximately $6.2 million related to bad debt, which represents approximately 1.6% of its gross revenue. Had an additional 1% of gross revenues been reserved for bad debts, net income in 2002 would have been reduced by approximately $2.4 million. Nuclear Decommissioning Accounting for decommissioning costs for nuclear power plants involves significant estimates related to costs to be incurred many years in the future. Among the factors that could change SCE&Gs accounting estimates related to decommissioning costs are changes in technology, changes in regulatory and environmental remediation requirements, as well as changes in financial assumptions such as discount rates and timing of cash flows. See also the discussion of the Companys adoption of SFAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations," below. Changes in any of these estimates could significantly impact the Companys financial position and cash flows (although changes in such estimates should be earnings neutral, because these costs are expected to be collected from ratepayers). SCE&Gs share of estimated site specific nuclear decommissioning costs for Summer Station, including the cost of decommissioning plant components not subject to radioactive contamination, totals approximately $357 million, stated in 1999 dollars, based on a decommissioning study completed in 2000. Santee Cooper is responsible for decommissioning costs related to its one third ownership interest in the station. The cost estimate is based on a decommissioning methodology acceptable to the NRC under which the site would be maintained over a period of approximately 60 years in such a manner as to allow for subsequent decontamination that permits release for unrestricted use. SCE&Gs method of funding decommissioning costs is referred to as COMReP (Cost of Money Reduction Plan). Under this plan, funds collected through rates are used to pay premiums on insurance policies on the lives of certain Company personnel. SCE&G is the beneficiary of these policies. Through these insurance contracts, SCE&G is able to take advantage of income tax benefits and accrue earnings on the fund on a tax deferred basis. Amounts for decommissioning collected through electric rates, insurance proceeds, and interest on proceeds, less expenses, are transferred by SCE&G to an external trust fund. Management intends for the fund, including earnings thereon, to provide for all eventual decommissioning expenditures on an after tax basis. Pension Accounting SCANA follows SFAS 87, "Employers Accounting for Pensions," in accounting for its defined benefit pension plan. SCANAs plan is fully funded and as such, net pension income is reflected in the financial statements (see Results of Operations). SFAS 87 requires the use of several assumptions, the selection of which may have a large impact on the resulting benefit recorded. Among the more sensitive assumptions are those surrounding discount rates and returns on assets. Net pension income of $25.8 million recorded in 2002 reflects the use of a 7.5% discount rate and an assumed 9.5% long term return on plan assets. SCANA believes that these assumptions were, and that the resulting pension income amount was, reasonable. Due to poor performance in the stock market in recent years, the Company has determined to adjust its assumed long term return on assets to 9.25% for 2003. Lower interest rates have also led to a reduction in the discount rate as of December 31, 2002 to 6.5%. Had those assumptions been in place in 2002, net pension income would have been reduced by approximately $5.3 million. In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Company considers the market indices of high quality long term fixed income securities. As such, the Company selected the above discount rate of 6.5% as being within a reasonable range of Moodys "Aa" interest rate as of December 31, 2002. This same discount rate was also selected for determination of OPEB liabilities discussed below. The following information with respect to pension assets should also be noted: The Company determines the fair value of substantially all of its pension assets utilizing market quotes rather than utilizing any calculated values, "market related" values or other modeling techniques. In developing the expected long term rate of return assumptions, the Company evaluated input from actuaries and from pension fund investment advisors, including such advisors review of the plans historical 10, 16 and 24 year cumulative actual returns of 10.15%, 10.80% and 12.32%, respectively, which have all been in excess of related broad indices. The Company anticipates that investment managers will continue to generate long term returns of at least 9.25%. The expected long term rate of return of 9.25% is based on an asset allocation of 80% with equity managers and 20% with fixed income managers. While management believes that the asset allocation will return to those levels, because of market fluctuations, the actual asset allocation as of December 31, 2002 was 70% with equity managers and 30% with fixed income managers. Management regularly reviews such allocations and periodically rebalances the portfolio to the targeted allocation when considered appropriate. While the recent investment performance and the decline in discount rate have significantly reduced the level of pension income, the pension trust has been and remains adequately funded, and no contributions have been required since 1997. As such, recent declines in pension income have had no impact on the Companys cash flows. Based on stress testing performed by the Companys actuaries, management does not anticipate the need to make pension contributions until at least 2008. Accounting for Postretirement Benefits other than Pensions Similar to its pension accounting, SCANA follows SFAS 106, "Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," in accounting for its postretirement medical and life insurance benefits. This plan is unfunded, so no assumptions related to return on assets impact the net expense recorded; however, the selection of discount rates can significantly impact the actuarial determination of net expense. SCANA used a discount rate of 7.5% and recorded a net SFAS 106 cost of $18.3 million for 2002. Had the selected discount rate been 6.5%, the expense for 2002 would have been approximately $1.2 million higher. SFAS 142 In connection with the adoption of SFAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," the Company performed a valuation analysis of its investment in SCPC (Gas Transmission segment) using a discounted cash flow analysis and of PSNC Energy (Gas Distribution segment) using an independent appraisal. The analysis for SCPC indicated that the fair value of related goodwill exceeded its carrying amount. The independent appraisal made various assumptions related to cash flow projections, discount rates, weighted average cost of capital and market multiples for comparable companies. The analysis indicated that the carrying amount of PSNC Energys acquisition adjustment (goodwill) exceeded its fair value, and as a result, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $230 million as the cumulative effect of an accounting change, effective January 1, 2002. SFAS 142 requires the Company to perform valuation analyses annually. Such analyses will incorporate updated assumptions similar to those used for the initial valuations. SFAS 143 SFAS 143 provides guidance for recording and disclosing liabilities related to the future obligations to retire assets (ARO). SFAS 143 applies to the legal obligation associated with the retirement of long lived tangible assets that result from acquisition, construction, development and normal operations. The Company adopted SFAS 143 effective January 1, 2003. Because such obligation relates solely to the Companys regulated electric utility, adoption of SFAS 143 will have no impact on results of operations; however, the Company will record an ARO of approximately $110 million, which exceeds the previously recorded reserve for nuclear plant decommissioning of approximately $87 million. In addition to the ARO for Summer Station, the Company believes that there is legal uncertainty as to the existence of environmental obligations associated with certain transmission and distribution properties. The Company believes that any ARO related to this type of property would be insignificant and, due to the indeterminate life of the related assets, an ARO could not be reasonably estimated. The Companys regulated operations record cost of removal as a component of accumulated depreciation for property that does not have an associated legal retirement obligation. As of December 31, 2002, the Company estimates that approximately $325 million of its accumulated depreciation balance is related to this regulatory liability. OTHER MATTERS Unconsolidated Special Purpose Entities Although SCANA invests in securities and business ventures, it does not hold investments in unconsolidated special purpose entities such as those described in SFAS 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities," and it does not engage in off balance sheet financing or similar transactions other than incidental operating leases in the normal course of business, generally for office space, furniture and equipment. Synthetic Fuel Investments SCE&G holds two equity method investments in partnerships involved in converting coal to non conventional fuel, the use of which fuel qualifies for federal income tax credits. The aggregate investment in these partnerships as of December 31, 2002 is approximately $2 million, and through December 31, 2002, they had generated and passed through to SCE&G approximately $58 million in such tax credits. Under a plan approved by the SCPSC, any tax credits generated and ultimately passed through to SCE&G from synfuel produced and consumed by SCE&G have been and will be deferred and will be applied to offset the capital costs of projects required to comply with legislative or regulatory actions. See Note 1B of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear License Extension In August 2002 SCE&G filed an application with the NRC for a 20 year license extension for its Summer Station. If approved, the extension would allow the plant to operate through 2042. SCE&G estimates that it will incur approximately $12 million in costs related to the application process. Radio Service Network In April 2002 SCI sold its 800 Mhz radio service network within South Carolina to Motorola, Inc. Claims and Litigation In 1999 an unsuccessful bidder for the purchase of propane gas assets of SCANA filed suit against SCANA in South Carolina Circuit Court, seeking unspecified damages. The suit alleges the existence of a contract for the sale of assets to the plaintiff and various causes of action associated with that contract. The Company is confident in its position and intends to vigorously defend the lawsuit. The Company does not believe that the resolution of this issue will have a material impact on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. In 2001 the Company entered into, in the ordinary course of business, a 15 year take and pay contract with an unaffiliated natural gas supplier (Supplier) to purchase 190,000 DT of natural gas per day beginning in the spring of 2004. In December 2002, as a result of the failure of Supplier and its guarantor to meet contractual obligations related to credit support provisions, the Company terminated the contract. Attempts to negotiate a new contract between the parties were not successful. In February 2003, the Company received notification from Supplier of its request for binding arbitration under the original contract. The Company is confident of the propriety of its actions and will vigorously pursue its position in such arbitration proceedings. The Company further believes that the resolution of these claims will not have a material adverse impact on its results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. The Company is also engaged in various other claims and litigation incidental to its business operations which management anticipates will be resolved without material loss to the Company. Telecommunications Investments At December 31, 2002 SCH, a wholly owned, indirect subsidiary of SCANA, held investments in the marketable equity and debt securities of the following companies in the amounts noted in the following table. Investee Securities Basis (Millions of dollars) ITC Holding 3.1 million shares common stock $5.8 645,153 shares series A preferred stock, convertible into 2.6 million shares of common stock 7.2 133,664 shares series B preferred stock, convertible into 534,656 shares of common stock 4.0 ITC^DeltaCom 566,010 shares of common stock 1.1 149,077 shares series A 8% preferred stock, convertible in 2005 into 2.6 million shares of common stock 12.7 Warrants to purchase 506,861.8 shares of common stock 1.1 Knology 7.2 million shares series A preferred stock, convertible into 7.5 million shares of common stock 14.1 14.8 million shares series C preferred stock, convertible into 14.8 million shares of common stock 35.1 21.7 million shares series E preferred stock, convertible into 21.7 million shares of common stock 40.6 $43.6 million face amount, 12% senior unsecured notes due 2009, including accrued interest 43.6 In 2002 SCH sold the 39.3 million shares it held in DTAG through a series of market transactions. See additional information at Results of Operations. ITC Holding Company (ITC Holding) holds ownership interests in several Southeastern communications companies. As these securities are not actively traded, determination of their fair value is not practicable. ITC^DeltaCom, Inc. (ITC^DeltaCom) is a regional provider of telecommunications services. Knology, Inc. (Knology) is a broadband service provider of cable television, telephone and internet services. In June 2002 ITC^DeltaCom announced plans for a reorganization and entered into Chapter 11 bankruptcy. As a result the Company wrote off its investments in ITC^DeltaCom in the second quarter and recorded an aggregate impairment charge of approximately $7.0 million (after tax). The bankruptcy court accepted the reorganization plan, and ITC^DeltaCom emerged from bankruptcy on October 29, 2002. In connection with ITC^DeltaComs emergence from bankruptcy, SCH provided $14.9 million in preferred equity financing. The common shares owned by SCH have a market value of $1.3 million, thus an unrealized gain of $0.2 million has been recorded in Other Comprehensive Income. The preferred shares owned by SCH are classified as held to maturity due to their debt features, and the market value is not readily determinable. In July 2002 Knology negotiated a potential exchange of its Knology Broadband discount notes for a combination of new notes and new preferred stock. In contemplation of the anticipated exchange, the Company recorded an impairment loss of approximately $0.3 million (after tax) in the second quarter. Because the exchange offer did not result in the requisite minimum tender of notes, in the third quarter Knology filed a prepackaged Chapter 11 bankruptcy plan which reflected the same terms of exchange. The bankruptcy court accepted the reorganization plan, and in connection with Knologys emergence from bankruptcy, SCH purchased an additional 6.5 million shares of series C preferred stock for approximately $19.5 million. The market value of Knology securities as of December 31, 2002 is not readily determinable. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Earnings (Loss) and Dividends Earnings (loss) per share of common stock and cash dividends declared for 2002, 2001 and 2000 were as follows: 2002 2001 2000 Earnings (loss) derived from: Continuing operations $2.38 $2.15 $2.12 Gains from sales of investments and assets .24 3.42 Investment impairments (1.79) (.42) Cumulative effects of accounting changes, net of taxes (2.17) .28 Earnings (loss) per weighted average share $(1.34) $5.15 $2.40 Cash dividends declared (per share) $1.30 $1.20 $1.15 o 2002 vs 2001 Earnings derived from continuing operations increased $.23 primarily due to improved margins from sales of electricity of $.36, lower interest expense of $.14, improved results from non regulated subsidiaries of $.08, increased allowance for funds used during construction of $.06, lower depreciation and amortization expense of $.02 and other items totaling $.03. These factors were partially offset by higher operations and maintenance expense of $.24 (including $.07 due to lower pension income), lower gas margins of $.15 and higher property taxes of $.07. o 2001 vs 2000 Earnings derived from continuing operations increased $.03, primarily as a result of improved results from retail gas marketing of $.03, improved results from energy marketing of $.09, completion of repairs at Summer Station in 2000 of $.04, the elimination of the imputed interest expense related to the PSNC Energy acquisition in 2000 of $.05 and other items totaling $.02. These improvements were partially offset by a decrease in electric margin of $.11 and a decrease in regulated gas margin of $.09. In 2002 the Company recorded an impairment charge of $1.72 per share related to the other than temporary decline in market value of the Companys investment in DTAG. In addition, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $.07 per share related to the other than temporary decline in market value of its investment in ITC^DeltaCom (see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Also, as required by SFAS 142 the Company recorded as the cumulative effect of an accounting change an impairment charge of $2.17 per share related to the acquisition adjustment associated with PSNC Energy (see Note 1G of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). In addition, the Company recognized gains of $.09 per share from the sale of the Companys radio service network and $.15 per share in connection with its sale of DTAG shares. In 2001 the Company recognized a gain of $3.38 per share in connection with the exchange of its investment in Powertel, which was acquired by DTAG in May 2001. The Company also recognized a gain of $.04 per share in connection with the sale of the assets of SCANA Security in March 2001. The Company also recorded impairment charges related to investments in ITC^DeltaCom of $.34 per share, a developer of micro turbine technology of $.04 per share and a lime production plant of $.04 per share. In 2000 the cumulative effect of an accounting change resulted from the initial recording of unbilled revenues by SCANAs retail utility subsidiaries (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Pension Income For the last several years, the market value of the Companys retirement plan (pension) assets has exceeded the total actuarial present value of accumulated plan benefits. However, pension income for 2002 decreased significantly compared to 2001 and 2000, primarily as a result of a less favorable investment market. Pension income during these periods, excluding amounts attributable to Santee Cooper (see Note 5), was recorded on the Companys financial statements as follows: Millions of dollars 2002 2001 2000 Income Statement Impact: Reduction in employee benefit costs $10.9 $22.6 $22.6 Increase in other income 11.1 12.7 12.8 Balance Sheet Impact: Reduction in capital expenditures 3.1 6.2 5.8 Increase in amount due to Santee Cooper .7 1.8 2.0 Total Pension Income $25.8 $43.3 $43.2 See also the discussion of pension accounting in Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards. Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFC) The Companys financial statements include the effects of the recording of AFC. AFC is a utility accounting practice whereby a portion of the cost of both equity and borrowed funds used to finance construction (which is shown on the balance sheet as construction work in progress) is capitalized. An equity portion of AFC is included in nonoperating income and a debt portion of AFC is included in interest charges (credits) as noncash items, both of which have the effect of increasing reported net income. AFC represented approximately 9.1% of income before income taxes, gains, losses, impairments and the cumulative effect of an accounting change in 2002, 7.2% in 2001 and 2.3% in 2000. Electric Operations Electric Operations is comprised of the electric portion of SCE&G, GENCO and Fuel Company. Electric operations sales margins (including transactions with affiliates) for 2002, 2001 and 2000, excluding the cumulative effect of accounting change in 2000, were as follows: Millions of dollars 2002 2001 2000 Operating revenues $1,379.5 $1,368.7 $1,343.8 Less: Fuel used in generation (329.6) (283.3) (294.9) Purchased power (42.1) (138.1) (82.5) Margin $1,007.8 $947.3 $966.4 o 2002 vs 2001 Margin increased $31.9 million due to more favorable weather and $30.5 million due to customer growth. Fuel used in generation increased and purchased power decreased due to completion of the Urquhart Station repowering project in June 2002 and fewer plant outages during 2002. o 2001 vs 2000 Sales margin decreased $32.1 million due to milder weather and $12.6 million due to the impact of the slowing economy. These decreases were partially offset by $25.6 million from customer growth. Increases (decreases) from the prior year in MWh sales volume by classes were as follows: Classification (in thousands) 2002 % Change 2001 % Change Residential 735.6 11.3% (170.5) (2.5%) Commercial 370.5 5.9% (16.8) Industrial 158.0 2.5% (317.7) (4.8%) Sales for resale (excluding interchange) 333.7 29.9% (108.3) (8.8%) Other 1.1 0.2% (18.9) (3.4%) Total territorial 1,598.9 7.7% (632.2) (3.0%) NMST (1,441.7) (67.1%) 208.0 10.0% Total 157.2 0.7% (424.2) (2.0%) o 2002 vs 2001 Territorial sales volume increased primarily due to more favorable weather. The decrease in NMST volumes reflects the Companys recording of buy resale transactions in Other Income in 2002. o 2001 vs 2000 Territorial sales volume decreased primarily due to milder weather. Gas Distribution Gas Distribution is comprised of the local distribution operations of SCE&G and PSNC Energy. Gas distribution sales margins (including transactions with affiliates) for 2002, 2001 and 2000, excluding the cumulative effect of accounting change in 2000, were as follows: Millions of dollars 2002 2001 2000 Operating revenues $653.9 $793.6 $745.9 Less: Gas purchased for resale (401.0) (537.8) (486.3) Margin $252.9 $255.8 $259.6 Sales margin decreased slightly over the three year period primarily as a result of the slowing economy and increased competition with alternate fuels. Increases (decreases) from the prior year in DT sales volume by classes, including transportation gas, were as follows: Classification (in thousands) 2002 % Change 2001 % Change Residential 3,707.2 11.6% (7,068.1) (18.1%) Commercial 1,344.2 5.7% (2,613.2) (10.0%) Industrial 1,668.4 8.5% (2,860.0) (12.7%) Transportation gas 1,986.2 7.0% (3,318.6) (10.5%) Sales for resale 0.1 6.1% 1.0 * Total 8,706.1 8.4% (15,858.9) (13.3%) *Not meaningful o 2002 vs 2001 Residential and commercial sales volume increased primarily due to more favorable weather. Industrial and transportation gas volumes increased in 2002 after the volatility of the natural gas market in 2001 had resulted in interruptible customers using their alternate fuel sources during that year. o 2001 vs 2000 Residential sales volume decreased due to higher gas prices. Industrial and transportation gas decreased due to the volatility of the natural gas market resulting in interruptible customers using alternate fuel sources. Gas Transmission Gas Transmission is comprised of the operations of SCPC. Gas transmission sales margins (including transactions with affiliates) for 2002, 2001 and 2000 were as follows: Millions of dollars 2002 2001 2000 Operating revenues $479.1 $478.0 $489.0 Less: Gas purchased for resale (442.4) (434.1) (434.7) Margin $36.7 $43.9 $54.3 o 2002 vs 2001 Sales margin decreased $9.6 million due to the unfavorable competitive position of natural gas relative to alternate fuels in the first quarter, which was partially offset by a favorable competitive position in the remaining quarters of $1.4 million and increased sales for electric generation of $1.0 million. o 2001 vs 2000 Sales margin decreased primarily as a result of decreased volume of sales to industrial customers due to competitive pricing of alternate fuels and a slowing economy of $8.5 million, decreased volume of sales to electric generation due to milder weather of $1.4 million and reduced margins in sales for resale as a result of milder weather of $0.5 million. Increases (decreases) from the prior year in DT sales volume by classes including transportation were as follows: Classification (in thousands) 2002 % Change 2001 % Change Commercial 46.1 64.5% (42.2) (37.2%) Industrial 17,402.5 59.6% (10,127.6) (25.8%) Transportation 770.2 25.8% 725.1 32.1% Sales for resale 4,299.7 8.2% (9,529.6) (15.3%) Total 22,518.5 26.5% (18,974.3) (18.3%) o 2002 vs 2001 Industrial volumes increased 3,732.2 thousand DTs due to increased electric generation and 4,395.8 thousand DTs due to the emergence from bankruptcy of a large industrial customer. The remaining increase is primarily due to improved competition with alternate fuels. Sales for resale volumes increased due to more favorable weather. o 2001 vs 2000 Commercial and industrial volumes decreased primarily due to increased gas to gas competition. Transportation volumes increased due to increased gas to gas competition. Sales for resale volumes decreased due to milder weather. Retail Gas Marketing Retail Gas Marketing is comprised of SCANA Energy, a division of SCANA Energy Marketing, Inc., which operates in Georgias natural gas market. Retail Gas Marketing revenues and net income for 2002, 2001 and 2000 were as follows: Millions of dollars 2002 2001 2000 Operating revenues $379.5 $453.8 $412.8 Net income 14.3 6.8 3.2 o 2002 vs 2001 Operating revenues decreased primarily as a result of lower average retail prices and lower volumes. Net income increased primarily due to lower bad debt expense of $8.1 million, lower interest and depreciation expense of $1.6 million and lower effective tax rate of $0.8 million, which were partially offset by a decrease in gas margin of $2.1 million and higher operating expenses of $0.9 million. o 2001 vs 2000 Operating revenues increased due to higher average retail prices. Net income increased primarily as a result of increases in gross margins on gas sales. Delivered volumes for 2002, 2001 and 2000 totaled approximately 33.8 million, 36.0 million and 43.1 million DT, respectively. Energy Marketing Energy Marketing is comprised of the Companys non regulated marketing operations, excluding SCANA Energy. Energy Marketing operating revenues and net income (loss) for 2002, 2001 and 2000 were as follows: Millions of dollars 2002 2001 2000 Operating revenues $316.8 $613.4 $677.9 Net income (loss) (.8) 3.4 (3.1) o 2002 vs 2001 Operating revenues decreased primarily due to lower natural gas prices and lower volumes. Net income decreased $5.3 million primarily from the decreased activity and subsequent closing of SCANA Energy Trading, LLC and $1.7 million due to lower margins related to decreased gas prices and decreased volumes. These decreases were partially offset by increases of $1.3 million due to the closing of the unprofitable Midwest office in 2001 and $1.5 million lower bad debt expense. o 2001 vs 2000 Operating revenues decreased $104.8 million primarily due to the closing of the Midwest and California offices in 2001, which was partially offset $40.3 million by higher average retail prices. Net income improved primarily due to improved margins. Delivered volumes for 2002, 2001 and 2000 totaled approximately 86.2 million, 114.6 million and 149.6 million DT, respectively. The decrease in volumes for 2001 resulted from the closing of the Midwest and California offices. Other Operating Expenses Increases (decreases) in other operating expenses were as follows: Millions of dollars 2002 % Change 2001 % Change Other operation and maintenance $41.4 8.6% $3.5 0.7% Depreciation and amortization (3.8) (1.7%) 7.2 3.3% Other taxes 11.6 10.1% 1.5 21.3% Total $49.2 6.0% $12.2 1.5% o 2002 vs 2001 Other operation and maintenance expenses increased primarily due to lower pension income of $11.6 million, increased labor and benefits of $19.2 million, increased nuclear refueling maintenance of $4.0 million, increased cost at Cogen South of $3.1 million, higher property insurance of $2.6 million, increased amortization of environmental costs of $3.0 million and increased storm damage expenses of $1.8 million. These increases were partially offset by lower bad debt expense of $7.0 million. Depreciation and amortization decreased primarily due to implementation of SFAS 142 and the resulting elimination of amortization expense related to goodwill of $14.0 million see Note 1G of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which was partially offset by increases for the completion of the Urquhart Station repowering project in June 2002 of $4.8 million and normal net property additions of $5.4 million. Other taxes increased primarily due to increased property taxes. o 2001 vs 2000 Other operation and maintenance expenses increased primarily as a result of increases in employee benefits. Depreciation and amortization increased primarily as a result of normal increases in utility plant. Other taxes increased primarily due to increased property taxes. Other Income Increases (decreases) in other income, excluding the equity component of AFC, were as follows: Millions of dollars 2002 % Change 2001 % Change Gain on sale of investments $(521.7) * $545.3 * Gain on sale of assets 4.1 33.3% 10.5 * Impairment of investments (228.8) * (61.9) * Other income 8.6 21.7% 0.4 1.0% Total $(737.8) * $494.3 * *Not meaningful o 2002 vs 2001 Gain on sale of investments was higher in 2001 than 2002 primarily as a result of the gain of $545.3 million recognized in May 2001 in connection with the exchange of the Companys investment in Powertel for shares of DTAG, and the March 2001 gain of $7.8 million on the sale of the assets of SCANA Security. In 2002, the Company recognized gains of $15.6 million and $23.6 million in connection with the sale of the Companys radio service network and the sale of all DTAG stock. Impairment of investments increased due to the impairment writedowns of the Companys investments in DTAG and ITC^DeltaCom. o 2001 vs 2000 Other income increased primarily as a result of the gain recognized in May 2001 in connection with the exchange of the Companys investment in Powertel for shares of DTAG, and the March 2001 gain on the sale of the assets of SCANA Security. These gains were partially offset by impairments related to investments in ITC^DeltaCom, a developer of micro turbine technology and a lime production plant. Interest Expense Increases (decreases) in interest expense, excluding the debt component of AFC, were as follows: Millions of dollars 2002 % Change 2001 % Change Interest on long term debt, net $(18.8) (8.4%) $17.8 8.6% Other interest expense (4.0) (39.6%) (14.4) (58.8)% Total $(22.8) (9.8%) $3.4 1.5% o 2002 vs 2001 Interest expense decreased by $18.8 million as a result of lower interest rates, by $2.0 million due to decreased borrowings and by $1.4 million due to lower amortization of debt expense which occurred as a result of debt payoffs. o 2001 vs 2000 Interest expense increased by $20.0 million due to increased borrowings. Such increase was partially offset by decreases of $6.0 million due to declining variable interest rates, $5.2 million due to the Companys use of interest rate swap contracts to convert higher fixed rate debt to lower variable rate debt and by $5.4 million due to a decrease in the principal and weighted average interest rate on short term debt. Income Taxes Income taxes decreased approximately $268.9 million in 2002 compared to 2001 and increased approximately $163.8 million in 2001 compared to 2000. Changes in income taxes are primarily due to changes in Other Income described above. The Companys effective tax rate for 2002, excluding the cumulative effect of accounting change, was approximately 26.7%, which reflects the impact of higher equity AFC and the change in tax regulations effective in 2002 allowing for the tax deductibility of certain dividends paid on SCANA stock held in the Companys Stock Purchase Savings Plan . ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK All financial instruments held by the Company described below are held for purposes other than trading. Interest rate risk The tables below provide information about long term debt issued by the Company and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations the tables present principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. For interest rate swaps, the figures shown reflect notional amounts and related maturities. Fair values for debt and swaps represent quoted market prices. December 31, 2002 Expected Maturity Date Millions of dollars Liabilities 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Total Fair Value Long Term Debt: Fixed Rate ($) 313.3 201.9 196.8 177.3 71.3 2,174.2 3,134.8 3,267.2 Average Fixed Interest Rate (%) 7.26 7.51 7.37 8.47 6.94 6.73 6.97 Variable Rate ($) 100.0 150.0 250.0 249.3 Average Variable Interest Rate 3.11 2.71 2.87 (%) Interest Rate Swaps: Pay Variable/Receive Fixed ($) 7.5 57.5 3.2 3.2 28.2 241.0 340.6 9.0 Average Pay Interest Rate (%) 6.17 6.13 4.59 4.59 4.60 3.05 3.79 Average Receive Interest Rate 9.47 7.70 8.75 8.75 7.11 6.21 6.65 (%) December 31, 2001 Expected Maturity Date Millions of dollars Liabilities 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter Total Fair Value Long Term Debt: Fixed Rate ($) 38.3 298.5 187.0 182.0 162.8 1,728.0 2,596.6 2,602.8 Average Fixed Interest Rate (%) 7.21 6.38 7.58 7.43 8.63 7.02 6.64 Variable Rate ($) 700.0 202.0 902.0 898.2 Average Variable Interest Rate 2.82 3.45 (%) 2.96 Interest Rate Swaps: Pay Variable/Receive Fixed ($) 4.3 7.5 7.5 3.2 3.2 319.2 344.9 1.2 Average Pay Interest Rate (%) 7.82 6.73 6.73 5.26 5.26 3.08 3.34 Average Receive Interest Rate 10.0 9.47 9.47 8.75 8.75 6.46 6.68 (%) While a decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of debt, it is unlikely that events which would result in a realized loss will occur. In addition, at December 31, 2002 the Company held investments in the 12% senior unsecured notes (due 2009) of a telecommunications company, the cost basis of which, including accrued interest, is approximately $43.6 million. As these notes are not actively traded, determination of their fair value is not practicable. Commodity price risk The tables below provide information about the Companys financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in natural gas prices. Weighted average settlement prices are per 10,000 mmbtu. Fair values represent quoted market prices. As of December 31, 2002 Millions of dollars, except weighted average settlement price and strike price Natural Gas Derivatives: Expected Maturity in 2003 Settlement Contract Fair Price (a) Amount Value Futures Contracts: Long($) 4.65 15.6 18.7 Short($) 4.62 3.6 4.5 Strike Contract Price Amount (a) Options: Purchased put (short)($) 4.25 8.8 Purchased call (long)($) 4.11 16.5 Sold put (long) ($) 2.30 2.7 As of December 31, 2001 Millions of dollars, except weighted average settlement price Natural Gas Derivatives: Expected Maturity in 2002 Expected Maturity in 2003 Settlement Contract Fair Settlement Contract Fair Price (a) Amount Value Price (a) Amount Value Futures Contracts: Long($) 2.63 119.3 76.0 3.26 3.0 2.6 Short($) 2.64 1.6 1.1 (a) weighted average The Company uses derivative instruments to hedge forward purchases and sales of natural gas, which create market risks of various types. Instruments designated as cash flow hedges are used to hedge risks associated with fixed price obligations in a volatile market and risks associated with price differentials at different delivery locations. The basic types of financial instruments utilized are exchange traded instruments, such as NYMEX futures contracts or options, and over the counter instruments such as swaps, which are typically offered by energy and financial institutions. Policies and procedures and risk limits are established to control the level of market, credit, liquidity and operational and administrative risks assumed by the Company. The Companys Board of Directors has delegated to a Risk Management Committee the authority to set risk limits, establish policies and procedures for risk management and measurement, and oversee and review the risk management process and infrastructure. The Risk Management Committee, which is comprised of certain officers, including the Companys Risk Management Officer, and senior officers of the Company, provides assurance to the Board of Directors with regard to the management of risk and brings to the Boards attention any areas of concern. Written policies define the physical and financial transactions that are approved, as well as the authorization requirements and limits for transactions that are allowed. The NYMEX futures information above includes those financial positions of both Energy Marketing and SCPC. Certain derivatives that SCPC utilizes to hedge its gas purchasing activities are recoverable through its weighted average cost of gas calculation. SCPCs tariffs include a purchased gas adjustment (PGA) clause that provides for the recovery of actual gas costs incurred. The SCPSC has ruled that the results of SCPCs hedging activities are to be included in the PGA. The offset to the change in fair value of these derivatives is recorded as a regulatory asset or liability. Beginning in January 2003, PSNC Energy initiated a hedging program for gas purchasing activities using NYMEX futures and options. PSNC Energys tariffs include a PGA clause that provides for the recovery of actual gas costs incurred. PSNC Energy will include in its PGA the results of its hedging program, and will seek approval of this accounting treatment from the NCUC during the annual prudence review in 2003. The offset to the change in fair value of these derivatives will be recorded as a regulatory asset or liability. Equity price risk Investments in telecommunications companies equity securities (excluding preferred stock with significant debt characteristics) are carried at market value or, if market value is not readily determinable, at cost. The carrying value of the Companys investments in such securities totaled $109.1 million at December 31, 2002. A temporary decline in value of ten percent would result in a $10.9 million reduction in fair value and a corresponding adjustment, net of tax effect, to the related equity account for unrealized gains/losses, a component of Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). An other than temporary decline in value of ten percent would result in a $10.9 million reduction in fair value and a corresponding adjustment to net income, net of tax effect. 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Statements included in this discussion and analysis (or elsewhere in this annual report) which are not statements of historical fact are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, "forward looking statements" for purposes of the safe harbor provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Readers are cautioned that any such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) that the information is of a preliminary nature and may be subject to further and or continuing review and adjustment, (2) changes in the utility regulatory environment, (3) changes in the economy, especially in SCE&Gs service territory, (4) the impact of competition from other energy suppliers, (5) growth opportunities, (6) the results of financing efforts, (7) changes in SCE&Gs accounting policies, (8) weather conditions, especially in areas served by SCE&G, (9) performance of SCANA Corporations pension plan assets and the impact on SCE&Gs results of operations, (10) inflation, (11) changes in environmental regulations and (12) the other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in SCE&Gs periodic reports filed with the SEC. SCE&G disclaims any obligation to update any forward looking statements. COMPETITION Electric Operations In South Carolina, electric restructuring efforts remain stalled, and consideration of electric restructuring legislation is unlikely in 2003. Further, while several companies have announced their intent to site merchant generating plants in SCE&Gs service territory, economic events, environmental concerns and other factors have slowed those efforts. In view of the potential for deregulation, SCE&G has continued efforts to renew franchise agreements with municipalities within its current service area. Effective October 2002, SCE&G secured a 30 year franchise to provide the City of Columbia, South Carolina, with electric and natural gas services. Columbia is one of the largest cities in SCE&Gs service area. Previously, SCE&G reached franchise agreements with the cities of North Charleston (franchise expires in 2021), Charleston (franchise expires in 2026) and numerous other municipalities. In addition, in May 2001 SCE&G signed an electric supply contract with North Carolina Electric Membership Corporation to supply 350 MW in each of 2004 and 2005 and 250 MW annually in 2006 through 2012. These energy sales are recallable for our native load, if necessary. At the federal level, energy legislation passed both houses of Congress in 2002, though significant differences between the House and Senate versions were not reconciled before the legislative session adjourned. Some of the more stringent provisions of this legislation would have required, among other things, that one percent of the electric energy sold by retail electric suppliers, beginning in 2005, escalating to ten percent in 2019, be generated from renewable energy resources. Renewable energy resources, as defined in some versions of the legislation, would have excluded hydroelectric generation. Substantial penalties would have been levied for failure to comply. Electric cooperatives and municipal utilities would have been exempt from these requirements. SCE&G expects similar legislation will be introduced in Congress in 2003. SCE&G cannot predict whether such legislation will be enacted, and if it is, the conditions it would impose on utilities. In June 2002 implementation of GridSouth Transco LLC (GridSouth) was suspended pending the issuance and evaluation of new FERC directives. In July 2002 FERC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NOPR) on Standard Market Design which proposes sweeping changes to the countrys existing regulatory framework governing transmission, open access and energy markets and will attempt, in large measure, to standardize the national energy market. While it is anticipated that significant change to the NOPR may occur and that implementation, presently scheduled for September 2004, may be delayed, any rules standardizing the markets may have a significant impact on SCE&Gs access to or cost of power for its native load customers and on SCE&Gs marketing of power outside its service territory. SCE&G is currently evaluating this NOPR to determine what effect it will have on SCE&Gs operations. Additional directives from FERC are expected in 2003. Gas Distribution SCE&G has secured franchise agreements with several municipalities within its current service areas to provide natural gas services. See previous discussion at Electric Operations. Natural gas competes with electricity, propane and heating oil to serve the heating and, to a lesser extent, the other household energy needs of residential and small commercial customers. This competition is generally based on price and convenience. Large commercial and industrial customers often have the ability to switch from natural gas to an alternate fuel, such as propane or fuel oil. Natural gas competes with these alternate fuels based on price. As a result, any significant disparity between supply and demand, either of natural gas or of alternate fuels, and due either to production or delivery disruptions or other factors, will affect the price and impact SCE&Gs ability to retain large commercial and industrial customers on a monthly basis. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES SCE&Gs cash requirements arise primarily from its operational needs, funding its construction program and payment of dividends to SCANA. The ability of SCE&G to replace existing plant investment, as well as to expand to meet future demand for electricity and gas, will depend upon its ability to attract the necessary financial capital on reasonable terms. SCE&G recovers the costs of providing services through rates charged to customers. Rates for regulated services are generally based on historical costs. As customer growth and inflation occur and SCE&G continues its ongoing construction program, SCE&G expects to seek increases in rates. SCE&Gs future financial position and results of operations will be affected by its ability to obtain adequate and timely rate and other regulatory relief, if requested. In January 2003 the SCPSC issued an order granting SCE&G an increase in retail electric rates of 5.8% which is designed to produce additional annual revenues of approximately $70.7 million based on a test year calculation. The SCPSC authorized a return on common equity of 12.45%. The new rates were effective for service rendered on and after February 1, 2003. As a part of the order, the SCPSC extended through 2005 its approval of the accelerated capital recovery plan for SCE&Gs Cope Generating Station. Under the plan, SCE&G may increase depreciation of its Cope Generating Station in excess of amounts that would be recorded based upon currently approved depreciation rates, not to exceed $36 million annually, without the approval of the SCPSC. Any unused portion of the $36 million in any given year may be carried forward for possible use in the following year. The estimated primary cash requirements for 2003 and the actual primary cash requirements for 2002, excluding requirements for non nuclear fuel purchases, short term borrowings and dividends, and including notes payable to affiliated companies, are as follows: Millions of dollars 2003 2002 Property additions and construction expenditures, net of AFC $619 $575 Nuclear fuel expenditures 30 13 Investments 20 9 Maturing obligations, redemptions and sinking and purchase fund requirements 107 170 Total $776 $767 Approximately 33% of total cash requirements was provided from internal sources in 2002 as compared to 68% in 2001. SCE&Gs contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2002 are summarized as follows: Contractual Cash Obligations Less than After December 31, 2002 Total 1year 1 3 years 4 5 years 5 years (Millions of dollars) Long term and short term debt (including interest) $3,525 $403 $680 $165 $2,277 Preferred stock sinking funds 10 1 2 1 6 Operating leases 68 13 30 18 7 Other commercial commitments 596 413 165 5 13 Included in other commercial commitments are estimated obligations for coal supply purchases. Actual purchases are included in fuel used in electric generation and recovered through electric rates. SCE&G anticipates that its contractual cash obligations will be met through internally generated funds and the incurrence of additional short term and long term indebtedness. SCE&G expects that it has or can obtain adequate sources of financing to meet its projected cash requirements for the foreseeable future. Financing Limits and Related Matters SCE&Gs issuance of various securities, including long term and short term debt, is subject to customary approval or authorization by state and federal regulatory bodies including SCPSC and the SEC. The following paragraphs describe the financing programs currently utilized by SCE&G. SCE&Gs First and Refunding Mortgage Bond Indenture, dated April 1, 1945 (Old Mortgage), contains provisions prohibiting the issuance of additional bonds thereunder (Class A Bonds) unless net earnings (as therein defined) for 12 consecutive months out of the 18 months prior to the month of issuance are at least twice the annual interest requirements on all Class A Bonds to be outstanding (Bond Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2002 the Bond Ratio was 5.51. The Old Mortgage allows the issuance of Class A Bonds up to an additional principal amount equal to (i) 70% of unfunded net property additions (which unfunded net property additions totaled approximately $522 million at December 31, 2002), (ii) retirements of Class A Bonds (which retirement credits totaled $187.2 million at December 31, 2002), and (iii) cash on deposit with the Trustee. SCE&G is also subject to a bond indenture dated April 1, 1993 (New Mortgage) covering substantially all of its electric properties under which its future mortgage backed debt (New Bonds) will be issued. New Bonds are issued under the New Mortgage on the basis of a like principal amount of Class A Bonds issued under the Old Mortgage which have been deposited with the Trustee of the New Mortgage. At December 31, 2002 approximately $1.3 billion Class A Bonds were on deposit with the Trustee of the New Mortgage and are available to support the issuance of additional New Bonds. New Bonds will be issuable under the New Mortgage only if adjusted net earnings (as therein defined) for 12 consecutive months out of the 18 months immediately preceding the month of issuance are at least twice the annual interest requirements on all outstanding bonds (including Class A Bonds) and New Bonds to be outstanding (New Bond Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2002 the New Bond Ratio was 5.36. SCE&Gs Restated Articles of Incorporation (the Articles) prohibit issuance of additional shares of preferred stock without the consent of the preferred shareholders unless net earnings (as defined therein) for the 12 consecutive months immediately preceding the month of issuance are at least one and one half times the aggregate of all interest charges and preferred stock dividend requirements on all shares of preferred stock outstanding immediately after the proposed issue (Preferred Stock Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2002 the Preferred Stock Ratio was 1.72. The Articles also require the consent of at least a majority of the total voting power of SCE&Gs preferred stock before SCE&G may issue or assume any unsecured indebtedness if, after such issue or assumption, the total principal amount of all such unsecured indebtedness would exceed ten percent of the aggregate principal amount of all of SCE&Gs secured indebtedness and capital and surplus (the ten percent test). No such consent is required to enter into agreements for payment of principal, interest and premium for securities issued for pollution control purposes. At December 31, 2002 the ten percent test would have limited issuances of unsecured indebtedness to approximately $366.7 million. Unsecured indebtedness at December 31, 2002 totaled approximately $127.6 million. At December 31, 2002 SCE&G had $250 million of unused committed lines of credit comprised of $175 million, expiring in 2003 and $75 million expiring in 2005. These lines of credit support the issuance of commercial paper. SCE&Gs commercial paper outstanding totaled $127.6 million and $114.7 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, at weighted average interest rates of 1.40% and 1.95%, respectively. On January 8, 2003 a credit agreement was reached allowing SCE&G to share an existing $78 million SCANA uncommitted line of credit. In addition, Fuel Company has a credit agreement for a maximum of $125 million expiring in 2003 with the full amount available at December 31, 2002. The credit agreement supports the issuance of short term commercial paper for the financing of nuclear and fossil fuels and sulfur dioxide emission allowances. Fuel Company commercial paper outstanding totaled $50.1 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, at weighted average interest rates of 1.38% and 2.06%, respectively. This commercial paper and amounts outstanding under the revolving credit agreement, if any, are guaranteed by SCE&G. During the formation of GENCO in 1994, SCE&Gs $36 million Berkeley County Pollution Control Facilities Revenue Bonds (Berkeley Bonds) were transferred to GENCO. SCANA is a guarantor of the Berkeley Bonds. In addition, holders of Berkeley Bonds may have recourse against SCE&G in the event of default by GENCO. Financing Transactions The following financing transactions have occurred since January 1, 2002: o On January 31, 2002 SCE&G issued $300 million of first mortgage bonds having an annual interest rate of 6.625% and maturing February 1, 2032. The proceeds from the sale of these bonds were used to reduce short term debt primarily incurred as a result of SCE&Gs construction program and to redeem on March 11, 2002 its $103.5 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 8 7/8% Series due August 15, 2021. o On October 17, 2002 SCE&G received an equity contribution of $150 million from SCANA, which was used to pay off short term debt primarily incurred as a result of SCE&Gs construction program . o On November 8, 2002 the South Carolina Jobs Economic Development Authority (JEDA) issued, and SCE&G borrowed the proceeds of, an aggregate of $90.4 million principal amount of tax exempt Industrial revenue bonds (the Bonds). The Bonds bear interest at rates ranging from 4.2% to 5.45%, with maturities ranging from 2012 to 2032. Proceeds from the Bonds were used to refund an aggregate amount of $62.3 million principal amount of pollution control revenue Bonds and to pay the costs of solid waste disposal facilities at two of SCE&Gs electric generating plants. o On January 23, 2003 SCE&G issued $200 million First Mortgage Bonds having an annual interest rate of 5.80% and maturing on January 15, 2033. The proceeds from the sale of these bonds were used to reduce short term debt and for general corporate purposes. Other Information SCE&G placed in service a $264 million gas turbine generator project in Aiken County, South Carolina in June 2002. Two combined cycle turbines burn natural gas to produce 341 MW of new electric generation and use exhaust heat to replace coal fired steam that powers two existing 75 MW turbines at the Urquhart Generating Station. In May 2002 SCE&G began construction of an 875 MW generation facility in Jasper County, South Carolina, to supply electricity to its South Carolina customers. The facility will include three natural gas combustion turbine generators and one steam turbine generator. The $450 million facility is expected to begin commercial operation in mid 2004 and SCG Pipeline, Inc., an affiliate, will transport natural gas to the facility. In October 1999 FERC mandated that SCE&G reinforce its Lake Murray dam in order to comply with new federal safety standards and maintain the lake in case of an extreme earthquake. Construction for the project and related activities, which began in the third quarter of 2001, is expected to cost approximately $275 million and be completed in 2005. Costs incurred through December 31, 2002 totaled approximately $67 million. In 2002 SCE&G entered into an agreement with the South Carolina Transportation Infrastructure Bank (the Bank) and the South Carolina Department of Transportation (SCDOT) that allows SCE&G to borrow funds from the Bank to construct a roadbed for SCDOT in connection with the above Lake Murray dam remediation project. The loan agreement provides for interest free borrowings for costs incurred not to exceed $59 million, with such borrowings being repaid over ten years from the initial borrowing. At December 31, 2002 SCE&G had not yet borrowed under the agreement. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Electric Operations The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (CAA) required electric utilities to reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (NOx) substantially by the year 2000. SCE&G remains in compliance with these requirements. In 1998 the EPA required the State of South Carolina, among other states, to modify its state implementation plan (SIP) to address the issue of NOx pollution. The States SIP requires additional emissions reductions in 2004 and beyond. Further, the EPA has indicated that it will propose regulations by December 2003 for stricter limits on mercury and other toxic pollutants generated by coal fired plants. To comply with these state and federal regulations, SCE&G expects to incur capital expenditures of approximately $22 million over the 2003 2007 period to retrofit existing facilities, with increased operation and maintenance costs of approximately $1 million per year. To meet compliance requirements for the years 2008 through 2012, SCE&G anticipates additional capital expenditures of approximately $70 million. The EPA has undertaken an aggressive enforcement initiative against the utilities industry, and the Department of Justice has brought suit against a number of utilities in federal court alleging violations of the CAA. Prior to the suits, those utilities had received requests for information under Section 114 of the CAA and were issued Notices of Violation. The basis for these suits is the assertion by the EPA that maintenance activities undertaken by the utilities over the past 20 or more years constitute "major modifications" which would have required the installation of costly Best Available Control Technology (BACT). The Company and SCE&G have received and responded to Section 114 requests for information related to Canadys, Wateree and Williams Stations. The regulations under the CAA provide certain exemptions to the definition of "major modifications," including an exemption for routine repair, replacement or maintenance. SCE&G has analyzed each of the activities covered by the EPAs requests and believes each of these activities is covered by the exemption for routine repair, replacement and maintenance. The regulations also provide an exemption for an increase in emissions resulting from increased hours of operation or production rate and from demand growth. It is possible that the EPA will commence enforcement actions against SCE&G, and the EPA has the authority to seek penalties at the rate of up to $27,500 per day for each violation. The EPA also could seek installation of BACT (or equivalent) at the three plants. SCE&G believes that any assertions relative to the Companys and SCE&Gs compliance with the CAA would be without merit. However, if successful, such assertions could have a material adverse effect on SCE&Gs financial position, cash flows and results of operations. The Clean Water Act, as amended, provides for the imposition of effluent limitations that require treatment for wastewater discharges. Under this Act, compliance with applicable limitations is achieved under a national permit program. Discharge permits have been issued for all and renewed for nearly all of SCE&Gs generating units. Concurrent with renewal of these permits, the permitting agency has implemented a more rigorous program of monitoring and controlling thermal discharges and strategies for toxicity reduction in wastewater streams. SCE&G is developing compliance plans for these initiatives. Congress is expected to consider further amendments to the Clean Water Act in 2003. Such legislation may include limitations to mixing zones, the implementation of technology based standards for main condenser cooling water including intake and discharge structures and toxicity based standards. These provisions, if passed, could have a material impact on the results of operations and cash flows of SCE&G. Gas Distribution SCE&G maintains an environmental assessment program to identify and evaluate current and former operations sites that could require environmental cleanup. As site assessments are initiated, estimates are made of the amount of expenditures, if any, deemed necessary to investigate and clean up each site. These estimates are refined as additional information becomes available; therefore, actual expenditures could differ significantly from the original estimates. Amounts estimated and accrued to date for site assessments and cleanup relate solely to regulated operations and are recorded in deferred debits and amortized with recovery provided through rates. Deferred amounts, net of amounts previously recovered through rates and insurance settlements, totaled $17.9 million and $24.4 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The deferral includes the estimated costs associated with the following matters: o SCE&G owns a decommissioned MGP site in the Calhoun Park area of Charleston, South Carolina. The site is currently being remediated for benzene contamination in the intermediate aquifer on surrounding properties. SCE&G anticipates that the remaining remediation activities will be completed in 2003, with certain monitoring and retreatment activities continuing until 2007. As of December 31, 2002, SCE&G has spent approximately $18.4 million to remediate the Calhoun Park site. Total remediation costs are estimated to be $21.9 million. o SCE&G owns three other decommissioned MGP sites in South Carolina which contain residues of by product chemicals. Two of these sites are currently being remediated under work plans approved by DHEC. SCE&G is continuing to investigate the remaining site and is monitoring the nature and extent of residual contamination. SCE&G anticipates that major remediation activities for these three sites will be completed before 2006. SCE&G has spent approximately $2.2 million related to these sites, and expects to incur an additional $5.9 million. REGULATORY MATTERS STATE Regulated public utilities are allowed to record as assets some costs that would be expensed by other enterprises. If deregulation or other changes in the regulatory environment occur, SCE&G may no longer be eligible to apply this accounting treatment and may be required to eliminate such regulatory assets from its balance sheet. Although the potential effects of deregulation cannot be determined at present, discontinuation of the accounting treatment could have a material adverse effect on SCE&Gs results of operations in the period the write off would be recorded. It is expected that cash flows and the financial position of SCE&G would not be materially affected by the discontinuation of the accounting treatment. SCE&G reported approximately $262 million and $109 million of regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively, including amounts recorded for deferred income tax assets and liabilities of approximately $123 million and $37 million, respectively, on its balance sheet at December 31, 2002. SCE&Gs generation assets would be exposed to considerable financial risks in a deregulated electric market. If market prices for electric generation do not produce adequate revenue streams and the enabling legislation or regulatory actions do not provide for recovery of the resulting stranded costs, SCE&G could be required to write down its investment in these assets. SCE&G cannot predict whether any write downs will be necessary and, if they are, the extent to which they would adversely affect SCE&Gs results of operations in the period in which they would be recorded. As of December 31, 2002, SCE&Gs net investment in fossil and hydro and nuclear generation assets was approximately $1,731 million and $546 million, respectively. SCE&G is subject to the jurisdiction of the SCPSC as to retail electric and gas rates, service, accounting, issuance of securities (other than short term borrowings) and other matters. Electric In January 2003 the SCPSC issued an order granting SCE&G an increase in retail electric rates of 5.8% which is designed to produce additional annual revenues of approximately $70.7 million based on a test year calculation. The SCPSC authorized a return on common equity of 12.45%. The new rates were effective for service rendered on and after February 1, 2003. As a part of the order, the SCPSC extended through 2005 its approval of the accelerated capital recovery plan for SCE&Gs Cope Generating Station. Under the plan, SCE&G may increase depreciation of its Cope Generating Station in excess of amounts that would be recorded based upon currently approved depreciation rates, not to exceed $36 million annually, without the approval of the SCPSC. Any unused portion of the $36 million in any given year may be carried forward for possible use in the following year. On December 31, 2002 the SCPSC issued an order approving SCE&Gs request to capitalize the cost of fuel consumed in the production of test power for the gas turbines installed at Urquhart Generating Station in 2002. As a result, SCE&G transferred approximately $12.5 million from fuel used in electric generation to electric utility plant. In May 2002 the SCPSC issued an order approving SCE&Gs request to increase the fuel component of rates charged to electric customers from 1.579 cents per KWh to 1.722 cents per KWh. The increase reflects higher fuel costs projected for the period May 2002 through April 2003. The increase also provided continued recovery for under collected actual fuel costs through April 2001, including short term purchased power costs necessitated by outages at two of SCE&Gs base load generating plants in winter 2000 2001. The new rates were effective as of the first billing cycle in May 2002. In January 2003 in conjunction with the approval of the retail rate increase, the SCPSC approved SCE&Gs request to reduce the fuel component to 1.678 cents per KWh. Gas SCE&Gs rates are established using a cost of gas component approved by the SCPSC which may be modified periodically to reflect changes in the price of natural gas purchased by SCE&G. SCE&Gs cost of gas component in effect during the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 was as follows: Rate Per Therm Effective Date Rate Per Therm Effective Date $.596 January October 2002 $.993 January February 2001 $.728 November December 2002 $.793 March October 2001 $.596 November December 2001 In March 2003 the SCPSC issued an order approving SCE&Gs request for an out of period adjustment to increase the cost of gas component of its rates for natural gas service from .728 cents per therm to .928 cents per therm, effective with the first billing cycle in March 2003. In 1994 the SCPSC issued an order approving SCE&Gs request to recover through a billing surcharge to its gas customers the costs of environmental cleanup at the sites of former MGPs. The billing surcharge is subject to annual review and provides for the recovery of substantially all actual and projected site assessment and cleanup costs and environmental claims settlements for SCE&Gs gas operations that had previously been deferred. In October 2002, as a result of the annual review, the SCPSC reaffirmed SCE&Gs billing surcharge of 3.0 cents per therm, which is intended to provide for the recovery, prior to the end of the year 2005, of the balance remaining at December 31, 2002 of $17.9 million. Transit On October 15, 2002 SCE&G transferred its transit system to the City of Columbia, South Carolina (City). As part of the transfer agreement, SCE&G will pay the City $32 million over eight years in exchange for a 30 year electric and gas franchise, has conveyed transit related property and equipment to the City and has conveyed the 10 MW Columbia Canal and Hydroelectric Plant to the City. SCE&G will continue to operate the plant for the City until 2005. SCE&G will also pay the Central Midlands Regional Transit Authority up to $3 million as matching funds for Federal Transit Administration grants for the purchase of new transit coaches and a new transit facility. The cost of the franchise agreement is recorded in other regulatory assets. REGULATORY MATTERS FEDERAL SCE&Gs regulated business operations were impacted by FERC Order No. 2000 and other related initiatives of the FERC. Order No. 2000 required each utility under FERC jurisdiction that operates an electric transmission system to submit plans for the possible formation of a regional transmission organization. In March 2001 FERC gave provisional approval to SCE&G and two other southeastern electric utilities to establish GridSouth as an independent regional transmission company, responsible for operating and planning the utilities combined transmission systems. In June 2002 GridSouth implementation was suspended pending the issuance and evaluation of new FERC directives. In July 2002 FERC issued a NOPR on Standard Market Design which proposes sweeping changes to the countrys existing regulatory framework governing transmission, open access and energy markets and which will attempt, in large measure, to standardize the national energy market. While it is anticipated that significant changes to the NOPR may occur and that implementation, presently scheduled for September 2004, may not occur for some time, any rules standardizing the markets may have significant impact on SCE&Gs access to or cost of power for its native load customers and on SCE&Gs marketing of power outside its service territory. SCE&G is currently evaluating this NOPR to determine what effect it will have on SCE&Gs operations. Additional directives from FERC are expected later in 2003. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Following are descriptions of SCE&Gs accounting policies which are new or most critical in terms of reporting financial condition or results of operations. SFAS 71 SCE&G is subject to the provisions of SFAS 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation," which requires it to record certain assets and liabilities that defer the recognition of expenses and revenues to future periods as a result of being rate regulated. At December 31, 2002 SCE&G had recorded approximately $262 million and $109 million of regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively, including amounts recorded for deferred income tax assets and liabilities. Management believes the regulatory assets are recoverable through rates. The SCPSC has reviewed and approved most of the items shown as regulatory assets through specific orders. Other items represent costs which were not yet approved for recovery. In recording these costs as regulatory assets, management believes the costs will be allowable under existing rate making concepts that are embodied in current rate orders received by SCE&G. However, ultimate recovery is subject to SCPSC approval. In the future, as a result of deregulation or other changes in the regulatory environment, SCE&G may no longer meet the criteria for continued application of SFAS 71 and could be required to write off its regulatory assets and liabilities. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of SCE&Gs Electric Distribution and Gas Distribution segments in the period the write off would be recorded. It is not expected that cash flows or financial position would be materially affected. Certain of SCE&Gs regulatory assets and liabilities arise from its environmental assessment program, which identifies and evaluates current and former operations sites that could require environmental cleanup. As site assessments are initiated, estimates are made of the amount of expenditures, if any, deemed necessary to investigate and clean up each site. These estimates are refined as additional information becomes available; therefore, actual expenditures could differ significantly from the original estimates. Regulatory assets and liabilities related to environmental cleanup affect primarily the Gas Distribution segment and are due to the costs associated with current and former MGP sites. Revenue Recognition / Unbilled Revenues Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or when energy is delivered to customers. Because customers are billed on cycles which vary based on the timing of the actual reading of their electric and gas meters, we record estimates for unbilled revenues at the end of each reporting period. Such unbilled revenue amounts reflect estimates of the amount of energy delivered to each customer since the date of the last reading of their respective meters. Such unbilled revenues reflect consideration of estimated usage by customer class, the effects of different rate schedules, changes in weather and, where applicable, the impact of weather normalization provisions of rate structures. The accrual of unbilled revenues in this manner properly matches revenues and related costs. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, accounts receivable include unbilled revenues of $43.9 million and $39.1 million, respectively. Total revenues for 2002 and 2001 were $1.68 billion and $1.72 billion, respectively. Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFC) AFC, a noncash item, reflects the period cost of capital devoted to plant under construction. This accounting practice results in the inclusion of, as a component of construction cost, the costs of debt and equity capital dedicated to construction investment. AFC is included in rate base investment and is depreciated as a component of plant cost in establishing rates for utility services. SCE&G calculated AFC using composite rates of 7.8%, 8.8% and 8.1% for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. These rates do not exceed the maximum allowable rate as calculated under FERC Order No. 561. Interest on nuclear fuel in process is capitalized at the actual interest amount incurred. AFC primarily affects the Electric Operations segment due to its capital intensive construction program, and to a lesser extent, AFC affects the Gas Distribution segment. AFC represented approximately 9.4% of income before income taxes in 2002, 6.5% in 2001 and 1.7% in 2000. Because the equity component of AFC is not taxable, increased AFC reduces SCE&Gs effective tax rate. See Results of Operations for additional discussion. Provisions for Bad Debts and Allowances for Doubtful Accounts As of each balance sheet date, SCE&G evaluates the collectibility of accounts receivable and records allowances for doubtful accounts based on estimates of the level of actual write offs which might be experienced. These estimates are based on, among other things, comparisons of the relative age of accounts and consideration of actual write off history. SCE&Gs Electric Distribution and Gas Distribution segments have an established write off history and a regulated service area that enables it to reliably estimate its provision for bad debts. Nuclear Decommissioning Accounting for decommissioning costs for nuclear power plants involves significant estimates related to costs to be incurred many years in the future. Among the factors that could change SCE&Gs accounting estimates related to decommissioning costs are changes in technology, changes in regulatory and environmental remediation requirements, as well as changes in financial assumptions such as discount rates and timing of cash flows. See also the discussion of SCE&Gs adoption of SFAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations," below. Changes in any of these estimates could significantly impact SCE&Gs financial position and cash flows (although changes in such estimates should be earnings neutral, because these costs are expected to be collected from ratepayers). SCE&Gs share of estimated site specific nuclear decommissioning costs for Summer Station, including the cost of decommissioning plant components not subject to radioactive contamination, totals approximately $357 million, stated in 1999 dollars, based on a decommissioning study completed in 2000. Santee Cooper is responsible for decommissioning costs related to its one third ownership interest in the station. The cost estimate is based on a decommissioning methodology acceptable to the NRC under which the site would be maintained over a period of approximately 60 years in such a manner as to allow for subsequent decontamination that permits release for unrestricted use. SCE&Gs method of funding decommissioning costs is referred to as COMReP (Cost of Money Reduction Plan). Under this plan, funds collected through rates are used to pay premiums on insurance policies on the lives of certain Company and affiliate personnel. SCE&G is the beneficiary of these policies. Through these insurance contracts, SCE&G is able to take advantage of income tax benefits and accrue earnings on the fund on a tax deferred basis. Amounts for decommissioning collected through electric rates, insurance proceeds, and interest on proceeds, less expenses, are transferred by SCE&G to an external trust fund. Management intends for the fund, including earnings thereon, to provide for all eventual decommissioning expenditures on an after tax basis. Pension Accounting SCE&G follows SFAS 87, "Employers Accounting for Pensions," in accounting for its defined benefit pension plan. SCE&Gs plan is fully funded and as such, net pension income is reflected in the financial statements (see Results of Operations). SFAS 87 requires the use of several assumptions, the selection of which may have a large impact on the resulting benefit recorded. Among the more sensitive assumptions are those surrounding discount rates and returns on assets. Net pension income of $25.5 million recorded in 2002 reflects the use of a 7.5% discount rate and an assumed 9.5% long term return on plan assets. SCE&G believes that these assumptions were, and that the resulting pension income amount was, reasonable. Due to poor performance in the stock market in recent years, SCE&G has determined to adjust its assumed long term return on assets to 9.25% for 2003. Lower interest rates have also led to a reduction in the discount rate as of December 31, 2002 to 6.5%. Had those assumptions been in place in 2002, net pension income would have been reduced by approximately $5.2 million. In determining the appropriate discount rate, SCE&G considers the market indices of high quality long term fixed income securities. As such, SCE&G selected the above discount rate of 6.5% as being within a reasonable range of Moodys "Aa" interest rate as of December 31, 2002. This same discount rate was also selected for determination of OPEB liabilities discussed below. The following information with respect to pension assets should also be noted: SCE&G determines the fair value of substantially all of its pension assets utilizing market quotes rather than utilizing any calculated values, "market related" values or other modeling techniques. In developing the expected long term rate of return assumptions, SCE&G evaluated input from actuaries and from pension fund investment advisors, including such advisors review of the plans historical 10, 16 and 24 year cumulative actual returns of 10.15%, 10.80% and 12.32%, respectively, which have all been in excess of related broad indices. SCE&G anticipates that the investment managers will continue to generate long term returns of at least 9.25%. The expected long term rate of return of 9.25% is based on an asset allocation of 80% with equity managers and 20% with fixed income managers. While management believes that the asset allocation will return to those levels, because of market fluctuations, the actual asset allocation as of December 31, 2002 was 70% with equity managers and 30% with fixed income managers. Management regularly reviews such allocations and periodically rebalances the portfolio to the targeted allocation when considered appropriate. While the recent investment performance and the decline in discount rate have significantly reduced the level of pension income, the pension trust has been and remains adequately funded, and no contributions have been required since 1997. As such, recent declines in pension income have had no impact on SCE&Gs cash flows. Based on stress testing performed by SCE&Gs actuaries, management does not anticipate the need to make pension contributions until at least 2008. Accounting for Postretirement Benefits other than Pensions Similar to its pension accounting, SCE&G follows SFAS 106, "Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," in accounting for its postretirement medical and life insurance benefits. This plan is unfunded, so no assumptions related to return on assets impact the net expense recorded; however, the selection of discount rates can significantly impact the actuarial determination of net expense. SCE&G used a discount rate of 7.5% and recorded a net SFAS 106 cost of $13.6 million for 2002. Had the selected discount rate been 6.5%, the expense would have been approximately $0.9 million higher. SFAS 143 SFAS 143 provides guidance for recording and disclosing liabilities related to the future obligations to retire assets (ARO). SFAS 143 applies to the legal obligation associated with the retirement of long lived tangible assets that result from acquisition, construction, development and normal operations. SCE&G adopted SFAS 143 effective January 1, 2003. Because such obligation relates solely to SCE&Gs regulated electric operations, adoption of SFAS 143 will have no impact on results of operations; however, SCE&G will record an ARO of approximately $110 million, which exceeds the previously recorded reserve for nuclear plant decommissioning of approximately $87 million. In addition to the ARO for Summer Station, SCE&G believes that there is legal uncertainty as to the existence of environmental obligations associated with certain transmission and distribution properties. SCE&G believes that any ARO related to this type of property would be insignificant and, due to the indeterminate life of the related assets, an ARO could not be reasonably estimated. SCE&G records cost of removal as a component of accumulated depreciation for property that does not have an associated legal retirement obligation. As of December 31, 2002, SCE&G estimates that approximately $225 million of its accumulated depreciation balance is related to this regulatory liability. OTHER MATTERS Synthetic Fuel Investments SCE&G holds two equity method investments in partnerships involved in converting coal to non conventional fuel, the use of which fuel qualifies for federal income tax credits. The aggregate investment in these partnerships as of December 31, 2002 is approximately $2 million, and through December 31, 2002, they had generated and passed through to SCE&G approximately $58 million in such tax credits. Under a plan approved by the SCPSC, any tax credits generated and ultimately passed through to SCE&G from synfuel produced and consumed by SCE&G have been and will be deferred and will be applied to offset the capital costs of projects required to comply with legislative or regulatory actions. See Note 1B of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement. Nuclear License Extension In August 2002 SCE&G filed an application with the NRC for a 20 year license extension for its Summer Station. If approved, the extension would allow the plant to operate through 2042. SCE&G estimates that it will incur approximately $12 million in costs related to the application process. Claims and Litigation SCE&G is engaged in various claims and litigation incidental to its business operations which management anticipates will be resolved without material loss to SCE&G. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Net Income Net income and the percent change from the previous year for the years 2002, 2001 and 2000 were as follows: Millions of dollars 2002 2001 2000 Net income derived from: Continuing operations $219.6 $221.9 $231.3 Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of taxes 22.3 Net income $219.6 $221.9 $253.6 Percent increase (decrease) in net income 34.04% (1.04%) (12.50%) o 2002 vs 2001 Net income decreased primarily due to higher operations and maintenance expenses of $30.4 million (including $10.1 million due to lower pension income), higher property taxes of $6.5 million, and higher interest expense of $4.7 million, which were partially offset by higher electric margins of $37.3 million. o 2001 vs 2000 Net income decreased primarily as a result of milder weather. Pension Income For the last several years, the market value of SCE&Gs retirement plan (pension) assets has exceeded the total actuarial present value of accumulated plan benefits. However, pension income for 2002 decreased significantly compared to 2001 and 2000, primarily as a result of a less favorable investment market. Pension income during these periods, excluding amounts attributable to Santee Cooper and affiliates (see Note 4) was recorded on SCE&Gs financial statements as follows: Millions of dollars 2002 2001 2000 Income Statement Impact: Reduction in employee benefit costs $10.5 $20.7 $20.9 Increase in other income 11.2 12.7 12.9 Balance Sheet Impact: Reduction in capital expenditures 3.1 5.9 5.7 Increase in amount due to Santee Cooper .7 1.8 2.0 Total Pension Income $25.5 $41.1 $41.5 See also the discussion of pension accounting in Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards. Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFC) SCE&Gs financial statements include the effects of the recording of an AFC. AFC is a utility accounting practice whereby a portion of the cost of both equity and borrowed funds used to finance construction (which is shown on the balance sheet as construction work in progress) is capitalized. An equity portion of AFC is included in nonoperating income and a debt portion of AFC is included in interest charges (credits) as noncash items, both of which have the effect of increasing reported net income. AFC represented approximately 9.4% of income before income taxes in 2002, 6.5% in 2001 and 1.7% in 2000. Dividends Declared SCE&Gs Board of Directors declared the following dividends on common stock (all of which is held by SCANA) during 2002: Declaration Date Dividend Amount Quarter Ended Payment Date February 21, 2002 $34.0 million March 31, 2002 April 1, 2002 May 2, 2002 $38.0 million June 30, 2002 July 1, 2002 August 1, 2002 $40.5 million September 30, 2002 October 1, 2002 October 31, 2002 $40.5 million December 31, 2002 January 1, 2003 Electric Operations Electric Operations is comprised of the electric portion of SCE&G and Fuel Company. Electric operations sales margins for 2002, 2001 and 2000, excluding the cumulative effect of accounting change in 2000, were as follows: Millions of dollars 2002 2001 2000 Operating revenues $1,384.8 $1,374.0 $1,343.8 Less: Fuel used in generation (257.5) (223.9) (231.6) Purchased power (151.6) (233.9) (182.7) Margin $975.7 $916.2 $929.5 o 2002 vs 2001 Margins increased $31.9 million due to more favorable weather and $30.5 million due to customer growth. Fuel used in generation increased and purchased power decreased due to completion of the Urquhart Station repowering project in June 2002 and fewer plant outages during 2002. o 2001 vs 2000 Sales margin decreased $32.1 million due to milder weather and $12.6 million due to the impact of the slowing economy. These decreases were partially offset by $25.6 million from customer growth. Increases (decreases) from the prior year in MWh sales volume by classes were as follows: Classification (in thousands) 2002 % Change 2001 % Change Residential 735.6 11.3% (170.5) (2.5%) Commercial 370.3 5.9% (17.1) Industrial 158.0 2.5% (317.7) (4.8%) Sales for resale (excluding interchange) 333.7 29.9% (108.3) (8.8%) Other 1.1 0.2% (18.9) (3.4%) Total territorial 1,598.7 7.7% (632.5) (3.0%) NMST (1,441.7) (67.1%) 208.0 10.0% Total 157.0 0.7% (424.5) (2.0%) o 2002 vs 2001 Territorial sales volume increased primarily due to more favorable weather. The decrease in NMST volumes reflects SCE&Gs recording of buy resale transactions in Other Income in 2002. o 2001 vs 2000 Territorial sales volume decreased primarily due to milder weather. Gas Distribution Gas Distribution is comprised of the local distribution operations of SCE&G. Gas distribution sales margins for 2002, 2001 and 2000 were as follows: Millions of dollars 2002 2001 2000 Operating revenues $298.2 $341.0 $325.1 Less: Gas purchased for resale (211.1) (251.6) (233.8) Margin $87.1 $89.4 $91.3 Sales margin decreased slightly over the three year period primarily as a result of the slowing economy and increased competition with alternate fuels. Increases (decreases) from the prior year in DT sales volume by classes, including transportation gas were as follows: Classification (in thousands) 2002 % Change 2001 % Change Residential 985.9 8.8% (3,249.4) (22.4%) Commercial 412.7 3.7% (1,511.4) (11.8%) Industrial 1,637.3 11.4% (2,828.1) (16.5%) Transportation gas (87.6) (3.6%) 375.4 18.0% Total 2,948.3 7.5% (7,213.5) (15.5%) o 2002 vs 2001 Residential and commercial sales volume increased primarily due to more favorable weather. Industrial volumes increased in 2002 after the volatility of the natural gas market in 2001 had resulted in interruptible customers using their alternate fuel sources during that year. o 2001 vs 2000 Residential sales volumes decreased due to higher gas prices. Industrial and transportation gas decreased due to the volatility of the natural gas market resulted in interruptible customers using alternate fuel sources. Other Operating Expenses Increases in other operating expenses were as follows: Millions of dollars 2002 % Change 2001 % Change Other operation and maintenance $50.9 16.1% $7.0 2.3% Depreciation and amortization 7.1 4.4% 5.1 3.2% Other taxes 10.0 10.1% 1.5 1.5% Total $68.0 11.8% $13.6 2.4% o 2002 vs 2001 Other operation and maintenance expenses increased primarily due to lower pension income of $10.1 million, increased labor and benefits of $19.4 million, increased nuclear refueling maintenance of $4.0 million, increased cost at Cogen South of $3.1 million, higher property insurance of $2.6 million, increased amortization of environmental costs of $3.0 million and increased storm damage expenses of $1.8 million. Depreciation and amortization increased primarily due to completion of the Urquhart Station repowering project in June 2002 of $4.8 million and normal net property additions of $2.2 million. Other taxes increased primarily due to increased property taxes. o 2001 vs 2000 Other operation and maintenance expenses increased primarily as a result of increases in employee benefit costs. Depreciation and amortization increased primarily as a result of normal increases in utility plant. Other taxes increased primarily due to increased property taxes. Interest Expense Increases (decreases) in interest expense, excluding the debt component of AFC, were as follows: Millions of dollars 2002 % Change 2001 % Change Interest on long term debt, net $9.1 8.1% $12.0 11.9% Other interest expense 1.3 22.8% (2.4) (29.6%) Total $10.4 8.8% $9.6 8.8% Interest expense in 2002 increased by $11.9 million as a result of increased borrowings, and was partially offset by $2.8 million as a result of declining interest rates. Interest expense in 2001 increased as a result of increased borrowings. Income Taxes Income taxes decreased approximately $10.1 million for the year 2002 compared to 2001 and decreased approximately $9.8 million for the year ended 2001 compared to 2000. Changes in income taxes are primarily due to changes in operating income. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK All financial instruments held by SCE&G described below are held for purposes other than trading. Interest rate risk The tables below provide information about long term debt issued by SCE&G which is sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations the tables present principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. Fair values for debt represent quoted market prices. December 31, 2002 Expected Maturity Date Millions of dollars Liabilities 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Total Fair Value Long Term Debt: Fixed Rate ($) 144.0 138.4 188.4 169.1 38.2 1,180.6 1,858.7 1,882.1 Average Interest Rate (%) 6.37 7.44 7.35 8.49 6.74 6.81 7.03 December 31, 2001 Expected Maturity Date Millions of dollars Liabilities 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter Total Fair Value Long Term Debt: Fixed Rate ($) 129.7 123.9 173.9 154.7 1,561.0 1,542.9 27.6 951.2 Average Interest Rate (%) 7.52 7.40 8.66 7.33 7.33 6.73 6.37 While a decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of debt, it is unlikely that events which would result in a realized loss will occur. 
 
