FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20021126171522.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
On November 26, 2002, the Company issued a press release indicating that it anticipates a continuation of its strong growth and operating performance in 2003. The full text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99 to this 8-K.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
The Company and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements in presentations (including the presentation referenced above), press releases, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
Table of Contents
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of these risks, uncertainties and other matters can be found in UnitedHealth Group's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, in making these statements, we are not undertaking to address or update each statement in future filings or communications regarding our business or results, and are not undertaking to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 26, 2002
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99
(For Immediate Release)
MINNEAPOLIS (November 26, 2002)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) anticipates a continuation of its strong growth and operating performance in 2003, expecting that its operating margins will increase in the aggregate, with every business segment showing stable or expanded margins next year.
At its annual Investor Conference last week, management provided the following key data points for 2003:
The Company continues to aggressively repurchase shares pursuant to its February 2002 share repurchase program, under which there remains authority to acquire 19 million additional shares. Total 2002 share repurchases will exceed $1.6 billion and 2003 share repurchase is expected to exceed the 2002 level.
UnitedHealth Group also presented data showing that its businesses currently anticipate adding at least 1.3 million new consumers to their health benefit offerings in 2003. Details include the following items:
"We look forward to reporting record revenues, earnings and cash flows for the full year of 2002 and again next year. Our businesses remain well positioned and we continue to drive strong value propositions that match up with unmet customer needs in the broad health care market," stated Dr. William W. McGuire, UnitedHealth Group's chairman and chief executive officer. "These activities will also provide a basis for excellent further growth and performance in 2004."
Business Description
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company that provides a broad spectrum of resources and services to help people improve their health and well-being through all stages of life.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements that UnitedHealth Group may publish, including those in this announcement, that are not strictly historical are "forward-looking" statements under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, which may cause actual results and corporate developments to differ materially from those expected. Factors that could cause results and developments to differ materially from expectations include, without limitation, the effects of state and federal regulations, the effects of acquisitions and divestitures, and other risks described from time to time in each of UnitedHealth Group's SEC reports including quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, annual reports on Form 10-K, and reports on Form 8-K.


