FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20030508165752.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 5, "Other Events."
On May 8, 2003, the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") declared a two-for-one stock split of the Company's common stock in the form of a 100 percent common stock dividend payable on June 18, 2003 to shareholders of record on June 2, 2003.
The Company's press release dated May 8, 2003 is included as Exhibit 99 hereto.
The Company will also increase its annual cash dividend rate on a post-split basis. UnitedHealth Group plans to sustain its 3 cent per share annual dividend after the split, effectively doubling the dividend payout from its current level.
The Board further clarified that the Company's remaining share repurchase authorization will double commensurate with the stock split. As of the close of business on May 7, 2003, the Company had approximately 8.2 million shares remaining under its current repurchase authorization.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
The Company and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements in presentations, press releases, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of these risks, uncertainties and other matters can be found in UnitedHealth Group's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, in making these statements, we are not undertaking to address or update each statement in future filings or communications regarding our business or results, and are not undertaking to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
N E W S R E L E A S E
(For Immediate Release)
(May 8, 2003)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) announced today that its Board of Directors has declared a two-for-one split of the company's common stock in the form of a 100 percent common stock dividend. The stock dividend is payable on June 18, 2003, to shareholders of record on June 2, 2003.
MINNEAPOLIS
The Company will also increase its annual cash dividend rate on a post-split basis. UnitedHealth Group plans to sustain its 3 cent per share annual dividend after the split, effectively doubling the dividend payout from its current level. The Board also clarified that UnitedHealth Group's remaining share repurchase authorization will double commensurate with the stock split. As of the close of business on May 7, 2003, the Company had approximately 8.2 million shares remaining under its current repurchase authorization.
Under the Company's program, purchases may be made from time to time at prevailing prices in the open market, by block purchase or in private transactions and may be discontinued at any time. The repurchases are subject to restrictions relating to volume, price and timing. The repurchased shares are available for reissue pursuant to employee stock option and purchase plans and for other corporate purposes. The company funds such repurchases with internally generated funds and existing financing capacity.
UnitedHealth Group (www.unitedhealthgroup.com) is a diversified health and well-being enterprise that provides a full spectrum of resources and services to help people achieve improved health and well-being through all stages of life. UnitedHealth Group is organized into six businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Uniprise, AmeriChoice, Ovations, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix.


