FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20031119123436.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
On Thursday, November 20, 2003, beginning at 1:30 p.m. EST, the Company will host institutional analysts and investors for a half-day meeting in New York City. In conjunction with the meeting, the Company will affirm its previous guidance of 2003 earnings of $2.91 per share. Management will also increase its 2004 earnings per share growth expectations to a range of 23 to 24 percent over its 2003 results, or a range of $3.58 to $3.61 per share, on a revenue base exceeding $33 billion, including the recently closed Golden Rule Financial Corporation acquisition. For discussion purposes, management will present pro forma information on the recently announced Mid Atlantic Medical Services, Inc. (MAMSI) acquisition as if it closed on January 1, 2004. Under that scenario, aggregate full year revenues would exceed $36 billion with Company earnings per share further increasing at the rate of about one cent per share per quarter in 2004. Although the Company is targeting completion of the MAMSI acquisition during the first quarter of 2004, the exact date of closure cannot be accurately projected at this time.
An audio webcast of the meeting may be accessed live on the Internet on the Company's investor information page at www.unitedhealthgroup.com.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
The Company and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements in presentations (including the presentation referenced above), press releases, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
Table of Contents
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of these risks, uncertainties and other matters can be found in UnitedHealth Group's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, in making these statements, we are not undertaking to address or update each statement in future filings or communications regarding our business or results, and are not undertaking to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 19, 2003
Table of Contents

 
NEWS RELEASE
(For Immediate Release)
MINNEAPOLIS (November 19, 2003)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) expects its future financial performance will be driven by strong growth and by operating margin expansion across its business units.
Management will discuss these trends and their underlying drivers in a half-day meeting with institutional analysts and investors in New York City on November 20, 2003, beginning at 1:30 p.m. EST (12:30 p.m. CST). The Company will also sponsor an audio webcast of the meeting and provide selected financial slides on its investor information page at www.unitedhealthgroup.com.
In conjunction with the meeting, the Company will affirm its previous guidance of 2003 earnings of $2.91 per share, up 37 percent from $2.13 per share earned in 2002. Management will also increase its 2004 earnings per share growth expectations to a range of 23 to 24 percent over its 2003 results, or a range of $3.58 to $3.61 per share, on a revenue base exceeding $33 billion, including the recently closed Golden Rule Financial Corporation (Golden Rule) acquisition. On November 13, 2003, the Company completed its purchase of Golden Rule, which will add approximately $1 billion in revenue on an annual basis, for $500 million in cash.
For discussion purposes, management will present pro forma information on the recently announced Mid Atlantic Medical Medical Services, Inc. (MAMSI) acquisition as if it closed on January 1, 2004. Under that scenario, aggregate full year revenues would exceed $36 billion with UnitedHealth Group earnings per share further increasing at the rate of about one cent per share per quarter in 2004. Although the Company is targeting completion of the MAMSI acquisition during the first quarter of 2004, the exact date of closure cannot be accurately projected at this time.
 
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company that provides a broad spectrum of resources and services to help people improve their health and well-being through all stages of life.
Business Description
Statements that UnitedHealth Group may publish, including those in this announcement, that are not strictly historical are "forward-looking" statements under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, which may cause actual results and corporate developments to differ materially from those expected. Factors that could cause results and developments to differ materially from expectations include, without limitation, the effects of state and federal regulations, the effects of acquisitions and divestitures, and other risks described from time to time in each of UnitedHealth Group's SEC reports including quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, annual reports on Form 10-K, and reports on Form 8-K.
Forward-Looking Statements


