FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20030416153142.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure" and Item 12, "Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On April 16, 2003, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release discussing first quarter 2003 results. The press release is included as Exhibit 99 hereto. The press release contains forward-looking statements regarding the Company.
To supplement our consolidated financial results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the press release also discloses the following non-GAAP information which management believes provides useful information to investors:
Certain account balances and financial measures have been presented in this earnings release excluding our AARP business. Management believes these disclosures are meaningful since underwriting gains or losses related to the AARP business are recorded as an increase or decrease to a rate stabilization fund (RSF) and the effects of changes in balance sheet amounts associated with the AARP program accrue to AARP policyholders through the RSF balance. Although the Company is at risk for underwriting losses to the extent cumulative net losses exceed the balance in the RSF, the Company has not been required to fund any underwriting deficits to date and management believes the RSF balance is sufficient to cover potential future underwriting or other risks associated with the contract.
Adjusted operating cash flows is presented in the earnings release to facilitate the comparison of cash flows from operating activities for quarterly periods in which the Company received more or fewer than three monthly premium payments from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). CMS is contractually obligated to pay their monthly premium on the first calendar day of the applicable month. If the first calendar day of the month falls on a weekend or a holiday, CMS pays the Company on the last business day of the preceding calendar month. As such, GAAP operating cash flows may vary depending upon the number of payments received by the Company from CMS during a particular quarter. Adjusted operating cash flows presents operating cash flows assuming that each monthly CMS premium payment was received on the first calendar day of the month.
Table of Contents
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
The Company and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements in presentations, press releases, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of these risks, uncertainties and other matters can be found in UnitedHealth Group's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, in making these statements, we are not undertaking to address or update each statement in future filings or communications regarding our business or results, and are not undertaking to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 16, 2003
Table of Contents

N E W S R E L E A S E [UNITEDHEALTH GROUP LOGO] Contacts: John S. Penshorn Director of Capital Markets Communications & Strategy 952-936-7214 Patrick J. Erlandson Chief Financial Officer 952-936-5901 (For Immediate Release) UNITEDHEALTH GROUP REPORTS RECORD FIRST QUARTER NET EARNINGS OF $1.29 PER SHARE o REVENUES FOR FIRST QUARTER EXCEEDED $6.9 BILLION, UP 16% o OPERATING MARGIN INCREASED TO 9.4% o REPORTED OPERATING CASH FLOWS OF $725 MILLION; ADJUSTED CASH FLOWS OF $870 MILLION o RETURN ON EQUITY EXCEEDED 36% MINNEAPOLIS (April 16, 2003) - UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) achieved record results in the first quarter of 2003, reported Chairman and CEO William W. McGuire, M.D. today. First quarter results were driven by strong performance across the family of UnitedHealth Group operating businesses.
[UNITEDHEALTH GROUP LOGO] - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- QUARTERLY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE THREE MONTHS ENDED ------------------ MARCH 31, DECEMBER 31, MARCH 31, 2003 2002 2002 ---- ---- ---- Revenues $6.98 billion $6.68 billion $6.01 billion Earnings From Operations $653 million $609 million $482 million Operating Margin 9.4% 9.1% 8.0% - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Effective January 1, 2003 the Company transferred Medicaid-related business oversight from UnitedHealthcare to AmeriChoice, as well as certain Medicare-related businesses from UnitedHealthcare to Ovations and managed health plan services from UnitedHealthcare to Uniprise. The 2002 segment financial information has been restated for comparability purposes to conform to the current composition of business segments. The restatement had no effect on previously reported 2002 consolidated financial information. Comparative revenues and earnings from operations for each business segment for all quarters of 2002 on both a reported and restated basis are included in the attached schedules. All amounts and computations in this earnings report are presented using 2002 restated segment financial information. UNITEDHEALTH GROUP HIGHLIGHTS o First quarter earnings per share of $1.29 increased 40 percent from $0.92 in the first quarter of 2002, and improved 9 cents or 8 percent from the fourth quarter of 2002. o First quarter consolidated net earnings increased to $403 million, up $108 million or 37 percent year-over-year. o Consolidated revenues increased $962 million or 16 percent year-over-year to approach $7.0 billion, reflecting balanced growth across the Company's business segments. o Operating costs were 17.2 percent of revenue in the first quarter, an improvement of 30 basis points from the fourth quarter of 2002 and 10 basis points from the first quarter of 2002. o Earnings from operations increased to $653 million in the first quarter, up $171 million or 35 percent over the prior year, and up $44 million or 7 percent sequentially. o Consolidated first quarter operating margin improved to 9.4 percent from 8.0 percent in the first quarter of 2002.
UNITEDHEALTH GROUP HIGHLIGHTS - CONTINUED o Excluding the AARP division of Ovations, o March 31, 2003 receivables decreased $30 million or 6 percent sequentially to $511 million, and declined $29 million year-over-year, even as related quarterly revenues increased $904 million year-over-year or 18 percent during this time frame. o Medical cost days payable, at 66 days, were in line with results over the past four years. Medical payables increased $238 million or 8 percent in the first quarter and $452 million or 17 percent year-over-year, standing at $3.1 billion at March 31, 2003. o Reported cash flows from operations were $725 million for the first quarter. Adjusted for the $145 million premium payment due in the first quarter of 2003 that was received from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services on December 31, 2002, operating cash flows were $870 million, up 59 percent year-over-year on a comparable basis. o The company purchased in excess of 5 million shares of UnitedHealth Group stock during the first quarter of 2003 at a weighted-average price below $84 per share. o First quarter 2003 annualized return on equity reached 36.3 percent. CLOSING COMMENT "Efforts to provide strong value propositions and performance on behalf of our customers, coupled with our service advances and modern technology, have enabled us to accelerate our revenue growth rate year-over-year while further expanding our operating margin," Dr. McGuire concluded. "Based on our early 2003 performance, we now expect full year earnings per share growth of around 27 percent in 2003."
BUSINESS DESCRIPTION UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company that provides a broad spectrum of resources and services to help people improve their health and well-being through all stages of life. Consolidated UnitedHealth Group operating results include the operating performance of the company's four reportable business segments - Health Care Services (which includes the results of UnitedHealthcare, AmeriChoice and Ovations), Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This news release may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our present expectations or projections. A list and description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements EARNINGS CONFERENCE CALL As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the company's first quarter results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 8:45 a.m. EDT today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the company's Web site (http://www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The conference call webcast is open to all interested parties.
[UNITEDHEALTHCARE LOGO] [OVATIONS LOGO] [AMERICHOICE LOGO] BUSINESS DESCRIPTION - HEALTH CARE SERVICES The Health Care Services segment consists of the UnitedHealthcare, AmeriChoice and Ovations business units. UnitedHealthcare coordinates network-based health and well-being services on behalf of local employers and consumers. AmeriChoice facilitates and manages health care services for state Medicaid programs and their beneficiaries. Ovations delivers health and well-being services to Americans over the age of 50, including the administration of supplemental health insurance coverage on behalf of AARP. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- QUARTERLY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE THREE MONTHS ENDED ------------------ MARCH 31, DECEMBER 31, MARCH 31, 2003 2002 2002 ---- ---- ---- Revenues $6.01 billion $5.76 billion $5.18 billion Earnings From Operations $402 million $382 million $276 million Operating Margin 6.7% 6.6% 5.3% - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- KEY DEVELOPMENTS FOR HEALTH CARE SERVICES o Revenues for Health Care Services grew $831 million or 16 percent year-over-year in the first quarter of 2003. o First quarter Health Care Services operating earnings of $402 million increased $126 million or 46 percent year-over-year and $20 million or 5 percent sequentially. o First quarter operating margin of 6.7 percent expanded 140 basis points year-over-year and 10 basis points sequentially.
KEY DEVELOPMENTS FOR HEALTH CARE SERVICES - CONTINUED UNITEDHEALTHCARE o First quarter revenues of $3.8 billion for UnitedHealthcare increased 15 percent year-over-year. o Fee-based services grew by more than 90,000 individuals in the quarter, bringing year-over-year net growth to 260,000, up 10 percent. Risk-based commercial enrollment grew by more than 100,000 individuals in the first quarter. These gains were largely offset by the elimination of 150,000 people due to the final phase of a targeted reduction in the multi-option, multi-carrier segment of the commercial marketplace and by the loss of more than 35,000 people from employment attrition at existing customers due to weak business conditions in the U.S. economy. o UnitedHealthcare's commercial medical care ratio of 81.5 percent was stable with the fourth quarter of 2002, as strong, consistent pricing was appropriately matched to underlying costs. AMERICHOICE o The AmeriChoice business generated strong operational performance in the first quarter of 2003. Operating margins were stable year-over-year, as price increases averaging 3 percent were matched with modest medical cost trends, largely moderated by the effective application of the AmeriChoice Personal Care model in the 10 states in which AmeriChoice currently does business. o AmeriChoice Medicaid enrollment grew by 15,000 in the first quarter of 2003, reaching 1.045 million people. OVATIONS o Ovations reported record revenues of $1.6 billion in the first quarter, up $47 million or 3 percent year-over-year and $58 million or 4 percent from fourth quarter 2002. o The actively marketed standardized Medicare supplement program, managed by Ovations on behalf of AARP, realized a net 70,000 increase in subscribers in the first quarter of 2003. The active program subscriber growth rate has continued to accelerate and reached 13 percent on a year-over-year basis.
[UNIPRISE LOGO] BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Uniprise provides network-based health and well-being services, business-to-business transaction processing services, consumer connectivity, and technology support services to large employers and health plans. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- QUARTERLY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE THREE MONTHS ENDED ------------------ MARCH 31, DECEMBER 31, MARCH 31, 2003 2002 2002 ---- ---- ---- Revenues $769 million $702 million $660 million Earnings From Operations $152 million $130 million $128 million Operating Margin 19.8% 18.5% 19.4% - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- KEY DEVELOPMENTS o First quarter revenues of $769 million increased 17 percent over first quarter 2002 and 10 percent sequentially, principally due to new business growth. o Uniprise directly serves 9.3 million people in the national multi-location employer segment, having added more than 700,000 individuals as part of the January enrollment cycle, offset by the attrition of more than 40,000 individuals from existing customers as a direct result of continued weakness in the U.S. employment market. o Operating margin expanded 40 basis points year-over-year and 130 basis points sequentially, reaching 19.8 percent in the first quarter of 2003. Advances in customer service and operational productivity coupled with strong growth contributed to the overall operating margin expansion. o The combination of top-line growth and margin expansion drove first quarter operating income to $152 million, an increase of $24 million or 19 percent year-over-year, and up $22 million or 17 percent from the fourth quarter of 2002.
[SPECIALIZED CARE SERVICES LOGO] BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Specialized Care Services offers a comprehensive array of specialized benefits, networks, services and resources to help consumers improve their health and well-being. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- QUARTERLY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE THREE MONTHS ENDED ------------------ MARCH 31, DECEMBER 31, MARCH 31, 2003 2002 2002 ---- ---- ---- Revenues $454 million $386 million $367 million Earnings From Operations $88 million $79 million $66 million Operating Margin 19.4% 20.5% 18.0% - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- KEY DEVELOPMENTS o First quarter revenues rose to $454 million, up $87 million or 24 percent year-over-year, and up $68 million or 18 percent from the fourth quarter of 2002, with strong growth across the nine component companies of this segment. o Specialized Care Services expanded its services to approximately 2 million unique new consumers in the first quarter of 2003 as compared to year-end 2002. The segment realized strong sequential growth in many of its businesses, including ACN Group, Dental Benefit Providers, Spectera and United Behavioral Health. o The operating margin of 19.4 percent expanded 140 basis points from the comparable quarter in the prior year. Year-over-year margin expansion reflected the segment's significant progress in aligning assets, technology and operating platforms to improve performance. o In the first quarter, operating earnings of $88 million increased $22 million or 33 percent year-over-year and $9 million or 11 percent sequentially.
[INGENIX LOGO] BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Ingenix is an international leader in the field of health care data, analysis and application. The company serves multiple health care market segments on a business-to-business basis, including pharmaceutical companies, health insurers and other payers, care providers, large employers and governments. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- QUARTERLY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE THREE MONTHS ENDED ------------------ MARCH 31, DECEMBER 31, MARCH 31, 2003 2002 2002 ---- ---- ---- Revenues $121 million $155 million $109 million Earnings From Operations $11 million $18 million $12 million Operating Margin 9.1% 11.6% 11.0% - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- KEY DEVELOPMENTS o Ingenix revenues increased 11 percent year-over-year or $12 million to $121 million in the first quarter of 2003. o First quarter revenues decreased $34 million from the fourth quarter of 2002 as a reflection of seasonal demand for publication products and software offerings, which peaks annually in the fourth quarter. o Strong first quarter operating margin within Ingenix Health Intelligence was offset by relatively weaker performance within the Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services unit, which has been challenged by suboptimal industry conditions. The level of pharmaceutical services business activity strengthened in the first quarter with bookings exceeding $50 million year-to-date, which significantly restores revenue backlog for the balance of 2003. ###
UNITEDHEALTH GROUP EARNINGS RELEASE SCHEDULES AND SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION QUARTER ENDED MARCH 31, 2003 - Consolidated Statements of Operations - Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets - Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows - Segment Financial Information - 2002 Segment Financial Information - Revenues Restated for Business Unit Transfers - 2002 Segment Financial Information - Earnings from Operations Restated for Business Unit Transfers - Franchise Profile - Health Care Services and Uniprise - Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
UNITEDHEALTH GROUP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions, except per share data) (unaudited)
UNITEDHEALTH GROUP CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions) (unaudited)
UNITEDHEALTH GROUP CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in millions) (unaudited)
UNITEDHEALTH GROUP SEGMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION (in millions) (unaudited) REVENUES EARNINGS FROM OPERATIONS (a) Effective January 1, 2003, the Company transferred Medicaid-related business oversight from UnitedHealthcare to AmeriChoice, as well as certain Medicare-related businesses from UnitedHealthcare to Ovations and managed health plan services from UnitedHealthcare to Uniprise. The 2002 segment financial information has been restated for comparability purposes to conform to the current composition of business segments. The restatement had no effect on previously reported 2002 consolidated financial information.
UNITEDHEALTH GROUP 2002 SEGMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION - REVENUES RESTATED FOR BUSINESS UNIT TRANSFERS (in millions) (unaudited) REPORTED (a) Effective January 1, 2003, the Company transferred Medicaid-related business oversight from UnitedHealthcare to AmeriChoice, as well as certain Medicare-related businesses from UnitedHealthcare to Ovations and managed health plan services from UnitedHealthcare to Uniprise. The 2002 segment financial information has been restated for comparability purposes to conform to the current composition of business segments. The restatement had no effect on previously reported 2002 consolidated financial information. (b) The transfer of managed health plan services to Uniprise resulted in a net increase to Uniprise's 2002 restated revenues of $12 million. This net increase is comprised of a $92 million increase in external customer revenues partially offset by an $80 million decrease in internal revenues related to customer service and transaction processing services that were previously charged to UnitedHealthcare by Uniprise. The transfer of managed health plan services to Uniprise more appropriately aligns these service offerings internally resulting in a decrease of $80 million in both internal revenues and intercompany eliminations which are no longer necessary.
UNITEDHEALTH GROUP 2002 SEGMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION - EARNINGS FROM OPERATIONS RESTATED FOR BUSINESS UNIT TRANSFERS (in millions) (unaudited) REPORTED RESTATED (a) (a) Effective January 1, 2003, the Company transferred Medicaid-related business oversight from UnitedHealthcare to AmeriChoice, as well as certain Medicare-related businesses from UnitedHealthcare to Ovations and managed health plan services from UnitedHealthcare to Uniprise. The 2002 segment financial information has been restated for comparability purposes to conform to the current composition of business segments. The restatement had no effect on previously reported 2002 consolidated financial information.
HEALTH CARE SERVICES AND UNIPRISE FRANCHISE PROFILE (individuals served in thousands) (unaudited)
UNITEDHEALTH GROUP RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (in millions) (unaudited) ADJUSTED CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES


