FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20030717134135.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure" and Item 12, "Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On July 17, 2003, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release discussing second quarter 2003 results. The press release is included as Exhibit 99 hereto. The press release contains forward-looking statements regarding the Company.
To supplement our consolidated financial results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the press release also discloses the following non-GAAP information which management believes provides useful information to investors:
Certain account balances and financial measures have been presented in this earnings release excluding our AARP business. Management believes these disclosures are meaningful since underwriting gains or losses related to the AARP business are recorded as an increase or decrease to a rate stabilization fund (RSF) and the effects of changes in balance sheet amounts associated with the AARP program accrue to AARP policyholders through the RSF balance. Although the Company is at risk for underwriting losses to the extent cumulative net losses exceed the balance in the RSF, the Company has not been required to fund any underwriting deficits to date and management believes the RSF balance is sufficient to cover potential future underwriting or other risks associated with the contract.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
The Company and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements in presentations, press releases, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
Table of Contents
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of these risks, uncertainties and other matters can be found in UnitedHealth Group's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, in making these statements, we are not undertaking to address or update each statement in future filings or communications regarding our business or results, and are not undertaking to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 17, 2003
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 99 N E W S R E L E A S E [UNITEDHEALTH GROUP LOGO] Contacts: John S. Penshorn Director of Capital Markets Communications & Strategy 952-936-7214 Patrick J. Erlandson Chief Financial Officer 952-936-5901 (For Immediate Release) UNITEDHEALTH GROUP REPORTS RECORD SECOND QUARTER NET EARNINGS OF $0.71 PER SHARE o REVENUES FOR SECOND QUARTER EXCEEDED $7 BILLION, UP 17% o OPERATING MARGIN REACHED DOUBLE DIGITS o OPERATING CASH FLOWS OF $765 MILLION o RETURN ON EQUITY EXCEEDED 38% o EARNINGS PER SHARE INCREASED 39% MINNEAPOLIS (July 17, 2003) -- UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) achieved record results in the second quarter of 2003, reported Chairman and CEO William W. McGuire, M.D. today. Second quarter results were driven by strong performance across the family of UnitedHealth Group operating businesses.
[UNITEDHEALTH GROUP LOGO] UNITEDHEALTH GROUP HIGHLIGHTS o Second quarter earnings per share of $0.71 increased 39 percent from $0.51 in the second quarter of 2002, and improved 6 cents or 9 percent from the first quarter of 2003. o Second quarter consolidated net earnings increased to $439 million, up $114 million or 35 percent year-over-year and $36 million or 9 percent on a sequential quarter basis. o Consolidated revenues increased $1 billion or 17 percent year-over-year to exceed $7.0 billion, reflecting balanced growth across the Company's business segments. o Operating costs were 16.9 percent of revenues in the second quarter, an improvement of 80 basis points from the second quarter of 2002 and 30 basis points from the first quarter of 2003. o Earnings from operations increased to $709 million in the second quarter, up $186 million or 36 percent over the prior year, and up $56 million or 9 percent sequentially. o Consolidated second quarter operating margin improved to 10.0 percent from 8.6 percent in the second quarter of 2002.
UNITEDHEALTH GROUP HIGHLIGHTS -- CONTINUED o Excluding the AARP division of Ovations, o June 30, 2003 receivables decreased $17 million or 3 percent sequentially to $494 million, and declined $83 million year-over-year, even as related quarterly revenues increased $936 million year-over-year or 18 percent during this time frame. At June 30, there were approximately seven days sales outstanding in receivables. o Medical costs days payable, at 68 days, increased two days in the quarter and were at the high end of the range over the past four years of 64 to 68 days. Medical costs payable increased $64 million or 2 percent in the second quarter, $302 million or 11 percent year-to-date, and $509 million or 19 percent year-over-year, standing at $3.15 billion at June 30, 2003. o During the second quarter the Company realized favorable development of $50 million in its estimates of medical costs incurred in 2002, bringing the year-to-date effect of changes in estimates to $110 million or 0.6 percent of the $18 billion in medical costs reported for 2002. This marks the fifth consecutive year in which initial medical cost estimates developed favorably. Additionally, the Company realized $50 million in positive development related to estimates of medical costs incurred in the first quarter of 2003. This change in estimate of expenses incurred within the first quarter of 2003 had no effect on year-to-date earnings of $1.36 per share. o Cash flows from operations were $765 million for the second quarter, up 16 percent year-over-year. Year-to-date cash flows from operations of $1.5 billion increased 45 percent over the level achieved in the first six months of 2002. o The Company repurchased approximately 8 million shares in the second quarter. o Second quarter 2003 annualized return on equity reached 38.5 percent. CLOSING COMMENT "Our operating units are currently experiencing strong new business sales for 2004 and have significant sales opportunities still emerging. The resulting market share gains, coupled with our continuing service and quality advances, business process improvements, care delivery network strength and distinctive clinical services lead us to expect strong revenue, operating margin, cash flow and return on capital performance over the balance of 2003 and in 2004," Dr. McGuire concluded. "Specifically, we expect full-year 2003 earnings growth of around 34 percent to approximately $2.85 per share, and we now foresee growth in earnings per share in 2004 of 18 percent to 20 percent on this expanded earnings base."
BUSINESS DESCRIPTION UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company that provides a broad spectrum of resources and services to help people improve their health and well-being through all stages of life. Consolidated UnitedHealth Group operating results include the operating performance of the Company's four reportable business segments -- Health Care Services (which includes the results of UnitedHealthcare, AmeriChoice and Ovations), Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This news release may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our present expectations or projections. A list and description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. EARNINGS CONFERENCE CALL As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the Company's second quarter results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 8:45 a.m. Eastern time today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Company's Web site (http://www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The conference call webcast is open to all interested parties.
[UNITEDHEALTHCARE(R) LOGO] [OVATIONS LOGO] A UnitedHealth Group Company A UnitedHealth Group Company [AMERICHOICE LOGO] A UnitedHealth Group Company BUSINESS DESCRIPTION -- HEALTH CARE SERVICES The Health Care Services segment consists of the UnitedHealthcare, AmeriChoice and Ovations business units. UnitedHealthcare coordinates network-based health and well-being services on behalf of local employers and consumers. AmeriChoice facilitates and manages health care services for state Medicaid programs and their beneficiaries. Ovations delivers health and well-being services to Americans over the age of 50, including the administration of supplemental health insurance coverage on behalf of AARP. KEY DEVELOPMENTS FOR HEALTH CARE SERVICES o Revenues for Health Care Services grew $864 million or 16 percent year-over-year in the second quarter of 2003. o Second quarter Health Care Services operating earnings of $450 million increased $136 million or 43 percent year-over-year and $48 million or 12 percent sequentially. o Second quarter operating margin of 7.4 percent expanded 140 basis points year-over-year and 70 basis points sequentially.
KEY DEVELOPMENTS FOR HEALTH CARE SERVICES -- CONTINUED o Second quarter revenues of $3.8 billion for UnitedHealthcare increased 14 percent year-over-year. o UnitedHealthcare commercial membership was essentially flat during the second quarter as growth in new customers served offset the effects of employment attrition at existing customers due to weak business conditions in the U.S. economy. Over the past 12 months UnitedHealthcare expanded its business to more than 200,000 new people, bringing total individuals served to 7.8 million. o UnitedHealthcare's commercial medical care ratio of 80.7 percent was slightly lower than 81.6 percent in the second quarter of 2002 and 81.5 percent in the first quarter of 2003. o AmeriChoice increased enrollment by 25,000 in the second quarter of 2003, and now serves nearly 1.1 million people. o The AmeriChoice business generated strong operational performance in the second quarter of 2003, as the application of its Personal Care Model continued to drive effective and appropriate use of clinical resources while the operating cost profile of the business improved. o Ovations reported record revenues of $1.6 billion in the second quarter, up $75 million or 5 percent year-over-year and $23 million or 1 percent from first quarter 2003. o The actively marketed standardized Medicare supplement program, managed by Ovations on behalf of AARP, realized a net 60,000 increase in subscribers in the second quarter of 2003. The active program subscriber growth rate has continued to accelerate and reached 14 percent on a year-over-year basis.
[UNIPRISE(R) LOGO] A UnitedHealth Group Company BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Uniprise provides network-based health and well-being services, business-to-business transaction processing services, consumer connectivity, and technology support services to large employers and health plans. KEY DEVELOPMENTS o Second quarter revenues of $775 million increased 17 percent over second quarter 2002, principally due to new business growth. o Uniprise directly serves 9.2 million people in the national multi-location employer segment, having added a net total of 565,000 individuals in the past 12 months, despite overall weakness in U.S. corporate employment. Economy-related losses impacted Uniprise membership by more than 50,000 individuals in the second quarter; additionally, there was a loss of one client due to carrier consolidation and another due to a business merger. o Operating margin of 19.7 percent expanded 20 basis points year-over-year and decreased 10 basis points sequentially. Advances in customer service and operational productivity, coupled with growth, contributed to the ongoing strong profitability of the business. o The combination of top-line growth and margin expansion drove second quarter operating income to $153 million, an increase of $24 million or 19 percent year-over-year, and up $1 million or 1 percent from the first quarter of 2003.
[SPECIALIZED CARE SERVICES] A UnitedHealth Group Company BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Specialized Care Services offers a comprehensive array of specialized benefits, networks, services and resources to help consumers improve their health and well-being. KEY DEVELOPMENTS o Second quarter revenues rose to $463 million, up $88 million or 23 percent year-over-year, and up $9 million or 2 percent from the first quarter of 2003, with strong customer growth across the portfolio of companies in this segment. o Every business unit contributed to year-over-year revenue growth, led by very strong performances from Dental Benefit Providers, Spectera, United Behavioral Health, ACN Group and Unimerica. o The Specialized Care Services operating margin of 20.1 percent expanded 2 percentage points from the second quarter of 2002 and 70 basis points sequentially. The operating margin improvement reflected a continuation of the segment's significant progress in aligning assets, technology and operating platforms to improve performance. o In the second quarter, operating earnings of $93 million increased $25 million or 37 percent year-over-year and $5 million or 6 percent sequentially.
[INGENIX LOGO] A UnitedHealth Group Company BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Ingenix is an international leader in the field of health care data, analysis and application. Ingenix serves multiple health care market segments on a business-to-business basis, including pharmaceutical companies, health insurers and other payers, care providers, large employers and governments. KEY DEVELOPMENTS o Ingenix revenues increased 16 percent year-over-year or $17 million to $126 million in the second quarter of 2003. o Second quarter revenues increased $5 million from the first quarter of 2003 as sales grew sequentially even during the weakest seasonal sales quarter for the Ingenix segment. o Ingenix operating earnings increased $1 million or 8 percent year-over-year and $2 million or 18 percent over first quarter 2003 results, as Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services results showed modest sequential improvement in earnings contribution in the second quarter. ###


