FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20041108132634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On Wednesday, November 10, 2004, beginning at 9:30 a.m. EST, the Company will host institutional analysts and investors in New York City. The presentation may be accessed live on the Internet on the Companys investor information page at www.unitedhealthgroup.com. Supplementary data points regarding future financial performance will be posted on the Companys investor information page at www.unitedhealthgroup.com. In conjunction with the meeting, the Company will affirm its previous outlook for 2004 earnings of at least $3.92 per share. Management will also discuss its 2005 financial outlook. A copy of the press release issued by the Company regarding this meeting is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 and incorporated in this Item 7.01 by reference. The press release contains forward-looking statements regarding the Company. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 UnitedHealth Group and its r epresentatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA), including statements in this report, in presentations, press releases (including the press release attached as Exhibit 99 to this report and the investor meeting described in such press release), filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:  increases in medical costs that are higher than anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased use of or cost of medical services;  heightened competition as a result of new entrants into the market and consolidation of both our competitors and suppliers in the industries in which we operate, which may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase customers, to improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, and to maintain or advance profitability;  events that may negatively affect our contract with AARP, including any failure on our part to service AARP customers in an effective manner and any adverse events that directly effect AARP or its business partners;  the uncertain effects on our business of th e new Medicare reform legislation;  costs associated with legislative activity, government regulation and review of our industry, including costs of changes in our business practices in response to new legislation and regulations, costs associated with regular and special governmental audits, investigations and enforcement actions, and costs associated with maintaining necessary regulatory approvals;  a reduction in our bargaining power or a deterioration of our relationships with certain physicians, hospitals and other health care providers;  increases in costs associated with increased litigation and the potential that our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover certain costs;  failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in, among other things, loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, custom er and physician and other health care provider disputes, regulatory problems, and increases in operating expenses;  increases in costs associated with business acquisitions, including assumption of unanticipated liabilities, difficulties in integration, or underperformance of acquired companies;  costs associated with compliance with emerging restrictions on patient privacy, including system changes, development of new administrative processes, and compliance by our business associates;  failure to adequately maintain our proprietary rights to our databases and related products due to lack of legal protections or failure to take necessary precautions, which could hinder our ability to market and sell our products and services; and  the potential impact on the health care industry resulting from acts of terrorism or the threat of future acts of terrorism and related concerns, which could lead to, among other things, increased use of health care servic es, loss of membership in health plans due to reductions in employment, adverse effects on the financial condition of employers who sponsor health care coverage for their employees, disruption of our information and payment systems, increased health care costs and disruption of the financial and insurance markets. This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

N E W S R E L E A S E
(For Immediate Release)
MINNEAPOLIS (November 8, 2004)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) will report at the Company's annual investor conference that it expects continued strong financial performance, driven by accelerating growth and stable to expanding operating margins across its business units.
Management will discuss these trends and their underlying drivers during a meeting with institutional analysts and investors in New York City on November 10, 2004, beginning at 9:30 a.m. EST (8:30 a.m. CST). The Company will also sponsor an audio webcast of this meeting and provide supplementary data points regarding future financial performance on its investor information page at www.unitedhealthgroup.com. Slides will not be distributed at the meeting or presented on the webcast.
In conjunction with the meeting, the Company will affirm its previous outlook for 2004 earnings of at least $3.92 per share, up 32 percent or more from $2.96 per share earned in 2003. Management will also discuss its 2005 financial outlook, which currently includes revenues of approximately $45 billion and earnings per share in a baseline range of $4.70 to $4.75 per share.
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company that provides a broad spectrum of resources and services to help people improve their health and well-being through all stages of life.
Business Description
Statements that UnitedHealth Group may publish, including those in this announcement, that are not strictly historical are "forward-looking" statements under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, which may cause actual results and corporate developments to differ materially from those expected. Factors that could cause results and developments to differ materially from expectations include, without limitation, the effects of state and federal regulations, the effects of acquisitions and divestitures, and other risks described from time to time in each of UnitedHealth Group's SEC reports including quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, annual reports on Form 10-K, and reports on Form 8-K.
Forward-Looking Statements


