FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20040415102732.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 15, 2004, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release discussing first quarter 2004 results. The press release is included as Exhibit 99 hereto. The press release contains forward-looking statements regarding the Company.
 
To supplement our consolidated financial results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the press release also discloses the following non-GAAP information which management believes provides useful information to investors:
 
Certain account balances and financial measures have been presented in this earnings release excluding our AARP business. Management believes these disclosures are meaningful since underwriting gains or losses related to the AARP business are recorded as an increase or decrease to a rate stabilization fund (RSF) and the effects of changes in balance sheet amounts associated with the AARP program accrue to AARP policyholders through the RSF balance. Although the Company is at risk for underwriting losses to the extent cumulative net losses exceed the balance in the RSF, the Company has not been required to fund any underwriting deficits to date and management believes the RSF balance is sufficient to cover potential future underwriting or other risks associated with the contract.
 
Adjusted operating cash flows is presented in the earnings release to facilitate the comparison of cash flows from operating activities for quarterly periods in which the Company does not receive three monthly premium payments from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). CMS is contractually obligated to pay their monthly premium on the first calendar day of the applicable month. If the first calendar day of the month falls on a weekend or a holiday, CMS pays the Company on the last business day of the preceding calendar month. As such, GAAP operating cash flows may vary depending upon the number of payments received by the Company from CMS during a particular quarter. Adjusted operating cash flows presents operating cash flows assuming that each monthly CMS premium payment was received on the first calendar day of the month.
 
ADJUSTED CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
 
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
 
The Company and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements in presentations, press releases, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of these risks, uncertainties and other matters can be found in UnitedHealth Group's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, in making these statements, we are not undertaking to address or update each statement in future filings or communications regarding our business or results, and are not undertaking to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 15, 2004
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
[LOGO OF UNITEDHEALTH GROUP]
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
 
 
MINNEAPOLIS (April 15, 2004)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) achieved record results in the first quarter of 2004, reported Chairman and CEO William W. McGuire, M.D. First quarter results were driven by strong operating performance across the diversified family of UnitedHealth Group businesses and provide a basis for increasing the performance expectations for the balance of the year.
 
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Closing Comment
 
"Our businesses produced strong results again this quarter as we continue to balance our performance around driving growth, sustaining and expanding operating margin and efficiently deploying capital. Our recent acquisitions are performing well, and our customers are responding with interest to our newest initiatives, ranging from clinical centers of excellence programs to cutting-edge digital ID card technology and health savings account product designs," said Dr. McGuire.
 
"Based on our strong first quarter performance and favorable business prospects, we are increasing our outlook for full year 2004 earnings growth and now anticipate earnings of $3.75 to $3.78 per share, representing growth of approximately 26 percent to 28 percent over 2003."
Business Description
 
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company that provides a broad spectrum of resources and services to help people improve their health and well-being through all stages of life. Consolidated UnitedHealth Group operating results include the operating performance of the Company's four reportable business segments  Health Care Services (which includes the results of UnitedHealthcare, AmeriChoice and Ovations), Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our present expectations or projections. A list and description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
Earnings Conference Call
 
As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the Company's results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 8:45 a.m. Eastern time today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Company's Web site (http://www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The conference call webcast is open to all interested parties.
 
Business Description  Health Care Services
 
The Health Care Services segment consists of the UnitedHealthcare, AmeriChoice and Ovations business units. UnitedHealthcare coordinates network-based health and well-being services on behalf of local employers and consumers. AmeriChoice facilitates and manages health care services for state Medicaid programs and their beneficiaries. Ovations delivers health and well-being services to Americans over the age of 50, including the administration of supplemental health insurance coverage on behalf of AARP.
 
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services
 
 
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description
 
Uniprise delivers network-based health and well-being services, business-to-business transaction processing services, consumer connectivity, and technology support services to large employers and health plans, and provides health-related consumer financial transaction services.
 
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
 
Key Developments
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description
 
Specialized Care Services offers a comprehensive array of specialized benefits, networks, services and resources to help consumers improve their health and well-being.
 
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
 
Key Developments
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description
 
Ingenix is an international leader in the field of health care data, analysis and application. Ingenix serves multiple health care market segments on a business-to-business basis, including pharmaceutical companies, health insurers and other payers, physicians and other health care providers, large employers and governments.
 
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
 
Key Developments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
- Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
- Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 
- Segment Financial Information
 
- Customer Profile Summary
 
 
 
The table below summarizes certain balance sheet data excluding AARP related amounts.
 
 
 
REVENUES
 
 
EARNINGS FROM OPERATIONS
 
 


