FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20040729182736.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Acquisition or disposition of assets	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Acquisition or disposition of assets
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2. Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
 
On July 29, 2004, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, a Minnesota corporation ("UnitedHealth Group" or the "Company") completed its acquisition (the "Acquisition") of Oxford Health Plans, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Oxford"). Pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated April 26, 2004 (the "Merger Agreement") by and among UnitedHealth Group, Ruby Acquisition LLC ("Merger Sub") and Oxford, Oxford merged with and into Merger Sub, as a result of which Oxford became a wholly owned subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group.
 
Under the Merger Agreement, each share of Oxford common stock (with certain exceptions set forth in the Merger Agreement) was converted into a right to receive $16.17 in cash and 0.6357 of a share of UnitedHealth Group common stock. All options to purchase Oxford common stock and rights to receive or acquire Oxford restricted or deferred stock units have been converted into options or rights to acquire UnitedHealth Group common stock. The option, restricted stock and deferred stock unit exchange ratio is equal to 0.6357 plus the fraction obtained by dividing $16.17 by the average per share closing price of UnitedHealth Group common stock over the ten trading days preceding the date of the Acquisition. UnitedHealth Group funded the cash portion of the Acquisition through a combination of cash on hand and the issuance of commercial paper.
 
The proxy statement/prospectus mailed to the security holders of Oxford, forming a part of the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration Number 333-115327) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 10, 2004, as amended on June 10, 2004 and June 14, 2004 (the "Registration Statement"), provides certain information about the Acquisition, UnitedHealth Group, Merger Sub and Oxford, including, but not limited to, the nature of UnitedHealth Group's and Oxford's businesses, the principles used in determining the exchange ratio, the nature of any interests of Oxford's officers and directors in the Acquisition, and UnitedHealth Group's intended use of the assets acquired in the Acquisition.
 
The Merger Agreement and the press release dated July 29, 2004, filed as Exhibits 2 and 99 to this report, respectively, are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Balance sheet as of December 31, 2003 (incorporated by reference to the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 filed by Oxford on February 4, 2004, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto on April 29, 2004)
 
Income statements and statements of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2003 (incorporated by reference to the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 filed by Oxford on February 4, 2004, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto on April 29, 2004)
 
Balance sheet as of March 31, 2004 (incorporated by reference to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 filed by Oxford on April 27, 2004)
Income statement and statements of cash flow for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 (incorporated by reference to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 filed by Oxford on April 27, 2004)
 
 
UnitedHealth Group intends to file by amendment to this Form 8-K the required pro forma financial information no later than September 28, 2004.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
N E W S   R E L E A S E
 
[Logo of UnitedHealth Group]
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
(July 29, 2004)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) announced that it has received all necessary approvals to complete its merger with Oxford Health Plans, Inc (Oxford) (NYSE: OHP), and that the merger was completed following the close of business today.
Minneapolis, Minnesota
 
Under the merger agreement, Oxford stockholders will receive $16.17 in cash and 0.6357 of a share of UnitedHealth Group common stock for each share of Oxford common stock.
 
"We look forward to combining the resources of our companies and leveraging our strengths to advance health and well-being on behalf of employers, consumers, physicians and hospitals in the tri-state region," stated Mr. Charles Berg, who will remain chief executive officer of Oxford and additionally will assume responsibility for all UnitedHealthcare operations serving the tri-state markets.
 
UnitedHealth Group projects the acquisition will be immediately additive to earnings per share and will bring 2004 full year earnings per share growth to 30 percent or more. The Company is increasing its expectations for 2004 earnings to a range of $3.86 to $3.88 per share, with projected third quarter earnings of $0.99 to $1.00 per share. The Company now projects 2005 results, inclusive of Oxford, in the range of $4.63 to $4.67 per share.
About UnitedHealth Group
 
UnitedHealth Group () is a diversified 100 company that provides a broad spectrum of resources and services to help people achieve improved health and well-being through all stages of life. UnitedHealth Group offers products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 55 million individuals nationwide.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Fortune
 
About Oxford Health Plans, Inc.
 
Founded in 1984, Oxford Health Plans, Inc. provides health plans to employers and individuals primarily in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, through its direct sales force, independent insurance agents and brokers. Oxford's commercial insured products and services include traditional health maintenance organizations, preferred and exclusive provider organizations, point-of-service plans and consumer-directed health plans. The Company also offers Medicare plans and third-party administration of employer-funded benefits plans. More information about Oxford Health Plans, Inc. is available at www.oxfordhealth.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our present expectations or projections. A list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 


