FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20050120145137.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
This Form 8-K/A amends the Form 8-K filed the morning of January 20, 2005 to replace exhibit 99 filed therewith.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 20, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
 
 
MINNEAPOLIS (January 20, 2005)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) achieved record results in the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2004, reported Chairman and CEO William W. McGuire, M.D. today. Results were driven by balanced contributions across the diversified family of UnitedHealth Group businesses, and included strong growth, as manifest by the extension of services to more than 6 million net new consumers across all of the member-based businesses in 2004.
 
Quarterly and Annual Financial Performance
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Closing Comment
 
"Results for 2004 were excellent, and we enter 2005 in an outstanding position. The growth performance of our businesses is accelerating, our customers are increasingly well served by capabilities facilitated by investments made over the past few years, and we have a new generation of initiatives under way," said Dr. McGuire. "Given this momentum, our challenge remains the realization of the full potential embedded in our businesses, through more fully addressing the breadth of needs in the health care services market and those of the individual consumer.
 
"In that regard, we have made significant investments to directly address the strong demand expressed by employers and consumers for different solutions that enable affordable health care access," Dr. McGuire continued. "Not including the more traditional account-based products like flexible spending vehicles, by the end of the first quarter of 2005 we expect to serve a total of 1.25 million people through the latest generation of offerings, including 880,000 using new consumer directed account-based health benefits products. Furthermore, new products will provide 3 million current customers with improved access for non-covered services. We expect a continuing expansion of these programs, and in the number of people they serve, during 2005 and 2006."
 
The Company noted that its near term financial performance outlook has strengthened, even as it pursues these broader goals. Earnings per share for 2005 are now expected in the range of $4.75 to $4.80, an increase of 5 cents per share over the Company's most recent view and representing a 21 percent to 22 percent earnings advance over the $3.94 per share earned in 2004.
 
Business Description  Health Care Services
 
The Health Care Services segment consists of the UnitedHealthcare, AmeriChoice and Ovations business units. UnitedHealthcare coordinates network-based health and well-being services on behalf of local employers and consumers. AmeriChoice facilitates and manages health care services for state Medicaid programs and their beneficiaries. Ovations delivers health and well-being services to Americans over the age of 50.
 
Quarterly and Annual Financial Performance
 
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services
 
 
 
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description
 
Uniprise delivers network-based health and well-being services, business-to-business transaction processing services, consumer connectivity, and technology support services to large employers and health plans, and provides health-related consumer and financial transaction products and services.
 
Quarterly and Annual Financial Performance
 
 
Key Developments
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description
 
Specialized Care Services offers a comprehensive array of specialized benefits, networks, services and resources to help consumers improve their health and well-being.
 
Quarterly and Annual Financial Performance
 
 
Key Developments
 
 
 
 
Business Description
 
Ingenix is an international leader in the field of health care data, analysis and application. Ingenix serves multiple health care market segments on a business-to-business basis, including pharmaceutical companies, health insurers and other payers, physicians and other health care providers, large employers and governments.
 
Quarterly and Annual Financial Performance
 
 
Key Developments
 
 
 
 
About UnitedHealth Group
 
UnitedHealth Group (www.unitedhealthgroup.com) is a diversified health and well-being company that provides a broad spectrum of resources and services to help people improve their health and well-being through all stages of life. Consolidated UnitedHealth Group operating results include the operating performance of the Company's four reportable business segments  Health Care Services (which includes the results of UnitedHealthcare, AmeriChoice and Ovations), Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our present expectations or projections. A list and description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
Earnings Conference Call
 
As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the Company's results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 8:45 a.m. Eastern time today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Investor Information page of the Company's Web site (www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The webcast replay of the call will be available on the same site for one week following the live call. The conference call replay can also be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID # 2952732. This earnings release and the Form 8-K dated January 20, 2005, which may also be accessed in the Investor Information section of the Company's Web site, include a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REVENUES
 
 


