FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20050414080817.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 14, 2005, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release discussing first quarter 2005 results. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 and incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference. The press release contains forward-looking statements regarding the Company.
 
To supplement our consolidated financial results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the press release also discloses the following non-GAAP information which management believes provides useful information to investors:
 
Certain account balances and financial measures have been presented in this earnings release excluding our AARP business. Management believes these disclosures are meaningful since underwriting gains or losses related to the AARP business are recorded as an increase or decrease to a rate stabilization fund (RSF) and the effects of changes in balance sheet amounts associated with the AARP program accrue to the overall benefit of the AARP policyholders through the RSF balance. Although the Company is at risk for underwriting losses to the extent cumulative net losses exceed the balance in the RSF, the Company has not been required to fund any underwriting deficits to date and management believes the RSF balance is sufficient to cover potential future underwriting or other risks associated with the contract.
 
Adjusted operating cash flows is presented in the earnings release to facilitate the comparison of cash flows from operating activities for quarterly periods in which the Company does not receive three monthly premium payments from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). CMS is contractually obligated to pay their monthly premium on the first calendar day of the applicable month. If the first calendar day of the month falls on a weekend or a holiday, CMS pays the Company on the last business day of the preceding calendar month. As such, GAAP operating cash flows may vary depending upon the number of payments received by the Company from CMS during a particular quarter. Adjusted operating cash flows presents operating cash flows assuming that each monthly CMS premium payment was received on the first calendar day of the month.
 
 
ADJUSTED CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
 
UnitedHealth Group and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA), including statements in this report, in presentations, press releases (including the earnings release attached as Exhibit 99 to this report and the earnings conference call described in such earnings release), filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 14, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINNEAPOLIS (April 14, 2005)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) achieved record results in the first quarter of 2005, reported Chairman and CEO William W. McGuire, M.D. First quarter results were driven by strong and diverse growth and consistent operating performance across the spectrum of UnitedHealth Group businesses, with every reporting segment producing both year-over-year gains in earnings from operations and expanded operating margins.
 
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Closing Comment
 
"Our focus on the imperatives of affordability, access, quality and usability  applied broadly within the heath care system  has positioned us for sustained future performance," Dr. McGuire stated. "We are confident that our on-going investments in technology, tools for data analysis, and the organization of health care resources, coupled with evolving partnerships with large employers, health plans and intermediaries will improve the value of services we deliver and help us expand our market share.
 
"Looking specifically to 2005 financial performance," Dr. McGuire concluded, "our strong first quarter results and improving business momentum are cause for a strengthened forward outlook. We anticipate a year-over-year advance of more than $1.1 billion in full year 2005 earnings from operations, and now foresee growth in earnings per share of 23 percent to 24 percent in 2005, with earnings in the range of $4.85 to $4.90 per share."
 
Business Description  Health Care Services
 
The Health Care Services segment consists of the UnitedHealthcare, AmeriChoice and Ovations business units. UnitedHealthcare coordinates network-based health and well-being services on behalf of multistate mid-sized and local employers and for consumers. AmeriChoice facilitates and manages health care services for state-sponsored Medicaid programs and their beneficiaries. Ovations delivers health and well-being services to Americans over the age of 50.
 
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services
 
 
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description
 
Uniprise delivers network-based health and well-being services, business-to-business transaction processing services, consumer connectivity, and technology support services to large employers and health plans, and provides health-related consumer and financial transaction products and services.
 
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
 
Key Developments
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description
 
Specialized Care Services offers a comprehensive array of specialized benefits, networks, services and resources to help consumers improve their health and well-being.
 
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
 
Key Developments
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description
 
Ingenix is a leader in the field of health care data, analysis and application, serving pharmaceutical companies, health insurers and other payers, physicians and other health care providers, large employers and governments.
 
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
 
Key Developments
 
 
 
 
 
About UnitedHealth Group
 
UnitedHealth Group () is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves approximately 55 million individuals nationwide.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our present expectations or projections. A list and description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
Earnings Conference Call
 
As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the Company's results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 8:45 a.m. Eastern time today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Investor Information page of the Company's Web site (www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The webcast replay of the call will be available on the same site for one week following the live call. The conference call replay can also be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID #4978700. This earnings release and the Form 8-K dated April 14, 2005, which may also be accessed in the Investor Information section of the Company's Web site, include a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REVENUES
 
 


