FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20051109064449.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
 
On Wednesday, November 9, 2005, beginning at 8:00 a.m. EST, the Company will host institutional analysts and investors in New York City. The presentation may be accessed live on the Internet on the Company's investor information page at www.unitedhealthgroup.com. Supplementary data points regarding future financial performance will be posted on the Company's investor information page at www.unitedhealthgroup.com. In conjunction with the meeting, the Company will affirm its previous outlook for 2005 earnings of at least $2.48 per share. Management will also discuss its 2006 financial outlook. A copy of the press release issued by the Company regarding this meeting is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 and incorporated in this Item 7.01 by reference. The press release contains forward-looking statements regarding the Company.
 
The Company will also discuss future projected performance, including the effects of the pending PacifiCare merger as if the merger were to be completed on December 31, 2005. In that scenario, UnitedHealth Group would offer the following estimates:
 
 
In its investor materials the Company will also review its longstanding outlook for future financial performance, including generating earnings per share growth in excess of 15 percent per annum over the next five years. Key elements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
 
UnitedHealth Group and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA), including statements in this report, in presentations, press releases, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. Statements about 2005 year-end results and 2006 results are forward-looking statements. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking
statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
Important Merger Information
In connection with the proposed transactions, UnitedHealth Group and PacifiCare have filed relevant materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including a registration statement on Form S-4 that contains a prospectus and proxy statement. Because those documents contain important information, holders of PacifiCare common stock are urged to read them. The registration statement, including the prospectus and proxy statement are available for free (along with any other documents and reports filed by UnitedHealth Group and PacifiCare with the SEC) at the SEC's Web site, www.sec.gov. In addition, PacifiCare stockholders may obtain free copies of the documents filed with the SEC by PacifiCare by directing a written request to PacifiCare Health Systems Inc., 5995 Plaza Drive, Cypress, CA 90630, Attention: Investor Relations.
 
UnitedHealth Group and its directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from the holders of PacifiCare common stock in connection with the proposed transactions. Information about the directors and executive officers of UnitedHealth Group is set forth in the proxy statement for UnitedHealth Group's 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 7, 2005. Investors may obtain additional information regarding the interests of such participants by reading the prospectus and proxy solicitation statement dated October 12, 2005.
 
PacifiCare and its directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from the holders of PacifiCare common stock in connection with the proposed transaction. Information about the directors and executive officers of PacifiCare and their ownership of PacifiCare common stock is set forth in the proxy statement for PacifiCare's 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 13, 2005. Investors may obtain additional information regarding the interests of such participants by reading the prospectus and proxy solicitation statement if and when it becomes available.
 
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 8, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
 
 
(November 8, 2005)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) will report at the Company's annual investor conference that it expects continued strong financial performance, driven by gains from increasing market share and strong operating margins across each of its business units.
MINNEAPOLIS
 
Management will discuss its operating performance and outlook, a view of broad market dynamics and trends and the reasons it expects to capitalize on them, and specific insights into its various business activities during a meeting with institutional analysts and investors in New York City on November 9, 2005, beginning at 8:00 a.m. EST. The Company will also sponsor an audio webcast of this meeting and provide supplementary data points regarding future financial performance on its investor information page at . Slides will not be distributed at the meeting or presented on the webcast.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
 
In conjunction with the meeting, the Company will affirm its previous outlook for 2005 earnings of $2.48 per share, up 26 percent from $1.97 per share earned in 2004. Management will also discuss its 2006 financial outlook, which currently includes revenues of approximately $52 billion and earnings of $2.90 per share, including an estimate of five cents in earnings per share contribution from Medicare Part D but without consideration of any contributions from its pending merger with PacifiCare Health Systems.
Business Description
UnitedHealth Group (www.unitedhealthgroup.com) is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 55 million individuals nationwide.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our present expectations or projections. A list and description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 


