FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20051014073247.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 14, 2005, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release discussing third quarter 2005 results. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 and incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference. The press release contains forward-looking statements regarding the Company.
 
To supplement our consolidated financial results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the press release also discloses the following non-GAAP information which management believes provides useful information to investors:
 
Certain account balances and financial measures have been presented in this earnings release excluding our AARP business. Management believes these disclosures are meaningful since underwriting gains or losses related to the AARP business are recorded as an increase or decrease to a rate stabilization fund (RSF) and the effects of changes in balance sheet amounts associated with the AARP program accrue to the overall benefit of the AARP policyholders through the RSF balance. Although the Company is at risk for underwriting losses to the extent cumulative net losses exceed the balance in the RSF, the Company has not been required to fund any underwriting deficits to date and management believes the RSF balance is sufficient to cover potential future underwriting or other risks associated with the contract.
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
 
UnitedHealth Group and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA), including statements in this report, in presentations, press releases (including the earnings release attached as Exhibit 99 to this report and the earnings conference call described in such earnings release), filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 14, 2005
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINNEAPOLIS (October 14, 2005)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) achieved record results in the third quarter of 2005, reported Chairman and CEO William W. McGuire, M.D. "Third quarter results were driven by strong and diverse growth coupled with consistent operating performance across the spectrum of UnitedHealth Group businesses. Every reporting segment produced year-over-year and sequential quarterly advances in operating earnings, and our businesses in the aggregate brought services to yet another half a million Americans in the past three months."
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Closing Comment
 
"Our efforts are directed at advancing quality, access, affordability and simplicity in health care systems  and doing so for a wide array of customers and markets," stated Dr. McGuire. "We are pleased to see that pursuing better ways to organize health resources, apply technology and use data  all done through a diverse and responsible group of businesses  is producing positive results for all concerned parties.
 
"Our business outlook is favorable. The continued strategic and operating advances we are making, combined with strong organic growth now being realized as each of our businesses expands their market share, will drive positive performance into 2006. We now expect full year earnings of $2.48 per share in 2005, a 26 percent advance, and foresee further earnings per share growth in 2006 of 15 percent or more, prior to considering any per share contributions from the launch of our new prescription drug plans for seniors or the pending PacifiCare merger."
 
Business Description  Health Care Services
 
The Health Care Services segment consists of the UnitedHealthcare, AmeriChoice and Ovations business units. UnitedHealthcare coordinates network-based health and well-being services on behalf of multistate mid-sized and local employers and for consumers. AmeriChoice facilitates and manages health care services for state Medicaid programs and their beneficiaries. Ovations delivers health and well-being services to Americans over the age of 50.
 
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services
 
 
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description
 
Uniprise delivers network-based health and well-being services, business-to-business transaction processing services, consumer connectivity, and technology support services to large employers and health plans, and provides health-related consumer and financial transaction products and services.
 
 
Key Developments
 
 
 
 
Business Description
 
Specialized Care Services offers a comprehensive array of specialized benefits, networks, services and resources to help consumers improve their health and well-being.
 
 
Key Developments
 
 
 
 
Business Description
 
Ingenix is a leader in the field of health care data, analysis and application, serving pharmaceutical companies, health insurers and other payers, physicians and other health care providers, large employers and governments.
 
 
Key Developments
 
 
 
 
About UnitedHealth Group
 
UnitedHealth Group () is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 55 million individuals nationwide.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our present expectations or projections. A list and description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
Earnings Conference Call
 
As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the Company's results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 8:45 a.m. Eastern time today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Investor Information page of the Company's Web site (www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The webcast replay of the call will be available on the same site for one week following the live call. The conference call replay can also be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID # 9434578. This earnings release and the Form 8-K dated October 14, 2005, which may also be accessed in the Investor Information section of the Company's Web site, include a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The table below summarizes certain balance sheet data excluding AARP related amounts:
 
 
 
 


