FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20060426184716.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On April 26, 2006, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") announced that its Board of Directors, as part of the Board's ongoing commitment to advance best practices in corporate governance, has taken the following actions:  Agreed that it will recommend that shareholders vote at the 2007 Annual Meeting to amend the Company's articles of incorporation to declassify its Board of Directors and remove supermajority approval requirements;  Implemented share ownership guidelines for officers and directors;  Implemented a requirement that all members of the Audit Committee be financial experts;  Limited the number of outside boards of directors on which its directors may serve to 6;  Appointed co-presiding lead directors for executive sessions; and  Required all directors to attend director's education sessions. In addition to the actions in the governance area, the Company also announced that the Board of Dire ctors will act on the following items on Monday, May 1, 2006:  Elimination of enhanced severance compensation in connection with change-in-control transactions;  Freezing of benefits under Supplemental Retirement Plans;  Elimination of non-cash perquisites for reporting officers; and  Termination of further equity-based awards for a small number of the Companys most senior and longest tenured executives for whom equity positions are well-established from prior years of service. In addition to these items, the Board will also review overall levels of equity-based compensation, performance criteria for equity grants, vesting policies and level of director compensation. Also on April 26, 2006, the Company issued a letter to its stockholders. A copy of the letter is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The letter contains forward-looking statements regarding the Company, to which the following cautionary statement applies: CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 UnitedHealth Group and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA), including statements in this report, in presentations, press releases, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, to stockholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involv e risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:  increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption of or costs of medical services;  heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers;  events that may negatively affect our contract with AARP;  uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions;  funding risks with respect to revenue received from Medicare and Medicaid programs;  increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, legislative activity and gover nment regulation and review of our industry;  our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service providers;  regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry;  failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care provider disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences;  possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire;  potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data;  misappropriation of our proprietary techno logy; and  anticipated benefits of acquiring PacifiCare may not be realized. This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1 Copy of letter issued by the Company on April 26, 2006
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 9900 Bren Road East Minnetonka, Minnesota 55343
April 26, 2006
Dear Shareholder:
Last week UnitedHealth Group announced record first quarter 2006 results reflecting strong growth in each of the company's business units. We also increased our full year earnings growth outlook to a range of 22% to 24% in 2006 over comparable 2005 results. As further evidence of our strength, cash flow from operations is projected to increase this year by $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion over 2005 to a range of $5.7 billion to $5.9 billion, well in excess of our estimated net income of $4.1 billion.
We know UnitedHealth Group shareholders have come to expect this kind of performance. Assuming reinvestment of dividends, an investor who purchased $100 of UnitedHealth Group stock on January 1, 2000 would have had, at December 31, 2005, an investment valued at $938.22. In comparison, $100 invested in the S&P 500 five years ago would have been worth $84.96 at December 31. To look at another measure, over the 15-year period ended December 31, 2005, UnitedHealth Group's earnings per share grew at a compound annual growth rate of 32%. The appreciation of the company's stock (nearly 70 fold since the beginning of 1991) is comparable to that of the dot com companies at the height of the tech boom, except that in UnitedHealth's case, this performance was based on achievement, not promise and has been sustained for over 15 years. 
The success of UnitedHealth Group in large part reflects the exceptional efforts of the company's employees, more than 14,000 of whom participated in the company's equity-based incentive programs. The company has attracted and retained arguably the finest group of managers possible, people competitively recruited to the company from other high-growth and performance fields, such as technology, communications, Internet, banking and health care. The value of our diverse and accomplished leadership team has been widely recognized and applauded by shareholders and other observers year after year. UnitedHealth Group has been able to attract and motivate such employees by offering competitive incentive packages. While so doing, the Board focused on the use of equity for incentive programs so as to minimize any impact on costs for its clients, while aligning the interests of employees and shareholders.   The Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors oversees the compensation programs and continuously works to realize this alignment of shareholder, employee and customer value.
At UnitedHealth Group, we recognize that ongoing self-assessment and refinement is fundamental to maintaining the highest standards of performance and integrity. Consistent with this commitment, the Compensation Committee is considering changes to the way our most senior people are compensated. Their review will address the elimination of change-in-control severance payments and non-cash perquisites and foregoing for the foreseeable future further equity-based grants or awards for a small number of our most senior and longest tenured executives for whom equity positions are well-established from prior years of service. I am included in that group. The Compensation Committee will be considering these matters soon, and acting on them at the upcoming Board meeting next week.
In addition to executive compensation, the entire Board of Directors is committed to ongoing advancement in best practices in corporate governance. Consistent with this goal, today we are announcing that the Board has approved a number of governance initiatives, including recommending that shareholders vote at the 2007 Annual Meeting to declassify the Board of Directors and eliminate super majority approval provisions in the company's articles of incorporation.
As you are also probably aware, there have been a variety of reports recently in the media and elsewhere raising concerns about stock option grant practices at a number of public companies, including UnitedHealth Group. As soon as we became aware of the criticism, we commenced a thorough review of our own historic practices through the appointment of a Committee comprised of independent directors with independent legal counsel. Once that retrospective review concludes, the Board and I, along with the rest of the management team, will report the results and will act, if necessary, to ensure that shareholders' interests are fully met.
It is important that we ensure that this and other vital work of the Compensation Committee, as well as the Board itself, continues by voting to re-elect James Johnson and Mary Mundinger to the Board of Directors. You may know that the proxy advisory firm ISS recommended on April 19 that its institutional clients vote to withhold their support from these nominees. I and our full Board disagree with this recommendation for three reasons.
th
First, ISS's criticism of our Board's Compensation Committee derives from the very same matters the Board is, even at this moment, addressing. The Compensation Committee, now headed by James Johnson, has initiated a series of compensation-related improvements for the company that seek to lessen the shareholder impact of equity-related compensation, while at the same time ensuring that senior managers continue to hold appropriate equity positions in the company. New policies and changes have already been taken relative to these issues, and further new changes are also under review for action. These directors are driving improvements in very real time.
Second, while the withhold vote can be considered "symbolic" or a way to "send a message" where directors are elected by a plurality of votes cast at a meeting of shareholders, such votes have far greater significance for UnitedHealth Group's director nominees. This is because, as you may recall, UnitedHealth Group recently instituted a majority voting policy as part of its progressive efforts to bring governance practices in line with the requests of shareholder representative groups such as ISS. The new policy provides that, in an uncontested election, any nominee for director who receives a greater number of votes "withheld" from his or her election than votes "for" such election shall promptly tender his or her resignation following certification of the shareholder vote. The Nominating Committee is obligated to consider the resignation offer and make a recommendation to the Board. The Board, in turn, must act on the Nominating Committee's recommendation within 90 days following certification of the shareholder vote and disclose its decision in a news release.
Finally, James Johnson and Mary Mundinger have served our company since 1993 and 1997, respectively, and their talents, experience and knowledge of our company are invaluable. They have intimate knowledge regarding our company's areas of focus, are experienced in public company matters, and embody the highest standards of integrity. As your Board considers changes to the way managers are rewarded  changes made appropriate and heightened by our success as a company  you deserve the insight and experience of these dedicated and seasoned members.
The shareholder meeting is May 2. Please return a vote FOR all four directors standing for election. In this constantly changing environment, there is no one better qualified to continue the work of guiding your company.
Sincerely,
[signature cut]
William W. McGuire, M.D. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


