FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20061102174713.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") entered into an amendment to its employment agreement with each of the Company's executive officers listed below to eliminate enhanced monetary severance compensation to each executive officer in connection with change-in-control transactions: Richard H. Anderson - Executive Vice President, UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer, Ingenix Tracy L. Bahl - Chief Executive Officer, Uniprise Patrick J. Erlandson - Chief Financial Officer William A. Munsell - Chief Executive Officer, Specialized Care Services Lois E. Quam - Chief Executive Officer, Ovations Robert J. Sheehy - Chief Executive Officer, UnitedHealthcare David S. Wichmann - President and Chief Operating Officer, UnitedHealthcare, and Senior Vice President, UnitedHealth Group The amendments completed implementation of an action announced by the Company's Board of Directors on May 1, 2006. The above summary is qualified by reference to the complete t ext of the Forms of Memorandum of Understanding filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 (which form has been executed by each of the above-named executive officers except Mr. Anderson) and Exhibit 10.2 (which form has been executed by Mr. Anderson), each of which is incorporated in this Item 1.01 by reference. On October 31, 2006, the Company amended its Executive Savings Plan. The amended plan decreases the maximum salary deferral percentage from 100% to 80%, increases the minimum annual salary threshold for plan participation from $100,000 to $150,000, and brings the plan into compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the amendment, existing plan participants will continue to be eligible to participate in the Executive Savings Plan regardless of whether such participants meet the amended minimum annual salary threshold. This summary is qualified by reference to the complete text of the First Amendment to UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan (2004 Statement) filed herewith as Exhibit 10.3 and is incorporated in this Item 1.01 by reference. Also on October 31, 2006, the Company amended its Directors' Compensation Deferral Plan to bring the plan into compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. The Second Amendment to UnitedHealth Group Directors' Compensation Deferral Plan (2002 Statement) is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.4 and is incorporated in this Item 1.01 by reference.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On October 25, 2006, the Company filed a complaint against The Bank of New York, in its capacity as trustee under the Company's indenture governing its debt securities, and Cede & Co., in its capacity as the registered holder of the debt securities, in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota. The complaint seeks, among other things, a declaratory judgment that the Company is not in default under its indenture. This action was in response to a purported notice of default received by the Company alleging a violation of the Company's indenture, which the Company previously announced on August 28, 2006. On or about November 2, 2006, the Company received a purported notice of acceleration from the holders who previously sent the notice of default that purports to declare an acceleration of the Company's 5.80% Subordinated Notes due March 15, 2036 (the "Notes") as a result of the Company's not filing its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. As pr eviously announced, the Company believes it is not in default under its indenture and intends to defend itself vigorously. The Company also believes that no event of default entitling holders to accelerate has occurred with respect to the Notes. The Company's indenture requires it to provide to the trustee copies of the reports the Company is required to file with the SEC, such as its quarterly reports, within 15 days of filing such reports with the SEC. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 UnitedHealth Group and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA), including statements in this report, in presentations, press releases, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Generally the words "believe," " expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the potential consequences of the findings announced on October 15, 2006 of the investigation by an Independent Committee of directors of our stock option programs (including assessing what accounting adjustments and disclosures may be required to our financial results and determining whether we need to restate previously filed financial statements, as to which no decision has been made), related governmental reviews by the SEC, IRS, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and Minnesota Attorney General, and related shareholder derivative actions, shareholder demands and purported securities class actions, a purported notice of acceleration with respect to certain of the Company's debt securities based upon an alleged event of default under the indenture governing such securities, the management and director changes and a likely delay in filing our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 announced on October 15, 2006, and the potential impact of each of these matters on our business, credit ratings and debt; increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption of or costs of medical services; heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of healt h care companies and suppliers; events that may negatively affect our contract with AARP; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; funding risks with respect to revenues received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, legislative activity and government regulation and review of our industry; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service providers; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care provider disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse cons equences; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; and anticipated benefits of acquiring PacifiCare that may not be realized. This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forwar d-looking statements.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit Description 10.1 Form of Memorandum of Understanding, effective as of October 31, 2006, by and between UnitedHealth Group and each of Patrick J. Erlandson, Tracy L. Bahl, William A. Munsell, Lois E. Quam, Robert J. Sheehy, and David S. Wichmann 10.2 Form of Memorandum of Understanding, effective as of October 31, 2006, by and between UnitedHealth Group and Richard H. Anderson 10.3 First Amendment to UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan (2004 Statement) 10.4 Second Amendment to UnitedHealth Group Directors' Compensation Deferral Plan (2002 Statement)
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 10.1
UnitedHealth Group
To:
From:
Date:
Amendment to Employment Agreement
Re:
As you are aware, the Board of Directors has requested that all Section 16 officers agree to remove enhanced severance tied to a change in control. To this end, the following section will be eliminated from your employment agreement:
Should there be a change in control and your employment is terminated without cause, you will still be eligible for severance compensation as provided under Section 3.D.1.
Please sign this memorandum to acknowledge your agreement to this change.
Signature:
Date:
United HealthCare Services, Inc.
By:
Its:
Date:

Exhibit 10.2
UnitedHealth Group
To:
From:
Date:
Amendment to Employment Agreement
Re:
As you are aware, the Board of Directors has requested that all Section 16 officers agree to remove enhanced severance tied to a change in control. To this end, the following section will be eliminated from your employment agreement:
Should there be a change in control and your employment is terminated without cause, you will still be eligible for severance compensation as provided under Section 4.B.1.
Please sign this memorandum to acknowledge your agreement to this change.
Signature:
Date:
United HealthCare Services, Inc.
By:
Its:
Date:

Exhibit 10.3
WHEREAS, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, a Minnesota corporation ("UnitedHealth Group"), has heretofore established and maintains several nonqualified, deferred compensation programs (the "ESP") for the benefit of a select group of management or highly compensated employees of UnitedHealth Group and certain affiliates of UnitedHealth Group;
WHEREAS, Said programs are currently embodied in a single document which is effective January 1, 2004, and which is entitled "UNITEDHEALTH GROUP EXECUTIVE SAVINGS PLAN (2004 Statement)" (hereinafter referred to as the "Plan Statement"); and
WHEREAS, The Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group has delegated to the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors the power and authority to amend the Plan Statement; and
WHEREAS, UnitedHealth Group wishes to amend the Plan Statement to provide for the following: (i) to reflect that special rules that will apply for those individuals who are currently contributing to the ESP but will not satisfy the new requirements beginning in 2007, (ii) to decrease the maximum contribution percentage for the Salary Deferral Option, (iii) to reflect that participants may change their investment credit fund elections as of each business day, (iv) to reflect that certain participants may change their distribution election for their 2006 deferrals under the special 409A transitional rules, (v) to bring the ESP into compliance with requirements of section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, and (vi) to make other clarifying or administrative changes.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, That the Plan Statement is hereby amended in the following respect:
1. DISABILITY-COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2005, the definition of "Disability" in Section 1.2.8 of the Plan Statement shall be amended by adding the following sentence at the end thereof:
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the terms Disability and Disabled shall at all times be interpreted in a manner so as not to violate section 409A of the Code.
2. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT-COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2005, Section 1.2.21 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:
1.2.21.  a complete separation from service (as that term is defined under section 409A of the Code) with the Employers and all Affiliates for any reason other than the employee's death. A transfer from employment with an Employer to employment with another Employer or an Affiliate of an Employer shall not constitute a Termination of Employment. If an Employer who is an Affiliate ceases to be an Affiliate because of a sale of substantially all the stock or assets of the Employer, then Participants who are employed by that Employer and who cease to be employed by an Employer on account of such sale shall be deemed to have thereby had a Termination of Employment for the purpose of commencing distributions from this Plan.
Termination of Employment
3. SPECIAL ELIGIBILITY RULES. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2007, Section 1 of the Plan Statement shall be amended by adding thereto the following new Section 1.3:
1.3. .
Special Eligibility Rules
1.3.1. . Effective January 1, 2003, UnitedHealth Group modified the Eligible Grade Levels. Any employee who (i) was deferring under the Legacy Executive Savings Plan in 2002, (ii) was transferred from Salary Grade 31 or 32 to the new SBL Sales Band in 2002 or 2003, and (iii) whose base salary equals or exceeds the compensation criteria level in effect for 2002, shall be considered to be eligible to continue to participate in the Legacy Executive Savings Plan for 2003 and in this Plan for 2004 and all subsequent Plan Years, provided (a) such employee remains in the SBL Sales Band or transfers to the SSL Sales Band, (b) such employee's base salary for 2003 and all later years equals or exceeds the compensation criteria level in effect for 2002, and (c) such employee continuously elects to defer under the Legacy Executive Savings Plan for 2003 and this Plan for 2004 and later years. Any employee described in this Section 1.3.1 who declines to participate in the Legacy Executive Savings Plan for 2003 or this Plan for 2004 or any later year shall not be eligible to participate in this Plan for any subsequent Plan Year unless such employee enters an Eligible Grade Level and is selected for participation for a subsequent Plan Year by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital.
Special Eligibility Rule for Certain Employees in the SBL Band
1.3.2. . Effective for the Plan Year beginning January 1, 2007, UnitedHealth Group increased the compensation criteria for the Eligible Grade Levels (described in Section 1.2.10). Any employee (i) who was deferring under this Plan, the American Medical Security Nonqualified Executive Retirement Plan, the PacifiCare Health Systems, Inc. Statutory Restoration Plan or the PacifiCare Health Systems, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan in 2006, (ii) who remains in an eligible grade level, and (iii) whose base salary equals or exceeds the compensation criteria level in effect for 2006, shall be considered to be eligible to continue to participate in the Plan for 2007 and all subsequent Plan Years, provided (a) such employee remains in an eligible grade level, (b) such employee's base salary for 2007 and all later years equals or exceeds the compensation criteria in effect for 2006, and (c) such employee continues to elect to defer under the Plan for 2007 and later years. Any employee described in this Section 1.3.2 who declines to participate in the Plan for 2007 or any later year shall not be eligible to participate in the Plan for any subsequent Plan Year unless such employee is in an Eligible Grade Level and is selected for participation for a subsequent Plan Year by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital.
Special Eligibility Rule for 2007
4. SPECIAL ELECTION TO CHANGE THE FORM OF DISTRIBUTION FOR 2006 DEFERRALS UNDER THE SECTION 409A TRANSITIONAL RULES. Effective for the Plan Year beginning January 1, 2006, Section 1 of the Plan Statement shall be amended by adding thereto the following new Section 1.4:
1.4. . Under the special transitional rules under section 409A of the Code and related treasury regulations and guidance, UnitedHealth Group shall permit any Participant:
Special Transitional Rules under Section 409A of the Code
to elect a different form of distribution for that portion of the Participant's Account attributable to deferrals and matching contribution (if any) for the 2006 Plan Year, including deferrals of incentive awards earned in 2006 and paid in 2007. To be effective, the new distribution election must be received by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital or his or her designee prior to December 31, 2006 (or such earlier deadline designated by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital). It is intended that any election made pursuant to this Section 1.4 shall not be treated as a change in the form or timing of payment under section 409A(a)(4) of the Code or an acceleration of payment under section 409A(a)(3) of the Code.
5. CLARIFICATION REGARDING PLAN AND PLAN STATEMENT. Effective as of January 1, 2004, Sections 1.2.16 and 1.2.17 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:
1.2.16.  the two nonqualified, unfunded, deferred compensation programs maintained by the Employers for the benefit of Participants eligible to participate therein, as set forth in this Plan Statement: (1) the 401(k) Restoration Option Plan (which is attributable to credits to Accounts described in Section 3), and (2) the Incentive Deferral and Salary Deferral Option Plan (which is attributable to credits to Accounts described in Section 4). (As used herein, "Plan" does not refer to the document pursuant to which the Plan is maintained. That document is referred to herein as the "Plan Statement".) The Plan shall be referred to as the "UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan." The Plan consists of two distinct and mutually exclusive parts applicable to different benefits depending on when the benefit was earned under this Plan. These two (2) parts are:
Plan
1.2.17.  for purposes of the 2004 Executive Savings Plan (as described in Section 1.2.16(a)), "Plan Statement" means this document entitled "UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan (2004 Statement)" as adopted by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital and generally effective as of January 1, 2004, as the same may be amended from time to time thereafter. For purposes of the Legacy Executive Savings Plan (as described in Section 1.2.16(b)), "Plan Statement" means the document entitled "UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan (1998 Statement)" as adopted by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital and generally effective as of January 1, 1998, as the same may be amended from time to time thereafter. The plan document for the UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan consists of the Plan Statement for the 2004 Executive Savings Plan and the plan statement for the Legacy Executive Savings Plan.
Plan Statement
6. INITIAL ELIGIBILITY AND COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A OF THE CODE. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2005, Section 2.1 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:
2.1. . Each employee of an Employer who is in an Eligible Grade Level during a Plan Year and who is selected for participation in the Plan for a particular Plan Year by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital (or, for a Section 16 Officer, by the Board of Directors) shall become a Participant in this Plan as of the first day of the Plan Year.
General and Enrollment Requirements
When an employee is initially selected for participation, the Senior Vice President, Human Capital (or, for a Section 16 Officer, by the Board of Directors) may designate that such employee will be allowed to become a Participant as of a fixed prospective date that is other than the first day of a Plan Year so long as that prospective date is within thirty (30) days of selection and the employee has never before been eligible to participate in or in fact participated in any nonqualified plan of the Employer or Affiliates. In such a case, the references to Plan Year shall, as the context requires, refer to the initial short Plan Year and the reference to first day of the Plan Year shall, as the context requires, refer to the first day of that short Plan Year.
If an employee selected for participation in this Plan for one Plan Year is not selected for a subsequent Plan Year or if an employee selected for participation ceases to be a member of a select group of management or highly compensated employees (as that expression is used in ERISA), no further deferral shall be made by or for that employee but the Account shall not thereby become distributable.
7. 401(K) RESTORATION OPTION AND COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A OF THE CODE. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2005, Sections 3.2 and 3.3 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:
3.2. . If an employee who is in an Eligible Grade Level: (a) is selected for participation in this Plan after the first day of a Plan Year, and (b) has reached the annual deferral limit under section 402(g) of the Code under a qualified plan before becoming an employee of the Employer, such employee shall be eligible to participate in the 401(k) Restoration Option and shall be eligible to elect, through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital, to defer between 1% and 50% of the employee's eligible pay (as defined under the 401(k) Plan) for the remainder of the Plan Year. Such election must be made within thirty (30) days of the date the employee is first selected for participation in the Plan and shall be effective as soon as administratively feasible following the receipt of such election by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital or his or her designee.
Special Enrollment for Newly Eligible Participants Who Exceed
402(g)
Limit in Other Plan
3.3. . Notwithstanding Section 3.1, eligible employees and Participants can elect, through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital, to waive participation in the 401(k) Restoration Option for a given Plan Year. Any such waiver shall be made in accordance with the procedures established by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital from time to time and must be received by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital or his or her designee prior to the first day of the Plan Year (or such earlier deadline designated by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital). A waiver of participation made by a Participant for such Plan Year shall remain in effect for subsequent Plan Years unless, prior to such Plan Year, the waiver is revoked by the Participant or the Participant is not selected for participation for that subsequent Plan Year.
Election Out
8. INCENTIVE DEFERRAL ELECTIONS AND COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A OF THE CODE. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2005, Section 4.1.1 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:
4.1.1. . Through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital, a Participant may elect to defer between (and including) 1% and 100% of such Participant's Incentive Award. To be effective for an Incentive Award paid during a Plan Year, the deferral election must be received by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital or his or her designee prior to the first day of the Plan Year in which the Incentive Award is earned. An election made by a Participant for a Plan Year shall remain in effect for subsequent Plan Years unless, prior to such Plan Year, the election is changed or terminated by the Participant or the Participant is not selected for participation for that subsequent Plan Year.
Amount of Deferrals
9. SALARY DEFERRAL ELECTIONS. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2005, Section 4.2.1 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:
4.2.1. . Through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital, a Participant may elect to defer between (and including) 1% and 80% (100% for Plan Years beginning prior to 2007) of such Participant's base salary for a Plan Year. For this purpose, base salary shall include any non-stock periodic incentive pay but shall not include any Incentive Awards. The Senior Vice President, Human Capital may establish prospectively other limits or other pay eligible for deferral. To be effective for a Plan Year, the deferral election must be received by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital or his or her designee prior to the first day of the Plan Year (or such earlier deadline designated by the Vice President, Human Capital). An election made by a Participant for a Plan Year shall remain in effect for subsequent Plan Years unless, prior to such Plan Year, the election is changed or terminated by the Participant or the Participant is not selected for participation for that subsequent Plan Year.
Amount of Deferrals
10. PERFORMANCE AWARD DEFERRAL ELECTIONS AND COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A OF THE CODE. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2005, Section 4.3.1 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:
4.3.1. . Through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital, a Participant may elect to defer between (and including) 1% and 100% of such Participant's Performance Award. To be effective for a Performance Award that becomes payable during a Plan Year, the deferral election must be received by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital or his or her designee prior to the first day of the last Plan Year in the performance period (or any later deadline designated by the Senior Vice President which is at least six (6) months before the end of the performance period). An election made by a Participant for a Plan Year shall remain in effect for subsequent Plan Years unless, prior to such Plan Year, the election is changed or terminated by the Participant or the Participant is not selected for participation for that subsequent Plan Year.
Amount of Deferrals
11. CHANGING INVESTMENT CREDIT FUND ELECTIONS. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2007, Section 5.1 of the Plan Statement shall be amended by adding the following sentence at the end thereof:
Effective January 1, 2007, Participants may change the Measuring Investment designations for their Accounts as of any business date of the Plan Year.
12. COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A-EFFECT OF REEMPLOYMENT. Effective for Participants reemployed on or after January 1, 2005, Section 9.1.4 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:
9.1.4. . If a Participant is reemployed by the Employer or an Affiliate after Termination of Employment and after distribution has commenced pursuant to Section 9.1.1 (or distribution has been scheduled to be made but before actual distribution has been made), further distributions shall not be suspended during the period of reemployment.
Effect of Reemployment
13. SIXTH MONTH DELAY FOR KEY EMPLOYEE. Effective for distributions made on or after January 1, 2005, Sections 9.1 (a) and (b) of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:
The amount of future installments will be determined as soon as administratively feasible following the end of each later Plan Year. The amount of each installment shall be determined by dividing the Account balance as of the Valuation Date as of which the installment is being paid, by the number of remaining installment payments to be made (including the payment being determined). Such installments shall be actually paid as soon as practicable after each such determination (but not later than the last day of the February following such Plan Year).
14. COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A-DEADLINE FOR MAKING DISTRIBUTION ELECTION CHANGES. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or January 1, 2005, the third sentence of Section 9.3.3 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:
To be effective for deferrals and matching credits (if any) for a Plan Year, the new distribution election must be received by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital or his or her designee prior to the first day of the Plan Year (or such earlier deadline designated by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital).
15. COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A-CHANGES IN PRIOR DISTRIBUTION ELECTION. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or January 1, 2005, Section 9.3.4 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:
9.3.4. . Through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital, distribution elections may be changed by the Participant from time to time. Each subsequent distribution election shall be effective as to the specified portion of the Participant's Account. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any new distribution election shall be disregarded as if it had never been filed (and the prior effective distribution election shall be given effect) unless the distribution election:
Re-Election of Form of Distribution
No spouse, former spouse, Beneficiary or other person shall have any right to participate in the Participant's decision to revise distribution elections. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Senior Vice President, Human Capital shall interpret all provisions of this Plan relating to the change of any distribution election in a manner that is consistent with section 409A of the Code and the regulations and other guidance issued thereunder. Accordingly, if the Senior Vice President, Human Capital determines that a requested revision to a distribution election is inconsistent with section 409A of the Code or other applicable tax law, the request shall not be effective.
16. COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A-TERMINATION. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2005, Section 11.1 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:
11.1. . The Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors may unilaterally amend the Plan Statement prospectively, retroactively or both, at any time and for any reason deemed sufficient by it without notice to any person affected by this Plan and the Board of Directors may terminate this Plan both with regard to persons receiving benefits and persons expecting to receive benefits in the future; provided, however, that:
Amendment and Termination
17. CLARIFICATION REGARDING METHOD OF EXECUTING INSTRUMENTS. Effective as of the date this amendment is adopted, Section 12.3 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:
12.3. . Information to be supplied or written notices to be made or consents to be given by UnitedHealth Group, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Comp Committee") or the Senior Vice President, Human Capital pursuant to any provision of the Plan Statement may be signed in the name of UnitedHealth Group, the Comp Committee or the Senior Vice President, Human Capital by any officer who has been authorized to make such certification or to give such notices or consents.
Method of Executing Instruments
18. CLAIM PROCEDURES. Effective for all claims filed on or after January 1, 2007, Section 12.4 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:
12.4. . The claim procedures set forth in this Section 12.4 shall be the exclusive administrative procedure for the disposition of claims for benefits arising under the Plan.
Original Claim
12.4.1. . An individual may, subject to any applicable deadline, file with the Senior Vice President, Human Capital (or, in the case of a Section 16 Officer, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Comp Committee") a written claim for benefits under the Plan in a form and manner prescribed by the Senior Vice President, Human Capital.
Initial Claim
12.4.2. . A notice of an adverse determination shall set forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant:
Notice of Initial Adverse Determination
12.4.3. . Within sixty (60) days after receipt of an initial adverse benefit determination notice, the claimant may file with the Comp Committee a written request for a review of the adverse determination and may, in connection therewith submit written comments, documents, records and other information relating to the claim benefits. Any request for review of the initial adverse determination not filed within sixty (60) days after receipt of the initial adverse determination notice shall be untimely.
Request for Review
12.4.4. . If the claim, upon review, is denied in whole or in part, the Comp Committee shall notify the claimant of the adverse benefit determination within sixty (60) days after receipt of such a request for review.
Claim on Review
12.4.5. . A notice of an adverse determination for a claim on review shall set forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant:
Notice of Adverse Determination for Claim on Review
12.4.6. .
General Rules
19. SAVINGS CLAUSE. Save and except as hereinabove expressly amended, the Plan Statement shall continue in full force and effect.

Exhibit 10.4
WHEREAS, UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INCORPORATED, a Minnesota corporation ("UnitedHealth Group"), has heretofore established and maintains a nonqualified, unfunded, deferred compensation plan (the "Plan") for the benefit of certain members of its Board of Directors; and
WHEREAS, Said Plan is currently embodied in a document adopted on October 30, 2001, and entitled "UNITEDHEALTH GROUP DIRECTORS' COMPENSATION DEFERRAL PLAN (2002 Statement)" and as amended by a First Amendment adopted on March 8, 2004 (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Plan Statement); and
WHEREAS, Pursuant to Sections 10.1 of the Plan Statement, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group (the "Compensation Committee") has the general power to amend the Plan Statement by a written instrument executed by UnitedHealth Group; and
WHEREAS, UnitedHealth Group desires to amend the Plan Statement to provide for the following: (i) to bring the Plan into compliance with the requirements of section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, and (ii) to make other clarifying or administrative changes.
NOW, THEREFORE, The Plan Statement is hereby amended in the following respects:
1. COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A-DEFERRAL ELECTIONS. Effective for deferral elections made for Plan Years beginning on or January 1, 2005, Section 3.1.1 of the Plan Statement is amended to read in full as follows:
3.1.1. . Through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Committee, a Participant may elect to defer between (and including) 1% and 100% of such Participant's Board Compensation for Board services for a Plan Year. The Committee may establish prospectively other percentage limits. To be effective for a Plan Year, the deferral election must be received by the Committee or its designee prior to the first day of the Plan Year (or such earlier deadline designated by the Committee or its designee); provided, however, for a person who is first elected to the Board after the beginning of the Plan Year, the deferral election must be received by the Committee within 30 days after the first day of such eligibility, and, if so received, the deferral election shall be effective as soon as administratively feasible following such receipt. Such deferral election shall be irrevocable and shall remain in effect until changed or rescinded. Prior to the beginning of any subsequent the Plan Year, a Participant may irrevocably elect through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Committee to change an earlier election by providing a new deferral election to the Committee or its designee. The new deferral election shall become effective on the first day of the subsequent Plan Year.
Amount of Deferrals
2. MEASURING INVESTMENTS. Effective as of January 1, 2007, the third sentence of Section 4.1 of the Plan Statement is amended to read in full as follows:
The Measuring Investments as of January 1, 2007 are listed in Schedule I to the Plan Statement.
3. COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A OF THE CODE. Effective for all distributions made on or after January 1, 2005, Section 8.1 of the Plan Statement shall be amended by adding thereto the following new Section 8.1.3:
8.1.3. . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan Statement, in the event that a Participant in the Plan is determined to be a "key employee" (as that term is defined under section 409A of the Code), any distribution to the Participant on account of the Participant's separation from service shall be delayed as necessary to comply with the requirements of section 409A of the Code.
Distribution to Key Employees
4. COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A-DEADLINE FOR MAKING DISTRIBUTION ELECTION. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or January 1, 2005, the third sentence of Section 8.4.3 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:
To be effective for deferrals for a Plan Year, the new distribution election must be received by the Committee or its designee prior to the first day of the Plan Year (or such earlier deadline designated by the Committee or its designee).
5. COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A-CHANGES IN PRIOR DISTRIBUTION ELECTION. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or January 1, 2005, Section 8.4.
4(c)
of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:
No spouse, former spouse, Beneficiary or other person shall have any right to participate in the Participant's decision to revise distribution elections. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee shall interpret all provisions of this Plan relating to the change of any distribution election with respect to the Participant's Post-2003 Account in a manner that is consistent with section 409A of the Code and the regulations and other guidance issued thereunder. Accordingly, if the Committee determines that a requested revision to a distribution election is inconsistent with section 409A of the Code or other applicable tax law, the request shall not be effective.
6. COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A-TERMINATION. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2005, Section 10.1 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:
10.1. . The Committee may unilaterally amend the Plan Statement prospectively, retroactively or both, at any time and for any reason deemed sufficient by it without notice to any person affected by this Plan, and the Board of Directors may terminate this Plan both with regard to persons receiving benefits and persons expecting to receive benefits in the future; provided, however, that:
Amendment and Termination
7. SCHEDULE I. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2007, Schedule I to the Plan Statement is amended by substituting therefore the Schedule I attached to this amendment.
8. SAVINGS CLAUSE. Save and except as hereinabove expressly amended, the Plan Statement shall continue in full force and effect.
A. . The following are the Measuring Investments on or after January 1, 2007:
Measuring Investments as of January 1, 2007
B. . The following are the Measuring Investments on or after August 1, 2002 and prior to January 1, 2007:
Measuring Investments on or after August 1, 2002 and Prior to January 1, 2007
C. . The following are the Measuring Investments prior to August 1, 2002:
Measuring Investments prior to August 1, 2002
D. . If a Participant does not designate which Measuring Investments shall be used to determine the value of the Participant's Account, the value of the Participant's Account will be determined using the following Measuring Investments:
Default Rules


