FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20060407072022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
Part D Accounting
The Company has concluded discussions initiated by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to interim period accounting and reporting under the Company's contract with the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services ("CMS") to provide Medicare Part D insurance benefits beginning January 1, 2006. The accounting and reporting conclusions are consistent with the guidance we have previously described as "expected GAAP" and are summarized as follows:
 
This accounting and reporting issue pertains to interim reporting periods only. Annual results are not affected by this accounting application as the Management and GAAP approaches are the same on a full year reporting basis.
The Company believes Management Reporting is appropriate as an alternative presentation because the Company views each interim period as being an integral part of the annual period pursuant to its annual contract with CMS. As such, the Company evaluates the Medicare Part D interim financial results in relation to expected full year benefit utilization results under the annual Medicare Part D contract. Accordingly, under "Management Reporting," a portion of pharmacy benefit costs expected to be incurred in the first and second quarters of 2006 will be deferred based on actuarial estimates that consider expected benefit utilization results for the full annual contract period. This approach matches benefit costs with associated premium revenues during interim periods of the annual Medicare Part D contract.
As previously stated, the Company expects strong revenue growth, outstanding cash generation and a very positive earnings performance in 2006. The outcome of the SEC discussions regarding Part D interim period reporting has no impact on our outlook for first quarter results. The Company expects to announce first quarter results on April 18, 2006. Results relating to the Company's Medicare Part D contract will be included on both a GAAP basis and a Management Reporting basis.
Stock Option Review
The Company's proxy statement filed on April 7, 2006 includes the following disclosure under the heading "Other Matters":
In light of recent focus by the Securities and Exchange Commission and others on stock option grant practices by publicly traded companies, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer recommended that the Board of Directors appoint a Committee comprised of independent directors to retain and work with outside legal counsel to review the Company's current and historic stock option grant practices. The Board of Directors accepted this recommendation and formed a Committee of independent directors. The Committee has engaged independent counsel to assist in its review. In response to a call from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company has advised the staff of the appointment of the Committee and counsel.
On March 29, 2006, a derivative action relating to the issues being reviewed by the Committee was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota naming as defendants all directors other than Donna Shalala, as well as the Company as a nominal defendant.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
UnitedHealth Group and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA), including statements in this report, in presentations, press releases, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


