FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20061019064758.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 19, 2006, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release discussing third quarter 2006 results. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference. The press release contains forward-looking statements regarding the Company.
To supplement our consolidated financial results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the press release also discloses certain non-GAAP financial measures which management believes provides useful information to investors. The reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included below.
The "Part D Normalized" results have been presented to enhance comparability with 2005 quarterly results. The "Part D Normalized" results assume that full year Medicare Part D benefit costs are recognized based on actuarially projected utilization over the contract year. Accordingly, "Part D Normalized" results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006 include a pro rata share of management's estimate of full year 2006 Medicare Part D benefit costs relating to beneficiaries as of September 30, 2006. "Part D Normalized" results are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted net earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
Certain account balances and financial measures have been presented in this earnings release excluding our AARP business. Management believes these disclosures are meaningful since underwriting gains or losses related to the AARP business are recorded as an increase or decrease to a rate stabilization fund (RSF) and the effects of changes in balance sheet amounts associated with the AARP program accrue to the overall benefit of the AARP policyholders through the RSF balance. Although the Company is at risk for underwriting losses to the extent cumulative net losses exceed the balance in the RSF, the Company has not been required to fund any underwriting deficits to date and management believes the RSF balance is sufficient to cover potential future underwriting or other risks associated with the contract.
 
Adjusted Cash Flows from Operating Activities is presented to facilitate the comparison of cash flows from operating activities for periods in which the Company does not receive its monthly premium payments from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) in the applicable quarter. CMS generally pays their monthly premium on the first calendar day of the applicable month. If the first calendar day of the month falls on a weekend or a holiday, CMS has typically paid the Company on the last business day of the preceding calendar month. As such, GAAP operating cash flows may vary depending upon which payments are received by the Company from CMS during a particular period. Adjusted Cash Flows from Operating Activities presents operating cash flows assuming that each monthly CMS premium payment was received on the first calendar day of the applicable month.
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
UnitedHealth Group and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA), including statements in this report, in presentations, press releases (including the earnings release attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and the earnings conference call described in such earnings release), filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the consequences of the findings announced on October 15, 2006 of the investigation by an Independent Committee of directors of our stock option practices (including assessing what accounting adjustments and disclosures may be required to our financial results and determining whether we need to restate previously filed financial statements, as to which no decision has been made), related governmental reviews by the SEC, IRS, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and Minnesota Attorney General, and related shareholder derivative actions, shareholder demands and purported securities class actions, a purported notice of default with respect to certain of the Company's debt securities based upon our not filing our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, the management and director changes and a likely delay in filing our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 announced on October 15, 2006, and the potential impact of each of these matters on our business, credit ratings and debt; increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption of or costs of medical services; heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers; events that may negatively affect our contract with AARP; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; funding risks with respect to revenues received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, legislative activity and government regulation and review of our industry; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service providers;
regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care provider disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; and anticipated benefits of acquiring PacifiCare that may not be realized.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 19, 2006
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
 
 
MINNEAPOLIS (October 19, 2006)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) achieved record results in the third quarter of 2006. Diversified business growth was well-matched with effective cost management, advances in the integration of acquisitions and accelerating gains in profitability from seasonally strong product offerings in the third quarter, leading to a further advance in the Company's full-year earnings outlook. UnitedHealth Group now expects full-year earnings per share growth of at least 25 percent in 2006.
 
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stephen J. Hemsley, president and chief operating officer, stated, "The broad and evolving health care markets are increasingly engaging the capabilities which we have cultivated, even as our business execution steadily continues to improve. We anticipate continued strong growth into 2007, with total revenues in the area of $79 billion and 2007 earnings per share growth of 15 percent above the range of $2.95 to $2.97 per share we now project for 2006."
Comment on Board Actions
Richard Burke, chairman of the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group, said, "The actions we announced last week establish a blueprint for the Company's governance and internal controls. We deeply regret the deficiencies relative to our historical stock option programs cited in the Independent Committee's report and apologize to all our stakeholders for them. The actions we adopted are designed to help ensure that UnitedHealth Group meets the highest possible standards of corporate governance, in compensation matters and other areas.
"The Board unanimously appointed Steve Hemsley as CEO after fully considering his strong performance at the Company and all facts pertaining to the Independent Committee's review. Each of the directors believes that our decision and Steve's leadership are in the best interests of UnitedHealth Group, our employees, customers and shareholders. Steve will be a strong and capable leader for UnitedHealth Group's future."
Business Description  Health Care Services
The Health Care Services segment consists of the UnitedHealthcare, AmeriChoice and Ovations business units. UnitedHealthcare coordinates network-based health and well-being services on behalf of multistate mid-sized and local employers and for consumers. AmeriChoice facilitates and manages health care services for state-sponsored Medicaid programs and their beneficiaries. Ovations delivers health and well-being services to Americans over the age of 50.
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services
Health Care Services revenues, earnings from operations and operating margins were significantly affected on a year-over-year basis by the acquisition of PacifiCare and the commencement of Medicare Part D.
 
 
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description
Uniprise delivers network-based health and well-being services, business-to-business transaction processing services, consumer connectivity, and technology support services to large employers and health plans, and provides health-related consumer and financial transaction products and services.
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
Key Developments
 
 
 
 
Business Description
Specialized Care Services offers a comprehensive array of specialized benefits, networks, services and resources to help consumers improve their health and well-being.
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
Key Developments
 
 
 
 
Business Description
Ingenix is a leader in the field of health care data, analysis and application, serving pharmaceutical companies, health insurers and other payers, physicians and other health care providers, large employers and governments.
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
Key Developments
 
 
 
 
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group () is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 70 million individuals nationwide.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the potential consequences of the findings announced on October 15, 2006 of the investigation by an Independent Committee of directors of our stock option programs (including assessing what accounting adjustments and disclosures may be required to our financial results and determining whether we need to restate previously filed financial statements, as to which no decision has been made) related governmental reviews by the SEC, IRS, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and Minnesota Attorney General, and related shareholder derivative actions, shareholder demands and purported securities class actions, a purported notice of default with respect to certain of the Company's debt securities based upon our not filing our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, the management and director changes and a likely delay in filing our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 announced on October 15, 2006, and the potential impact of each of these matters on our business, credit ratings and debt; increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption of or costs of medical services; heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers; events that may negatively affect our contract with AARP; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; funding risks with respect to revenues received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, legislative activity and government regulation and review of our industry; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service providers; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care provider disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded
for businesses that we acquire; potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; and anticipated benefits of acquiring PacifiCare that may not be realized.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Earnings Conference Call
As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the Company's results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 8:45 a.m. Eastern time today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Investor Information page of the Company's Web site (www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The webcast replay of the call will be available on the same site for approximately one week following the live call. The conference call replay can also be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID #6428730. This earnings release and the Form 8-K dated October 19, 2006, which may also be accessed in the Investor Information section of the Company's Web site at , include a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
http://www.unitedhealthgroup.com/invest/finsec.htm
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The table below summarizes certain non-GAAP balance sheet data excluding AARP related amounts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


