FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20060719071815.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 19, 2006, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release discussing second quarter 2006 results. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 and incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference. The press release contains forward-looking statements regarding the Company.
To supplement our consolidated financial results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the press release also discloses certain non-GAAP financial measures which management believes provides useful information to investors. The reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included below.
The "Part D Normalized" results have been presented to enhance comparability with 2005 quarterly results. The "Part D Normalized" results assume that full year Medicare Part D benefit costs are recognized based on actuarially projected utilization over the contract year. Accordingly, "Part D Normalized" results for the first half of 2006 include a pro rata share of management's estimate of full year 2006 Medicare Part D benefit costs relating to beneficiaries as of June 30, 2006. "Part D Normalized" results are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted net earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Certain account balances and financial measures have been presented in this earnings release excluding our AARP business. Management believes these disclosures are meaningful since underwriting gains or losses related to the AARP business are recorded as an increase or decrease to a rate stabilization fund (RSF) and the effects of changes in balance sheet amounts associated with the AARP program accrue to the overall benefit of the AARP policyholders through the RSF balance. Although the
Company is at risk for underwriting losses to the extent cumulative net losses exceed the balance in the RSF, the Company has not been required to fund any underwriting deficits to date and management believes the RSF balance is sufficient to cover potential future underwriting or other risks associated with the contract.
 
Adjusted Cash Flows from Operating Activities is presented to facilitate the comparison of cash flows from operating activities for periods in which the Company does not receive its monthly premium payments from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) in the applicable quarter. CMS generally pays their monthly premium on the first calendar day of the applicable month. If the first calendar day of the month falls on a weekend or a holiday, CMS has typically paid the Company on the last business day of the preceding calendar month. As such, GAAP operating cash flows may vary depending upon which payments are received by the Company from CMS during a particular period. Adjusted Cash Flows from Operating Activities presents operating cash flows assuming that each monthly CMS premium payment was received on the first calendar day of the applicable month.
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
UnitedHealth Group and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA), including statements in this report, in presentations, press releases (including the earnings release attached as Exhibit 99 to this report and the earnings conference call described in such earnings release), filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 19, 2006
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
 
Adjusted Operating Cash Flows of $1.54 Billion Increased 24%
 
MINNEAPOLIS (July 19, 2006)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) achieved record results in the second quarter of 2006, reported Chairman and CEO William W. McGuire, M.D. "Our services now extend to 70 million people, as we have significantly expanded our share in high-growth health care markets such as senior health care, consumer-driven health products, and technology and data services, as well as deepened our position in employer benefit services in key geographic markets," stated Dr. McGuire. "Our operating momentum now supports earnings per share growth in the range of 23 percent to 25 percent in 2006, a further advance over our outlook of three months ago."
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights
UnitedHealth Group first and second quarter 2006 revenues, earnings from operations and operating margins were significantly affected by the acquisition of PacifiCare Health Systems (PacifiCare) and the commencement of Medicare Part D. In the UnitedHealth Group and segment highlights, only sequential quarterly comparisons and commentary are provided for certain metrics, as year-over-year performance comparability is affected by the business mix changes driven by those two important developments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Closing Comment
"We have a positive outlook for further earnings growth this year. Our businesses are in an excellent position to sustain growth and performance, driven by the overall value that their services, technologies and products offer to customers in the end-markets they serve," concluded Dr. McGuire. "Our quarterly results should benefit substantively in the second half of 2006 from the natural seasonality embedded in a number of our businesses, including Medicare Part D. We therefore expect to see accelerating earnings per share growth in the second half of this year. At the same time, we continue to build a foundation for future growth in 2007 and beyond, and expect baseline earnings per share to climb another 15 percent in 2007 above our increased 2006 outlook of $2.91 to $2.95 per share."
Business Description  Health Care Services
The Health Care Services segment consists of the UnitedHealthcare, AmeriChoice and Ovations business units. UnitedHealthcare coordinates network-based health and well-being services on behalf of multistate mid-sized and local employers and for consumers. AmeriChoice facilitates and manages health care services for state-sponsored Medicaid programs and their beneficiaries. Ovations delivers health and well-being services to Americans over the age of 50.
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services
Health Care Services revenues, earnings from operations and operating margins were significantly affected on a year-over-year basis by the acquisition of PacifiCare and the commencement of Medicare Part D.
 
 
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description
Uniprise delivers network-based health and well-being services, business-to-business transaction processing services, consumer connectivity, and technology support services to large employers and health plans, and provides health-related consumer and financial transaction products and services.
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
Key Developments
 
 
 
 
Business Description
Specialized Care Services offers a comprehensive array of specialized benefits, networks, services and resources to help consumers improve their health and well-being.
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
Key Developments
 
 
 
 
Business Description
Ingenix is a leader in the field of health care data, analysis and application, serving pharmaceutical companies, health insurers and other payers, physicians and other health care providers, large employers and governments.
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
Key Developments
 
 
 
 
 
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group () is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 70 million individuals nationwide.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption of or costs of medical services; heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers; events that may negatively affect our contract with AARP; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; funding risks with respect to revenue received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, legislative activity and government regulation and review of our industry; potential consequences surrounding findings of our ongoing internal investigation, investigation by a committee of our independent directors and informal SEC inquiry into our stock option granting practices, as well as a subpoena from the office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York requesting documents relating to stock option grants since 1999 and a request from the Internal Revenue Service for documents relating to the compensation of certain executive officers; uncertainty of results of pending civil litigation relating to our stock option granting practices; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service providers; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care provider disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; and anticipated benefits of acquiring PacifiCare that may not be realized. This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on
Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Earnings Conference Call
As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the Company's results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 8:45 a.m. Eastern time today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Investor Information page of the Company's Web site (www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The webcast replay of the call will be available on the same site for one week following the live call. The conference call replay can also be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID #1716933. This earnings release and the Form 8-K dated July 19, 2006, which may also be accessed in the Investor Information section of the Company's Web site at , include a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
http://www.unitedhealthgroup.com/invest/finsec.htm
 
 
 
 
The table below summarizes certain non-GAAP balance sheet data excluding AARP related amounts:
 
 
 
 
REVENUES
 
EARNINGS FROM OPERATIONS
 
 
 
 
 
The "Part D Normalized" results have been presented to enhance comparability with 2005 quarterly results. The "Part D Normalized" results assume that full year Medicare Part D benefit costs are recognized based on actuarially projected utilization over the contract year. Accordingly, "Part D Normalized" results for the first half of 2006 include a pro rata share of management's estimate of full year 2006 Medicare Part D benefit costs relating to beneficiaries as of June 30, 2006. "Part D Normalized" results are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted net earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


