FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20061219064235.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On December 19, 2006, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing certain information about the Company (including its 2006 and 2007 outlook and an update on its activities pertaining to stock option matters) to be discussed at its annual investor conference in New York City to be held on Tuesday, December 19, 2006, beginning at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time (the "Investor Conference").
A copy of the press release, a copy of the presentations to be used by Company management at the Investor Conference, and a copy of the materials to be distributed to the attendees of the Investor Conference are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1, Exhibit 99.2 and Exhibit 99.3, each of which is incorporated in this Item 7.01 by reference.
 
The following cautionary statements update any previous cautionary statements filed by the Company with the SEC.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
The statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook contained in this report (including the exhibits filed with this report) include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). When used in this report and in future filings by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words or phrases "believes," "anticipates," "expects," "plans," "seeks," "intends," "will likely result," "estimates," "projects" or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are intended to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of the PSLRA. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
The following discussion contains certain cautionary statements regarding our business that investors and others should consider. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to address or update forward-looking statements in future filings or communications regarding our business or operating results, and do not undertake to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. In addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results. Any or all forward-looking statements in this report and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors discussed below will be important in determining future results. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Actual future results may vary materially from expectations expressed in this or any of our prior communications.
Cautionary Statements Relating to Our Historical Stock Option Practices and Related Matters
As we announced on November 7, 2006, our historical financial information from 1994 to 2006 should no longer be relied upon and our proposed adjustments to the historical financial information disclosed in this report are not final and are subject to change.
In early 2006, our Board of Directors initiated an independent review of the Company's stock option practices from 1994 to the present. The independent review was conducted by a committee comprised of independent directors (the "Independent Committee") with the assistance of independent counsel, Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP ("WilmerHale"), and independent accounting advisors. On October 15, 2006, we announced that the Independent Committee and WilmerHale had completed a review of the Company's stock option practices and reported the findings to the non-management directors of the Company. The WilmerHale report concluded, among other things, that for most of the grants reviewed, incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes. On November 7, 2006, we announced that management of the Company had concluded, and the Audit Committee had approved the conclusion, that due solely to our historical stock option practices, the Company's financial statements for the years ended 1994 to 2005, the interim periods contained therein, the quarter ended March 31, 2006 and all earnings and press releases, including for the quarters ended June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006 and similar communications issued by the Company for such periods, and the related reports of the Company's independent registered public accounting firm should no longer be relied upon.
On December 19, 2006, we announced that we had substantially completed our analysis of the necessary accounting adjustments for non-cash stock-based compensation expense based on the WilmerHale report and had requested a consultation on certain interpretive issues with the SEC's Office of the Chief Accountant. We also announced at that time our current estimate of the range of cumulative non-cash stock-based compensation charges for 1994 through 2005 under APB 25, our historical method of accounting, and under FAS 123R, which we adopted effective January 1, 2006. The press release containing these announcements has been furnished under Item 7.01 of this report. These estimates have not been audited by our independent registered public accounting firm and do not take into account any impact on prior tax deductions related to previously exercised stock options under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. Accordingly, these estimates are subject to change, possibly materially, based on the outcome of the consultation process with the Office of the Chief Accountant, the assessment of the tax impact referred to above and completion of the restatement of our historical financial statements, which will be audited by our independent registered public accounting firm.
The 2006 and 2007 outlook disclosed in this report are estimates only and are subject to change based upon the finalization of the Company's restatement of its historical financial statements.
The 2006 and 2007 outlook disclosed in this report, including estimates of net income and other financial information, reflect management's current estimates of the range of additional non-cash charges for stock-based compensation expense for the applicable period arising from the review of the Company's historical stock option practices conducted by the Independent Committee. These estimates are not yet final and are subject to change based upon the finalization of the Company's restatement of its historical financial statements as discussed in the risk factor above. It should also be noted that this outlook excludes any adjustment for any non-operating cash charges which may be required in connection with the resolution of stock option-related tax matters, litigation, and regulatory matters, the amount and timing of which are uncertain but which are likely to be material.
Until we are able to become current with our filings with the SEC, we may face several adverse consequences.
As described above, as a result of our historical stock option practices, management of the Company concluded, and the Audit Committee approved the conclusion, that due solely to the historical stock option practices, the Company's historical financial information from 1994 to 2006 should no longer be relied upon. We have delayed filing our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006 and, although we are working as quickly as possible to complete our restatement and return to current filing status, we cannot provide assurance as to when this process will be completed. Because we are not current with our filings with the SEC, investors in our securities do not have the information required by SEC rules regarding our business and financial condition with which to make decisions regarding investment in our securities. In addition, until we are current with our SEC filings, the SEC will not declare a registration statement covering a public offering of securities effective under the Securities Act of 1933, and we will not be able to make offerings pursuant to existing registration statements or pursuant to certain "private placement" rules of the SEC under Regulation D to any purchasers not qualifying as "accredited investors." We also will not be eligible to use a "short form" registration statement on Form S-3 to make equity or debt offerings for a period of 12 months after the time we become current in our filings. These restrictions could adversely affect our ability to raise capital, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as discussed in the risk factor below, if we are not able to make these filings by February 22, 2007, our credit rating of our commercial paper program and our ability to continue issuing commercial paper would likely be adversely affected and our ability to obtain immediate and continued access to additional liquidity would likely be impaired, unless we received waivers or amendments from our lenders. We cannot assure you that these amendments or waivers will be received. See "Credit Facility Covenants" below for a description of the risks relating to our commercial paper program and rating and our access to additional liquidity.
Matters relating to or arising out of our historical stock option practices, including regulatory inquiries and document requests, litigation matters, downgrades in our credit ratings, and potential credit facility compliance issues could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
Regulatory Inquiries
The SEC is conducting an informal inquiry into the Company's historical stock option practices. In May 2006, the Company received a request from the Internal Revenue Service seeking documents relating to stock option grants and other compensation for the persons
who from 2003 to the present were named executive officers in the Company's annual proxy statements. We also received in May 2006 a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York requesting documents from 1999 to the present relating to the Company's historical stock option practices. In June 2006, the Company received a Civil Investigative Demand from the Minnesota Attorney General requesting documents from January 1, 1997 to the present concerning the Company's executive compensation and historical stock option practices. In connection with the departure of our former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, William W. McGuire, M.D., we received a request from the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance in October 2006 to produce certain documents relating to Dr. McGuire's compensation. We cannot provide assurance that the Company will not be subject to adverse publicity, regulatory fines or penalties, other contingent liabilities or adverse customer reactions in connection with these matters.
Litigation Matters
We and certain of our current and former directors and officers are defendants in a consolidated federal securities class action and state and federal shareholder derivative actions relating to our historical stock option practices. We also have received several shareholder demands relating to our historical stock option practices. Our Board of Directors has designated an unaffiliated special litigation committee (the "Special Litigation Committee") to investigate the claims raised in the derivative actions and shareholder demands, and determine whether the claims should be pursued.
In addition, following our not filing our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, we received a purported notice of default from persons claiming to hold certain of our debt securities alleging a violation of our indenture governing our debt securities. Subsequently, we filed an action in the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota, seeking a declaratory judgment that the Company is not in default under the terms of the indenture. The Company subsequently received a purported notice of acceleration from the holders who previously sent the notice of default that purports to declare an acceleration of the Company's 5.80% Subordinated Notes due March 15, 2036, of which an aggregate of $850 million principal amount is outstanding.
In connection with the departure of Dr. McGuire, we received an order from the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota in November 2006 granting a joint motion for temporary injunctive relief made by plaintiffs and Dr. McGuire. According to the order, Dr. McGuire is preliminarily enjoined from exercising any Company stock options without Court approval and the Company and Dr. McGuire are preliminarily enjoined from taking any further action pursuant to or having any effect on Dr. McGuire's employment agreement, as amended, and other related agreements, and while the preliminary injunction is in effect, no payments will be made to Dr. McGuire under these agreements, including any payments under Dr. McGuire's Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan.
These actions are in preliminary stages and we cannot provide assurance that their ultimate outcome will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we may be subject to additional litigation or other proceedings or
actions arising out of the Independent Committee's review, the Special Litigation Committee's review and the related restatement of our historical financial statements. Litigation and any potential regulatory proceeding or action may be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our business. The adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit or any potential regulatory proceeding or action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Credit Ratings
As a result of their concerns related to our historical stock option practices, Moody's downgraded our A2 senior debt rating to A3 in October 2006 and AMBest downgraded our financial strength ratings from A+ to A in November 2006. Standard and Poors and FitchRatings confirmed their existing ratings and their negative outlook (Standard and Poors) and watch (FitchRatings) on the Company's ratings. If our business results deteriorate significantly, or if there is an event, outcome or action as a result of the regulatory inquiries and document requests or the pending civil litigation, which is materially adverse to the Company, our credit ratings may be further downgraded. A significant downgrade in ratings may increase the cost of borrowing for the Company or limit the Company's access to capital.
Credit Facility Covenants
Although we have no amounts outstanding under our existing $1.3 billion credit facility, it supports our commercial paper program. If that credit facility and our other backup financial arrangements were not available for use to support the commercial paper program, the credit rating of the program would likely be downgraded, which would likely impair the Company's ability to continue issuing commercial paper. As of November 30, 2006, we had $495 million of commercial paper outstanding. We entered into amendments to this credit facility to extend the deadline to February 22, 2007 to deliver our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006 to our lenders. We cannot assure that we will be able to file these Form 10-Qs by February 22, 2007, or if we are not able to make these filings by February 22, 2007, that we will be able to obtain additional amendments or waivers. Additionally, we believe our proposed restatement will result in a violation of one or more of the covenants under the $1.3 billion credit facility. We are in discussion with our lenders regarding an additional amendment/waiver to waive the potential default. We cannot provide assurance, however, that such amendment/waiver will be obtained. If we are not able to obtain an amendment/waiver under the $1.3 billion credit facility when needed and if our other backup financial arrangements are not available to support the commercial paper program, our credit rating of the program and our ability to continue issuing commercial paper would likely be impaired.
In October 2006, we entered into a new $7.5 billion credit facility. The facility is intended to insure the Company's immediate and continued access to additional liquidity. The facility also is available for working capital purposes as well as to pay or repay any outstanding borrowings of the Company. Under this facility, we also have until February 22, 2007 to file our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006. We cannot assure you that we will be able to file these Form 10-Qs by February 22, 2007, and if we are not able to make this filing within that time period, that we will be able to obtain an amendment or waiver. If we are not able to obtain an amendment/waiver under the $7.5 billion credit facility when needed, the Company's ability to obtain immediate and continued access to additional liquidity would likely be impaired.
We may be unable to completely and successfully remediate the material weakness which has been identified as of December 31, 2005 in connection with our stock option practices.
As described in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 8, 2006, management reevaluated the Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 (the "2005 Management Internal Control Report"). The Company has determined that it had a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting relating to stock option plan administration and accounting for and disclosure of stock option grants as of December 31, 2005. The existence of a material weakness as of December 31, 2005 would preclude management from concluding that the Company's internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005. The Company intends to amend its 2005 Management Internal Control Report and expects to receive an adverse opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 from Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Company's independent registered public accounting firm. As disclosed in the Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 8, 2006, the Company has substantially remediated this material weakness by taking significant actions in 2006 to strengthen the Company's controls relating to stock option plan administration and accounting for and disclosure of stock option grants. However, no assurance can be given that we will be able to completely and successfully remediate this material weakness. If we are unable to completely and successfully remediate this material weakness, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Cautionary Statements Relating to Our Business
We must effectively manage our health care costs.
Under our risk-based product arrangements, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. Premium revenues from risk-based products (excluding AARP) have typically comprised approximately 80% to 85% of our total consolidated revenues. We generally use approximately 80% to 85% of our premium revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to these customers. The profitability of our risk-based products depends in large part on our ability to predict, price for, and effectively manage health care costs. Total health care costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered and the cost of each service. Our premium revenue is typically fixed in price for a 12-month period and is generally priced one to four months before the contract commences. We base the premiums we charge on our estimate of future health care costs over the fixed premium period; however, inflation, regulations and other factors may cause actual costs to exceed what was estimated and reflected in premiums. These factors may include increased use of services, increased cost of individual services, catastrophes, epidemics, the introduction of new or costly treatments and technology, new mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, insured population characteristics and seasonal changes in the level of health care use. As a measure of the impact of medical cost on our financial results, relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs as a percentage of premium revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. For example, if medical costs increased by 1% without a proportional change in related revenues
for UnitedHealthcare's commercial insured products, our annual net earnings for 2005 would have been reduced by approximately $130 million. In addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs that have been incurred for which claims are still outstanding. If these estimates prove too high or too low, the effect of the change in estimate will be included in future results. That change can be either positive or negative to our results.
We face competition in many of our markets and customers have flexibility in moving between competitors.
Our businesses compete throughout the United States and face competition in all of the geographic markets in which they operate. For our Uniprise and Health Care Services segments, competitors include Aetna Inc., Cigna Corporation, Coventry Health Care, Inc., Humana Inc., and WellPoint, Inc., numerous for-profit and not-for-profit organizations operating under licenses from the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association and enterprises that serve more limited geographic areas. Our Specialized Care Services and Ingenix segments also compete with a number of businesses. The addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily, and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. In particular markets, competitors may have capabilities or resources that give them a competitive advantage. Greater market share, established reputation, superior supplier or provider arrangements, existing business relationships, and other factors all can provide a competitive advantage to our businesses or to their competitors. In addition, significant merger and acquisition activity has occurred in the industries in which we operate, both as to our competitors and suppliers in these industries. Consolidation may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase customers, to improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or to maintain or advance profitability.
Our relationship with AARP is important.
Under our 10-year contract with AARP, which commenced in 1998, we provide Medicare supplement and hospital indemnity health insurance and other products to AARP members. As of June 30, 2006, our portion of AARP's insurance program represented approximately $4.9 billion in annual net premium revenue from approximately 3.8 million AARP members. The AARP contract may be terminated by us or AARP at the end of the initial term and may also be terminated early under certain circumstances, including a material breach by either party, insolvency of either party, a material adverse change in the financial condition of either party, and by mutual agreement. The success of our AARP arrangement depends, in part, on our ability to service AARP and its members, develop additional products and services, price the products and services competitively, and respond effectively to federal and state regulatory changes.
Some of the favorable and unfavorable effects of changes in Medicare remain uncertain.
The changes in Medicare as a result of the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA) are complex and wide-ranging and continue to affect our businesses. We have taken advantage of new opportunities to partner with the federal government created by the MMA, including Medicare Part D prescription drug coverage, Medicare Advantage Regional PPOs, and Special Needs Plans for chronically ill Medicare beneficiaries. We have invested considerable resources in creating new Medicare product offerings for these initiatives and in analyzing
how to best address uncertainties and risks associated with these new programs and other changes arising from the MMA. In particular, the Medicare Part D program presents challenges because of the size and scope of the new program. Our ability to successfully participate in the Medicare Part D program depends in part on coordination of information and information systems between us, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and state governments. We have been working with CMS to correct systems issues that they have experienced with respect to certain low income people eligible to participate in Medicare Part D. The inability to receive correct information due to systems issues by the federal government, the applicable state government or us could adversely affect our business. Additionally, our participation in the Medicare Part D program is based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, pharmaceutical costs and other factors. In the event any of these assumptions are materially incorrect, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the Medicare Part D program or otherwise, our results could be materially affected. Any positive or negative results of the Medicare Part D program are likely to have a significant impact on us as a result of the size of our enrollment in our Medicare Part D program.
We are subject to funding risks with respect to revenue received from participation in Medicare and Medicaid programs.
We participate as a payer in Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, and Medicaid programs and receive revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs to provide benefits under these programs. Revenues for these programs are dependent upon annual funding from the federal government or applicable state governments. Funding for these programs is dependent upon many factors outside of our control including general economic conditions at the federal or applicable state level and general political issues and priorities. An unexpected reduction in government funding for these programs may adversely affect our revenues and financial results.
Our business is subject to routine government scrutiny, and we must respond quickly and appropriately to frequent changes in government regulations.
Our business is regulated at the federal, state, local and international levels. The laws and rules governing our business and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. Broad latitude is given to the agencies administering those regulations. Existing or future laws and rules could force us to change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, and increase our liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. We must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products, to increase prices for certain regulated products and to complete certain acquisitions and dispositions. Delays in obtaining approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain these approvals could reduce our revenue or increase our costs.
We participate in federal, state and local government health care coverage programs. These programs generally are subject to frequent change, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, or increase our administrative or health care costs under such programs. Such changes have adversely affected our financial results and willingness to participate in such programs in the past, and may do so in the future.
State legislatures and Congress continue to focus on health care issues. Legislative and regulatory proposals at state and federal levels may affect certain aspects of our business, including contracting with physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals; physician reimbursement methods and payment rates; coverage determinations; claim payments and processing; drug utilization and patient safety efforts; use and maintenance of individually identifiable health information; medical malpractice litigation; and government-sponsored programs. We cannot predict if any of these initiatives will ultimately become binding law or regulation, or, if enacted, what their terms will be, but their enactment could increase our costs, expose us to expanded liability, require us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or put us at risk for loss of business.
We typically are involved in various governmental investigations, audits and reviews. These include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by CMS, state insurance and health and welfare departments and state attorneys general, the Office of the Inspector General, the Office of Personnel Management, the Office of Civil Rights, the Department of Justice and U.S. Attorneys. Such government actions can result in assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs. In addition, public perception or publicity surrounding routine governmental investigations may adversely affect our stock price, damage our reputation in various markets or make it more difficult for us to sell products and services.
Relationships with physicians, hospitals and other health care providers are important to our business.
We contract with physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and other health care providers for competitive prices. Our results of operations and prospects are substantially dependent on our continued ability to maintain these competitive prices. A number of organizations are advocating for legislation that would exempt certain of these physicians and health care professionals from federal and state antitrust laws. In any particular market, these physicians and health care professionals could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher health care costs, less desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multispecialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part.
In addition, we have capitation arrangements with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. Under the typical arrangement, the provider receives a fixed percentage of premium to cover all the medical costs provided to the capitated member. Under some capitated arrangements, the provider may also receive additional compensation from risk sharing and other incentive arrangements. Capitation arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk related to the adequacy of the financial and medical care resources of the provider. To the extent that a capitated provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the capitation arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims that are the responsibility of the capitated provider and for which we have already paid the provider under the capitation arrangement.
The nature of our business exposes us to litigation risks.
Periodically, we become a party to the types of legal actions that can affect any business, such as employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims, shareholder suits, and intellectual property-related litigation. In addition, because of the nature of our business, we are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to the design and management of our service offerings. These matters include, among others, claims related to health care benefits coverage, medical malpractice actions, contract disputes and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices. In 1999, a number of class action lawsuits were filed against UnitedHealthcare and PacifiCare and virtually all major entities in the health benefits business, although all claims against PacifiCare have been dismissed. The suits are purported class actions on behalf of physicians for alleged breaches of federal statutes, including ERISA and RICO. In March 2000, the American Medical Association filed a lawsuit against us in connection with the calculation of reasonable and customary reimbursement rates for non-network providers. Although the expenses we have incurred to date in defending the 1999 class action lawsuits and the American Medical Association lawsuit have not been material to our business, we will continue to incur expenses in the defense of these lawsuits and other matters, even if they are without merit.
The Company is largely self-insured with regard to litigation risks; however, we maintain excess liability insurance with outside insurance carriers to minimize risks associated with catastrophic claims. Although we believe that we are adequately insured for claims in excess of our self-insurance, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages, are not covered by insurance. We record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from self-insured matters. Although we believe the liabilities established for these risks are adequate, it is possible that the level of actual losses may exceed the liabilities recorded.
Our businesses providing pharmacy benefit management (PBM) services face regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry that may differ from the risks of providing managed care and health insurance products.
In connection with the PacifiCare merger, we acquired a pharmacy benefits management business, Prescription Solutions. We also provide pharmacy benefits management services through UnitedHealth Pharmaceutical Solutions. Prescription Solutions and UnitedHealth Pharmaceutical Solutions are subject to federal and state anti-remuneration and other laws that govern their relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, customers and consumers. Federal and state legislatures are considering new regulations for the industry that could adversely affect current industry practices, including the receipt of rebates from pharmaceutical companies. In addition, if a court were to determine that our PBM business acts as a fiduciary under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or ERISA, we could be subject to claims for alleged breaches of fiduciary obligations in implementation of formularies, preferred drug listings and therapeutic intervention programs, contracting network practices, speciality drug distribution and other transactions. Our PBM also conducts business as a mail order pharmacy, which subjects it to extensive federal, state and local
laws and regulations, as well as risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. The failure to adhere to these laws and regulations could expose our PBM subsidiary to civil and criminal penalties. We also face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our mail order pharmacy.
Our businesses depend on effective information systems and the integrity of the data in our information systems.
Our ability to adequately price our products and services, provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to accurately report our financial results depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. As a result of our acquisition activities, we have acquired additional systems. We have been taking steps to reduce the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. If the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care providers have regulatory problems, have increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences.
The value of our intangible assets may become impaired.
Due largely to our recent acquisitions, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $18.6 billion as of June 30, 2006, representing approximately 40% of our total assets. If we make additional acquisitions it is likely that we will record additional intangible assets on our books. We periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. Any future evaluations requiring an asset impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially affect our results of operations and shareholders' equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. A material decrease in shareholders' equity could, in turn, negatively impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants.
Our knowledge and information-related businesses depend on our ability to maintain proprietary rights to our databases and related products.
We rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. These legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. In addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, and we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this industry segment grows. Such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services.
We must comply with restrictions on patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure that our business associates who obtain access to sensitive patient information maintain its confidentiality.
The use of individually identifiable data by our businesses is regulated at the international, federal and state levels. These laws and rules are changed frequently by legislation or administrative interpretation. Various state laws address the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health data. Most are derived from the privacy and security provisions in the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, (HIPAA). HIPAA also imposes guidelines on our business associates (as this term is defined in the HIPAA regulations). Even though we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our business associates, we still have limited control over their actions and practices. Compliance with these proposals, requirements, and new regulations may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes, the development of new administrative processes, and the effects of potential noncompliance by our business associates. They also may impose further restrictions on our use of patient identifiable data that is housed in one or more of our administrative databases.
The anticipated benefits of acquiring PacifiCare may not be realized.
We acquired PacifiCare with the expectation that the merger will result in various benefits including, among others, benefits relating to a stronger and more diverse network of doctors and other health care providers, expanded and enhanced affordable health care services, enhanced revenues, a strengthened market position for UnitedHealth Group in the Western United States, cross-selling opportunities, technology, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether UnitedHealth Group integrates PacifiCare in an efficient and effective manner and general competitive factors in the marketplace. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and operating results.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 19, 2006
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
(December 19, 2006)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) today announced that at its annual investor conference in New York City it will report that it expects continued strong financial performance, driven by gains from increasing market share and strong operating margins across each of its business units.
MINNEAPOLIS
The Company will also affirm its previous outlook for 2006 net earnings of $4.14 billion to $4.16 billion, including fourth quarter 2006 net earnings in the range of $1.17 billion to $1.19 billion.
Also, management will discuss its 2007 financial outlook, which includes revenues of approximately $79.5 billion and net earnings in the range of $4.7 billion to $4.75 billion. The outlook for 2006 and 2007 include management's current estimated range of the additional non-cash charges for stock-based compensation expense for these years arising from the review of the Company's stock option practices conducted by the Independent Committee of the Board of Directors.
As discussed below, these estimates are not yet final and neither the estimates nor outlook reflect any adjustment for any non-operating cash charges which may be required in connection with the resolution of stock option-related tax matters, litigation, and regulatory matters, the amount and timing of which are uncertain but which are likely to be material. The estimates and outlook are also subject to the other risks and uncertainties described in "Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this press release. The Company has today
 
filed a Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that provides additional detail regarding risks and uncertainties facing the business.
Estimated Non-Cash Accounting Impact of Historical Stock Option Practices
On November 7, 2006, the Company announced that it was working expeditiously to complete its final review of accounting adjustments based on the October 15, 2006 WilmerHale report to the Independent Committee of the Board of Directors on the Company's historical stock option practices. The Company also announced at that time that, due solely to its expectation that it would recognize non-cash charges for stock-based compensation expense that were likely to be material for certain periods covered in the review, the Company's financial statements and earnings releases for the years ended 1994  2005 and the interim quarters through September 30, 2006, as well as the related reports of the Company's independent registered public accounting firm, should no longer be relied upon.
The Company has now substantially completed its analysis of the adjustments to its financial statements for pre-tax, non-cash stock-based compensation expense necessary to reflect the findings of the independent review and has submitted a request for consultation on certain interpretive issues to the Office of Chief Accountant of the SEC. The Company will review these issues with the SEC staff prior to completing its restatement of historical financial statements and filing quarterly reports for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, and September 30, 2006.
The Company analyzed the accounting impact under two methods: its former accounting method under APB 25, and its current accounting method under FAS 123R. Management estimates that the aggregate amount of pre-tax non-cash charges for stock-based compensation expense for the period 1994  2005 determined under APB 25, the Company's former method of accounting, ranges from $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion.
On January 1, 2006, the Company adopted FAS 123R using the modified retrospective transition method, under which all prior period financial statements were restated to recognize compensation expense in the amounts historically disclosed under FAS 123. Under this current accounting method, management estimates that the aggregate amount of pre-tax non-cash charges for stock-based compensation expense ranges from $400 million to $600 million for the period 1994  2005 and from $25 million to $60 million for 2006.
These estimates have not been audited and are not yet final; they are subject to change based upon the outcome of the Company's consultation with the SEC staff and completion of the Company's restatement of its historical financial statements, which will be audited. In addition, these estimates do not take into account any impact on prior tax deductions related to previously exercised stock options under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, or reflect any adjustment for any non-operating cash charges which may be required in connection with the resolution of stock option-related tax matters, litigation, and regulatory matters, the amount and timing of which are uncertain but which are likely to be material. See "Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this press release.
 
UnitedHealth Group's chief financial officer, G. Mike Mikan, said, "The accounting adjustment estimates announced today address stock option-related issues that are historical in nature, and do not stem from the current operations of our businesses. We will review our analysis and proposed restatement adjustments with the SEC and return to current filing status as quickly as possible."
Investor Meeting Webcast
The Company will have an audio webcast of this meeting on its investor information page at www.unitedhealthgroup.com. Slides will be viewable at the meeting and presented on the webcast. The slides and investor books containing answers to questions frequently asked by investors and related data about the Company's businesses are available at www.unitedhealthgroup.com.
Business Description
UnitedHealth Group (www.unitedhealthgroup.com) is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 70 million individuals nationwide.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the potential consequences of the findings announced on October 15, 2006 of the investigation by an Independent Committee of directors of our stock option programs (including the consequences of our determination that the Company's financial statements for the years ended 1994  2005, the interim periods contained therein, the quarter ended March 31, 2006 and all earnings and press releases, including for the quarters ended June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006, and similar communications issued by the Company for such periods and the related reports of the Company's independent registered public accounting firm should not be relied upon, the consequences of the resulting restatement of our financial statements for those periods, and delays in filing our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the second and third quarters of 2006), related governmental reviews by the SEC, IRS, U.S. Senate Finance Committee, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and Minnesota Attorney General, related review by the Special Litigation Committee of the Company,
 
and related shareholder derivative actions, shareholder demands and purported securities class actions, the resolution of matters currently subject to an injunction issued by the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota, a purported notice of acceleration with respect to certain of the Company's debt securities based upon an alleged event of default under the indenture governing such securities, and recent management and director changes, and the potential impact of each of these matters on our business, credit ratings and debt; increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption of or costs of medical services; heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers; events that may negatively affect our contract with AARP; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; funding risks with respect to revenues received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, legislative activity and government regulation and review of our industry; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service providers; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care provider disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; and anticipated benefits of acquiring PacifiCare that may not be realized.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 


Exhibit 99.3
UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group Center
9900 Bren Road East
Minnetonka, Minnesota 55343
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
 
Investor Conference
December 2006
Optimizing health at every stage
Welcome to the UnitedHealth Group 2006 Investor Conference  the 15th session we have held. Since we started these meetings, our organization has grown dramatically, in both reach and capabilities. And we have helped millions of people with their health needs, which is the soul of our enterprise.
Today, customer demands are changing, and our markets are evolving with them:
 
 
 
 
 
We thrive in and, in fact, help drive changing environments like this. Today we are well-equipped to anticipate and serve growing consumer needs. Technology enhancements, business process improvements and diversification into growing market segments have yielded an expanding array of health services, as well as operational advances.
For much of this year, stock option matters have understandably dominated the conversation about our company. We were embarrassed by and apologize for the failures in our stock option program and related areas, and have implemented a series of substantive initiatives to address them. We will be unrelenting in our efforts to achieve and maintain the highest standards for transparency, governance and conduct.
Given our prominence in the vital health care sector, we recognize that we have social responsibilities that exceed those of other commercial enterprises. Our leadership team and I take this responsibility personally, whether in our governance, in ensuring we have ethical behavior and business practices or, more broadly, in the way in which we think about the people we serve. We are committed to advancing a culture that embraces both high performance and high integrity.
Through the diversification of our businesses and expansion of our capabilities, UnitedHealth Group is well positioned to meet the evolving needs of the marketplace. We are moving forward with urgency and passion to develop and deliver innovative solutions that will expand access, promote quality, simplify service and make health care more affordable. We remain steadfast in our belief that basic health care services can and must be available to all Americans.
We look forward to a productive and thought-provoking discussion with you, and we thank you for your continued interest in our company.
 
D E  2007 O
ATA
LEMENTS
UTLOOK
 
 
The 2006 and 2007 outlook presented above and elsewhere in these materials, including estimates of net earnings and other financial information, reflect management's current estimated range of the additional non-cash charges for stock-based compensation expense for the applicable period arising from the review of the Company's stock option programs conducted by an Independent Committee of the Board of Directors. These estimates are not yet final and are subject to change based upon the finalization of the Company's restatement of its historical financial statements. In addition, this outlook excludes any adjustment for any non-operating cash charges that may be required in connection with the resolution of stock-option-related tax matters, litigation and regulatory matters, the amount and timing of which are uncertain but which are likely to be material. The estimates and outlook are also subject to the other risks and uncertainties described in "Forward-Looking Statements" included on the inside back cover of these materials.
UH G
NITED
EALTH
ROUP
B O
USINESS
VERVIEW
 
 
 
 
 
C
APABILITIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UH G
NITED
EALTH
ROUP
UH G L
NITED
EALTH
ROUP
EADERSHIP
C B L
ORPORATE
AND
USINESS
EADERS
 
UH G
NITED
EALTH
ROUP
Q A UH G
UESTIONS
AND
NSWERS
FROM
NITED
EALTH
ROUP
 
Effective December 1, 2006, the board of directors unanimously appointed Stephen Hemsley, who had been a senior executive with the company for nearly 10 years, most recently as president and chief operating officer, to the chief executive officer position. Mr. Hemsley is using this transition as an opportunity to rescale the management team, whose alignment and responsibilities had remained virtually unchanged since 1998, when UnitedHealth Group had only $17 billion in revenue.
The company has created new positions, such as that of president for each of the three major market groupings, and committed to add capabilities in new areas such as a chief administrative officer, chief legal officer, chief ethics officer and full-time secretary to the board. The new team will function in an open and collaborative fashion, expanding cross-segment and cross-enterprise capacity and tightening synchronization across businesses for the benefit of customers. We believe these changes will increase the resources we bring to bear and are necessary to appropriately staff the company for its next generation of growth.
These changes align with our historic beliefs about management. To achieve our goals, we must have strong executives who have proven skill and effectiveness, and who bring diverse capabilities, experience and knowledge to bear on the challenges and opportunities at hand.
We recruit to that profile, internally and externally. For some time, we have been moving executives into different leadership roles across our business segments. These actions have been conscious and strategic, methodical and low profile. Our objectives are to cross-breed and cultivate our leadership, and in so doing, build knowledge, insight, cooperation and depth. Over time, this will make UnitedHealth Group distinctive in the caliber and breadth of its leadership.
 
The board took several significant actions in the past year. Some of the most important actions include:
Corporate Governance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UH G
NITED
EALTH
ROUP
 
 
 
Compensation
 
 
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group has tremendous business opportunities across the broad range of business segments, markets and demographic groups that compose the vast health and well-being marketplace (which represents $2 trillion in annual expenditures in the United States alone). Our major challenges are internal and relate specifically to optimum execution, rather than anything stemming from external market dynamics. We must remain focused on the needs of our customers and continue to improve on what we do for them. And we must relentlessly challenge approaches and attitudes so that gains are made relative to future needs and resource availability, rather than the environment and culture of the past. We will only reach our full potential if we act on these things.
Our vision around this is straightforward  we believe our company can make a significant contribution to modernizing health systems in the United States, as well as internationally. We envision a system driven by evidence-based care and transparent information  a system where patients can easily learn who to see and where to go for high-quality, cost-effective care. We also see an infrastructure that supports this system in a seamless, efficient manner, where databases and portals, and connectivity and financing mechanisms all serve to create a simple, helpful experience for customers and care providers. Such characteristics will ensure a health system that offers quality, affordable and rational health care for every person. In achieving that, we will have responded to one of the most important issues for all those we serve.
We have invested significant time and money in building toward this vision, including hiring strong executives with very diverse backgrounds, building the technology substructure upon which it will ride, and incorporating efforts around scientific evidence and health quality directly into our businesses and products. Because others have also attempted to address some of these issues, our markets have always been competitive and no doubt will continue to be so. Accordingly, our biggest issue remains following through and continuing to act on our initiatives and agenda.
UH G
NITED
EALTH
ROUP
This is a major issue and challenge for our society. Controlling health care costs requires a comprehensive and integrated approach to organizing and advancing the full range of interrelationships with patients/consumers, health professionals, hospitals, pharmaceutical/technology manufacturers, and other key stakeholders. We consider the commitment to evidence-based and expert physician-guided clinical care criteria to be the foundation for all of our cost control activities.
The data is clear that physicians and hospitals are differentiated in the quality of their care and that this differentiation is correlated with the cost effectiveness of their care. Building upon this platform we support care professionals with tools such as best scientific guidance; data registries; performance feedback; and supplemental care coordination, wellness promotion, illness prevention and disease management services. As such, we have continuously advanced our ability, in productive collaboration with physicians, to reliably evaluate clinical quality, appropriateness and cost effectiveness of care delivery.
Using a tailored approach in our interactions with physicians, based upon demonstrated levels of quality and efficiency in performance, we have advanced a variety of tools that facilitate enhanced appropriateness in the use of emergency room care, in-patient hospitalization and advanced imaging services, among others. We are committed to innovation in identifying and organizing networks of "best performers" across a wide range of clinical disciplines, matched with innovation in the development and deployment of effective consumer decision-support tools such as Internet portals, trained "decision-support coaches" and new health benefit designs to facilitate consumer access to the right care to meet their individual needs. All of these unite to provide the patient high-quality, evidence-based care in a setting appropriate to their need.
Given that the costs of new pharmaceutical and technological products and services are critical drivers of cost inflation, we maximize the advantages of our purchasing leverage on behalf of our customers. Our tiered formulary benefit approaches have continued to provide opportunities to realize advantageous price negotiations, resulting in industry-leading pharmaceutical trends. We use similar approaches to provide more affordable access to medical equipment and durable goods. Finally, attentiveness to fair and responsible hospital and physician contracting continues to improve our ability to offer consumers access to an ever-expanding and more cost-effective network.
We are also focused across the enterprise on our responsibility  and our opportunities  to drive down the administrative costs associated with clinical care delivery. At the point of care, eligibility is now established via one of our nearly 20 million electronic "swipe cards" thus reducing processing time and inconvenience for patients and physicians. The increasing adoption of a robust physician Internet portal and other forms of electronic connectivity means that claims are now usually submitted to us online, processed automatically, and are increasingly paid by deposits directly into the physician's bank account. Our more than $3 billion investment in electronic and data infrastructures and business process change over the past five years is resulting in a significant decrease in health care administrative costs.
We will continue to advance this integrated approach to cost control that successfully emphasizes enhanced quality of care that is delivered efficiently to meet the individual needs of our customers.
 
The challenge in innovation is more one of idea implementation, rather than idea generation.
The difficulty associated with implementing innovations comes in driving scalability  using technology to implement change in a way that addresses all circumstances and connects with all existing systems  and in driving adoption, which essentially means applying the change management process across and within entities over which we have no actual control.
Our consistently strong level of technology investment  another estimated $300 million in technology and business process change expenses in 2007 and $500+ million in technology capital expenditures  helps us in implementing innovation. For example, our health-care-related banking efforts benefit from our ability to link this infrastructure to one claim processing system, one database of medical information, one standardized connectivity solution, etc.
When we launch an innovation, we typically apply it across all products, all geographies and all customers. We endeavor to turn technology strategy into a competitive advantage by using it to accelerate the cycle time for innovation implementation.
UH G
NITED
EALTH
ROUP
We expect to sustain our strong performance:
 
 
 
20 percent range.
 
 
UnitedHealth Group is involved in a number of distinct and meaningful businesses with different operating and earnings characteristics. Our margins should not be benchmarked solely to the managed care or health insurance group, as our business mix is strikingly different. Segments such as Specialized Care Services and Uniprise produce margins in the area of 15 percent to 20 percent on large revenue bases; there is significant fee-based revenue with higher gross margins in UnitedHealthcare; and, there are high-margin technology offerings in Ingenix.
Secondly, UnitedHealth Group has made more than $3 billion in investments in technology and change initiatives in just the past five years. Through these efforts, we have improved productivity by applying technology to automate and streamline processes to achieve the lowest cost for delivering services, thus creating differential margin advantages and results in our businesses.
 
Growth is an important indicator of the vitality of any business and the markets it serves. Every business  regardless of industry  has to grow to prosper. Our growth comes as a product of the overall market expansion in health care and the increased market share we gain by meeting the needs of clients in ways superior to other alternatives. This can be seen in each of our businesses and, of course, includes enrollment as an indicator of market share success for businesses such as UnitedHealthcare, AmeriChoice and Uniprise. It is the overall growth and diversity of our enterprise, not the ups and downs of any single business, that define our success and enable us to perform to our ongoing double-digit percentage, top-line organic revenue growth objective.
Participating in high-growth markets  in this case, ones that expand $100 billion per year  creates natural growth opportunities superior to those within a mature, slow-growing marketplace. This situation makes unit growth less of a concern to us than capital returns. Growth without an appropriate, risk-adjusted return on capital is not growth we desire, and is tantamount to selling a product below its full cost.
UH G
NITED
EALTH
ROUP
If the value proposition of one of our products does not allow it to be positioned at a price point that produces a fair and adequate return, we must upgrade the value proposition, reduce the cost structure, or not participate in that submarket. We occasionally see competitors in our various market segments price their own products at levels we cannot understand. This phenomenon is of course not limited to the health care services industry and has been widely observed in businesses such as telecommunications, technology and consumer products. In our experience, this behavior tends to be short-lived as the capital markets and/or other financial constraints push for rationality. When we see situations with low returns relative to the related cost of capital and opportunity cost, we invest in other parts of our growth enterprise and wait for the dynamics to correct themselves. The result is that we are able to provide more predictable value to customers and more consistent returns to shareholders.
 
We use cost of capital disciplines to derive internal hurdle rates that we use to measure the effective deployment of capital resources. Our baseline cost of capital has been derived from the forward options markets using an options pricing model. We employ different hurdle rates for our consolidated organization (UnitedHealth Group) and for each of our business segments, based on consideration of their respective individual risk profiles. The UnitedHealth Group hurdle rate is in the low double digits, while the individual segment rates move up from the UnitedHealth Group level.
We use these hurdle rates to evaluate internal capital projects and acquisition opportunities. We also measure and monitor quarterly the shareholder value we create. This is measured by the excess of our operating earnings over the pre-tax weighted-average cost of capital charge (pre-tax weighted-average cost of capital multiplied by the net assets of the business segments). It is measured at both the consolidated and individual business segment levels.
 
We regard cash flow as a critical indicator of the health of any underlying business. We run our businesses to produce cash, and we also value companies relative to M&A activities based on their own cash flow performance. Looking forward, we continue to expect strong cash flows, both in absolute dollars as well as on a relative basis, that exceed our net income plus depreciation and amortization. Cash flow should generally grow with earnings, although it is affected in any given year by changes in business mix.
Our cash conversion cycle is excellent. With about five days of sales in accounts receivable and 53 days in medical costs payable, excluding balances related to AARP, our cash conversion cycle will likely weaken a bit in the future. It is difficult to reduce receivables from this level. Advances in technology and business processes already are driving claims submissions from physicians and hospitals that are closer to the date on which care was actually rendered and payments to care providers that are made directly from us via electronic funds transfer, rather than the paper checks typically used today. These changes will further improve the quality and timeliness of our information flow, improve our business-to-business relationships with the delivery side of health care, and reduce the number of days medical costs payable on the balance sheet. All of this will mitigate our cash flow modestly. As always, we will continue to carry strong and appropriate medical reserves.
 
No. Mergers and acquisitions continue to be a component of supporting superior performance but are not essential to achieve that goal. Similarly, size unto itself is never our goal, so acquisition-driven growth is not a primary agenda.
We continue to value companies using a discounted cash flow model with returns measured over a five-year minimum. Acquisitions must: a) strengthen an existing business or platform; and/or, b) provide a new platform for future growth; and/or, c) bring tools, technologies or skills that cannot be otherwise obtained or developed more cheaply or efficiently. Finally, the acquisition must accrue value to the continuing and future shareholders. This essentially means that synergies belong to UnitedHealth Group, not the seller, and accretion should be realized in the very near term, if not immediately.
UH G
NITED
EALTH
ROUP
These alliances are unique in health service delivery today, as they bring together the assets and resources of for-profit and not-for-profit health benefits organizations with the singular objective of making a better health system. The alliances offer the customers of each organization improved care access and services, and also leverage investments and economies of scale among the participants. They are true business alliances, integrating product offerings, processing technology and connectivity, and they stand in contrast with the recently popular network leasing arrangements that other have adopted lately. The end results have been strengthened provider network access and greater affordability with less capital deployment for both parties in each alliance.
 
We project we will process prescriptions with a value (after discounts) of $25 billion in 2007.
We employ a professional team of 125 people in UnitedHealth Pharmaceutical Solutions, the pharmaceutical management area of our UnitedHealthcare business. They manage about $10 billion of drug spending in benefit plans for commercial employers across all sizes and markets. This group controls the important elements of drug programs, including benefit design and prescription drug list management. Our long-standing external partner  Medco Health Solutions  handles fulfillment and other logistics on our behalf and has done an excellent job to date.
The recent acquisition of PacifiCare included their PBM, Prescription Solutions. Our initial assessment of its capabilities has been very positive, and we are aggressively expanding this business in the senior market segment. We project it will manage $15 billion in prescription value in 2007, primarily in the senior market, including processing significant mail volumes through its Carlsbad, Calif. facility, as well as a brand new state-of-the-art facility in Overland Park, Kan. This would represent growth of approximately 250 percent over estimated 2006 results.
Our drug trends have been among the lowest in the industry every year. For example, our pharmaceutical trend for the commercial business is projected in the 6.5 percent range, marking the fourth consecutive year with a trend below 7 percent. The acquisition of Prescription Solutions improves our resources and capabilities and increases our flexibility as future opportunities arise.
 
Acquisitions typically lower our ROE for a short period of time. Our acquisitions of Oxford Health Plans and MAMSI temporarily lowered our return on equity, which nonetheless significantly exceeded our weighted-average cost of capital. We expect a comparative cycle of first-year modest dilution to around 22 percent following our December 2005 merger with PacifiCare, with a subsequent recovery into the upper 20 percent range over time.
While considering return on equity, it is worth pointing out that we use hurdle rates derived from segment-specific weighted-average cost of capital (WACC) disciplines rather than return on equity in our internal assessment of capital deployment. Potential acquisitions are required to generate returns that exceed their segment-specific WACC hurdle rate. As a result, some reduction to the ROE on a book-value basis  particularly at recent levels  is acceptable and presents the right decision for a project or acquisition that improves overall shareholder value.
 
Currently, we are well capitalized with a balance of just under 30 percent debt to total debt plus shareholders' equity. Given our continuing growth in earnings and operating cash flows, we could see moving up our leverage modestly into the 30 percent to 35 percent range. Our current "A" credit rating from the major rating agencies is important to us and, we believe, to our customers, so we would need to work with the rating agencies to ensure retention of our "A" rating if we were to modestly increase our leverage over time.
UH G
NITED
EALTH
ROUP
We regularly consider the issues of dividends, share repurchases and other uses of our cash flow. To date, the board of directors has concluded that share repurchase provides a superior return to our shareholders while maintaining greater financial flexibility when compared to an increased dividend. In May 2006, the board renewed our Stock Repurchase Program under which up to 140 million shares of the company's common stock may be repurchased. Due to the stock options matter, the board of directors has temporarily suspended the Company's Stock Repurchase Plan, pending becoming current in filing its reports with the SEC.
Since 1997, UnitedHealth Group has bought $16 billion of stock representing 883 million shares, or 58 percent of the shares outstanding at year-end 1997, at a weighted-average cost of $18 per share. The absolute share count has decreased by 12 percent over this time frame, even after consideration of shares issued for M&A, including MAMSI, Oxford and PacifiCare, as well as from stock option exercise.
The board of directors will continue to evaluate this issue. Because of 1) the benefits of financial flexibility for activities such as acquisitions, 2) the earnings accretion of share repurchase, 3) the comparatively modest value of our stock relative to our future business prospects, and 4) the superior historical returns that have been derived from share repurchase versus a higher dividend, it is likely that the board will continue to support share repurchase as a superior use of excess capital generated by the businesses. In connection with our stock split in May 2005, we announced that we would sustain our 3 cent per share annual dividend, effectively doubling the dividend payout in 2006 from its previous level. There may come a time when our cash flow will grow to the point that it makes sense to begin blending a higher dividend payout ratio with continued repurchase, and the board would not hesitate to take that step if appropriate.
 
We have an Insider Trading Policy that all employees and directors must follow. Our policy prohibits individuals and their affiliates from trading in company securities if they are aware of any material nonpublic information. In addition, our senior officers and directors must obtain from the company's general counsel the specific authorization to trade, regardless of when the trade occurs. These individuals are not permitted to trade during specified blackout periods (around the time of earnings releases or other potentially material events).
Individuals, particularly senior managers and executives, are strongly encouraged to hold UnitedHealth Group stock. Any employee may exercise stock options or sell owned shares at their discretion as long as the stated rules are followed. We expect employees, officers and directors will periodically sell shares as part of their personal financial planning programs. These individuals contribute to the success of the company, and we believe that as shareholders they should realize some of the gains attendant to that success.
 
We realize a number of benefits from our technology investments. They can be assessed on several levels.
First, our primary long-term motivation is to deliver better products and services to the marketplace. Improved technology helps us perform at higher quality levels with greater consistency, which translates into better value for all the constituents we serve. In this pursuit, we must continually improve performance across a spectrum of basic areas such as paying claims, controlling the cost of care, better coordination of care delivery, improved resolution of questions, and so on. These types of advancements will keep our businesses vibrant and make them extremely competitive.
Second, we are far more productive as we move repetitive activities to technology solutions and displace labor into other areas. This can be seen in the changes to our revenue per capita since 1998. We have systematically improved productivity from $590,000 per employee to a projected $1,050,000 per employee at year-end 2006  a 78 percent advance.
All of this goes hand in hand with sustained overall margin improvement during that time frame. Further gains should continue as technology is further deployed into our business activities.
UH G
NITED
EALTH
ROUP
We believe several international markets could be meaningful from a health care perspective. What is not clear is whether these markets can be approached successfully from a commercial perspective, or what the optimum timing will be to pursue those opportunities.
Our approach to international expansion should be viewed broadly. In essence, we have been assessing the international markets for nearly 10 years. Our efforts have been intentionally cautious and methodical, carefully building partnerships and staying close to what we know. We have tended to focus on services and stay away from risk-based products, and we have made small acquisitions, notably in the contract pharmaceutical research market.
Our recent successes in the United Kingdom from introducing the Evercare model to the National Health Service (NHS) have increased our visibility. We have recently added significant executive talent to better pursue and manage opportunities in Europe, as well as possible activities in Asia and Latin America. We see these opportunities developing slowly but substantially across several of our business segments. As we evaluate opportunities, we will use our capital judiciously and require solid performance in return. There are no significant assumptions with respect to international expansion or contribution in our 2007 financial outlook.
 
The underlying U.S. health care market is distinct in that it expands with tremendous consistency at around $100 billion per year. All businesses in all industries have elements of pricing cycles. We have observed such behavior on a regional basis throughout the past 20 years as local competitors  often not-for-profits  released excess profits through pricing for market share. Over the years, we have not regarded this behavior as cyclical, as it seems to be present at all times somewhere in the country, including last year, this year and likely next year. We have become accustomed to this pricing activity and have no expectation that it will change in the foreseeable future.
 
Our business is built around making the health care system work better through the optimal organization and use of resources, the application of technology, and the application of information. These capabilities can be applied  and indeed are essential  to government-funded programs, just as they are applied to meet the needs of commercial employers, physicians and health care service providers, and individual consumers.
Federal, state and local governments currently spend approximately $1 trillion per year on health care  about 47 percent of all U.S. health care spending and 8 percent of the gross domestic product. Although concerns around funding pressures and volatility with government sources are real, they do not preclude our involvement. We remain cautious and discriminating to ensure that we are not squandering limited resources without reasonable returns for our other stakeholders, but we believe we can help this group of clients and, in turn, be rewarded.
While budget and other issues are certainly challenging for states today, the need for services is increasing and sustained. States are turning to private health plans to help meet the needs of approximately 50 million people eligible for Medicaid and other related state health programs. There are limited options for the states, and we believe effective services from high-quality enterprises will be at a premium. Growth and acceptable financial results can result for good operators who provide hands-on, focused management and have the ability to work with government sponsors and related parties.
The outlook for the senior health market is similar, although larger in scale. The U.S. Congress has authorized expanded benefits for Medicare-eligible seniors while outsourcing the delivery of these benefits to the private sector. While there will undoubtedly be changes in specific regulations governing these programs in the future, we think it is highly unlikely that the government will ever withdraw these enhanced benefits from the electorate.
UH G
NITED
EALTH
ROUP
We have publicly stated for years that essential health care services should be available for all people. The uninsured as a group represent many categories, but, as documented by the prestigious Institute of Medicine, the current prevalence of uninsured persons results in significant health and social consequences for all of us  whether we are purchasers, care providers, community residents or uninsured individuals.
An essential first step in addressing the increasing number of uninsured people is to control the escalation in health care costs. As we describe elsewhere in this document, we are focused across the enterprise on the comprehensive and integrated strategies appropriate to this problem. It is equally important to urgently address the so-called "safety net" of community clinic and other providers of care for currently uninsured and underinsured persons. As a result, we have partnered with the National Association of Community Health Centers, and other advocates for these vital organizations, to create a network of community-based clinic "Centers of Excellence" in some of the most socio-economically challenged communities in the nation. Millions of dollars in funding have resulted in expanded access to care centers that have become clinics of choice, and not just last resort. The lessons learned from the documented excellence in quality of care provided by these clinics are being shared with others throughout the country.
Looking forward, we continue our efforts to support coordinated activity by key organizations whose influence is critical to passage of legislation that expands access to essential health care for all. We have devoted considerable funding and leadership to engage a diverse coalition of employer, hospital, physician, employee, medical industry, public health, elected official, policy and other organizations that are scheduled to deliver their consensus recommendation to Congress on January 18, 2007. This activity is consistent with our historical call for the definition and implementation of a package of "essential health benefits" that can be delivered to all via a combination of public and private sector solutions. As such, we have also consistently urged the various agencies of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to inform the national discourse with the relevant research on what might constitute those preventive and clinical interventions that could be considered "essential" and that have scientific evidence of their effectiveness.
 
While new entrant participation in these health care areas is certainly possible, the barriers to entry to being a meaningful participant in markets we currently serve are both formidable and challenging, and are strikingly more so than just a few years ago. Three issues are particularly relevant:
 
 
 
The entry of new participants, or even partnerships among different entities such as health benefits companies and financial services institutions, certainly can occur and might be relevant. In our estimation, however, such events would not dramatically change the competitive landscape or alter the basic performance of UnitedHealth Group.
UH G
NITED
EALTH
ROUP
Health care is the most urgent and complex challenge facing this country. Health costs are having a debilitating impact on American industrial competitiveness. Tens of millions of baby boomers are entering into their retirement years. The number of uninsured people is 47 million and growing. And both working and middle-class people feel the sharp pain of rising health care expenses.
These problems can be solved by government and companies working together with focus and urgency, openness to fresh ideas and pragmatic approaches based on the will to succeed. We are always ready to work with government leaders, as we did in addressing start-up issues in the implementation of Part D earlier this year. We have relevant experience and expertise based on creating innovative programs that have helped millions of people acquire access to high-quality, cost-effective care. We want to use these assets, working with others who have important experience and knowledge, to help shape and implement the solutions that this country so badly needs.
 
As many investors appreciate, our core business is facilitating and advancing health and well-being  making the health system work better on behalf of a myriad of constituents and participants. We do not have non-core business, and we are not simply a health insurance company. Our primary businesses continue to be built around three capabilities: organizing resources, applying practical technology, and gathering and sharing information. We repurpose and repackage these capabilities for every market and customer segment for which we can add value and create an acceptable return for our efforts. To the extent that a customer requires a financing mechanism to access these capabilities, we will sell them insurance as well.
UH G
NITED
EALTH
ROUP
B O
USINESS
VERVIEW
Specialized Care Services has aligned its businesses into three operating groups:
 
 
 
C
APABILITIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S C S
PECIALIZED
ARE
ERVICES
M C
ARKET
HARACTERISTICS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
G P
ROWTH
AND
ERFORMANCE
 
 
 
 
S C S
PECIALIZED
ARE
ERVICES
Q A S C S
UESTIONS
AND
NSWERS
FROM
PECIALIZED
ARE
ERVICES
 
Specialized Care Services is organized into three major operating groups  Specialized Health Solutions, Vision and Dental, and Group Insurance Services  each aligned to specific markets and their purchasing characteristics.
is composed of Optum, ACN Group, United Resource Networks and United Behavioral Health, and brings together products and services that typically are fully embedded in a comprehensive health benefit into one seamless experience  ranging from behavioral and substance abuse benefits to physical medicine networks and clinical capabilities, and from complex disease management to consumer health information.
Specialized Health Solutions
This alignment better enables us to identify, triage and address the full range of consumer health care needs along a continuum of care, guiding consumers to the most appropriate health care interventions.
We align these capabilities to the market through three strategic market segments we serve: the employer segment for both UnitedHealth Group customers and unaffiliated parties; the payer segment for independent health plans, TPAs and reinsurers; and the public sector segment for state Medicaid partnerships with AmeriChoice and other intermediaries. This market focus allows us to package capabilities and tailor our sales strategies to meet the unique needs of these three market segments.
The capabilities alignment within Specialized Health Solutions enhances our ability to offer integrated, bundled products and services while continuing to provide best-in-class, carve-out services based on customer needs. We are also positioned to deliver improved operating efficiencies, particularly in the case of system platform upgrades that can be shared across individual business units within the operating group.
provides a wide array of product offerings to commercial, public sector and health plan clients. The depth of industry experience from our leaders within the vision and dental business has allowed us to develop products, market our brand, build customer relationships and manage our provider network assets effectively in a dynamic marketplace. Further, our integrated platforms allow us to efficiently deliver exceptional customer services and effectively manage health care costs. Our success both in selling directly and utilizing distribution partners can be seen in our strong growth performance.
Vision and Dental
is positioned to take maximum advantage of the distribution opportunities created by working alongside of our sister UnitedHealth Group companies. GIS's nationwide sales force works in tandem with UnitedHealthcare to distribute life, disability and dental products to existing customers. GIS salespeople also sell the product set on a stand-alone basis, providing an entry point for the potential future sale of other UnitedHealth Group products.
Group Insurance Services (GIS)
 
Specialized Care Services pursues three primary market segments:
 
 
S C S
PECIALIZED
ARE
ERVICES
 
Affordability for plan sponsors and consumers continues as the predominant market trend in health care overall. However, given the growing emphasis on consumerism as a means of achieving improved costs, programs that focus on purchasing and treatment decisions and the health behaviors of individual consumers are emerging as the critical link to affordability.
Specifically, the marketplace is asking for the means to stimulate more active, informed consumer behavior along the full continuum of health status, combined with truly consumer-friendly tools, information and resources across multiple modalities (e.g., online, phone, worksite communication, mail, etc.) and expert navigation across the health care system. This means integrating services to address current health status needs while anticipating potential future needs  for example, guiding individuals to the most appropriate physician and supporting treatment plan compliance while identifying links among medical, behavioral, work-life or disability needs, or between pharmacy and associated diagnoses  and targeting communication, education and outreach in ways that match individual needs and preferences.
The need for integration is further underscored as many employers increasingly seek a single partner to help them manage the health of their total population. Segregated condition offerings from stand-alone vendors or health plans can create service overlaps or gaps, drive up direct and indirect costs (e.g., management time) and potentially diminish the consumer experience due to the lack of program integration and coordinated information sharing.
As integration-related issues continue to move to the forefront, the breadth of offerings under the single, integrated mantle of Specialized Care Services  Optum (NurseLine, disease management and wellness programs), United Behavioral Health (behavioral and employee assistance programs) and United Resource Networks (complex and highly specialized disease processes and management)  uniquely positions us to meet the increasing demands of the trend while continuing to provide best-in-class, carve-out capabilities based on customer needs.
In addition, as the continued cost emphasis drives employers to seek new ways of offering value to employees, voluntary ancillary benefit offerings, such as life, disability, dental and vision products, are gaining prominence. These voluntary products allow employers to offer employee benefit programs that balance competitive benefit offerings and affordable prices. Frequently, employers offering these products will require employees to pay between 25 percent and 100 percent of the cost through payroll deductions. In other variations, employers will purchase a base benefit and "buy-up" options will be offered to employees at their own expense. Specialized Care Services, through its life, disability, dental and vision companies, is a market leader in voluntary ancillary benefit offerings for small, medium and large companies.
 
We begin by assessing the current health of the total population, categorizing it along a health status continuum that ranges from well to at-risk to chronically, acutely and catastrophically ill, and then predicting movement among the categories. This is coupled with demographic information (e.g., an aging population) and momentum and trends created or stimulated by product and service innovations in the industry, employer demands and new market needs.
For example, employer emphasis on wellness to both curb costs and sustain employee productivity emerged simultaneously with wellness programs; interest in wellness programs has grown as offerings have become increasingly innovative, sophisticated and effective. Further, as Medicare, Medicaid and public sector employers have actively begun to seek strategies to drive costs down and quality outcomes up, a previously untapped market for most specialty health services is opening. At the same time, as employers seek to more broadly apply the cost management lessons of their health care programs, specialty care programs are also gaining a foothold in workers' compensation and other occupational health programs.
S C S
PECIALIZED
ARE
ERVICES
We anticipate the various components that compose Specialized Care Services will see growth in the range of 5 percent to 30 percent for a combined annual growth rate between 15 percent to 20 percent over the next several years. We expect our principal growth to be from organic sources, but we will continue to supplement our offerings through acquisitions, as appropriate, including both properties that strengthen our position in existing markets as well as those that bring us new capabilities.
 
The behavioral health market remains very competitive across all of our market segments. However, we believe United Behavioral Health continues to differentiate itself through unique product development, strong clinical integration, and a more complete assessment of the impact that behavioral health programs have across the entire health continuum.
 
 
 
In addition, we are investing meaningfully in delivery models for our health plan and public sector segments  areas that represent significant growth opportunities for United Behavioral Health. In 2006, we successfully secured the behavioral business of four nonaffiliated health plans  adding more than 1 million members. We were also successful in securing a contract for 2007 with TennCare in collaboration with our sister company, AmeriChoice. By focusing our investments in areas that generate the greatest return for our customers, we will meet emerging market needs and continue to perform well relative to our competitors.
 
In our view, outcome-driven, cost-effective health care requires a holistic approach to care. Traditional condition-specific disease management is giving way to the process of addressing the entire health status continuum  identifying and managing, for example, consumers with early indicators of illness, or proactively managing chronically ill consumers including the co-morbidity of depression  evolving disease management into a critical component of total health and productivity management for individuals and employers.
Specialized Care Services offers an extensive number of specific disease management programs that integrate seamlessly with our wellness programs, health information services, focused case management and guidance to quality network providers' services, to create solutions for total health management.
Our integrated technology platform and robust clinical data allow us to use multiple methods of identification, including predictive modeling, to ensure individual health status categories are properly stratified and appropriately referred to optimize health outcomes and reduce health care costs. This technology also allows us to extend disease management's reach and influence beyond consumer behavior change to improved health system effectiveness through data sharing and interactions with treating physicians.
 
The acquisition of PacifiCare added significant market presence in the Pacific and Western regions of the country for each of the operating units. In addition, the PacifiCare ancillary product portfolio complements the existing products distributed by Vision and Dental and GIS. The Specialized Health Solutions operating unit was able to adopt several best practices that existed within the PacifiCare disease management and behavioral health suites of products and immediately improve its overall product offering. In addition, Specialized Health Solutions strengthened PacifiCare's offerings by bringing additional product capabilities to PacifiCare members, such as physical medicine resources, additional disease and care management programs, and United Resource Networks centers of excellence.
S C S
PECIALIZED
ARE
ERVICES
We continue to look for opportunities to apply our clinical and data-driven approach and operations management to specialized fields that help individuals find and make effective use of health and well-being services. For the past couple of years, we have been working diligently to build out national capabilities for our chiropractic, complementary and alternative care, and dental, life and vision products. Those efforts are largely complete, which has allowed us to turn our focus to enabling a new set of opportunities.
 
 
 
 
Our plans for 2007 include a focus on external sales, continued penetration of our products and services within our sister segments, expansion of our new products, and even further integration of systems and services.
 
Specialized Care Services is a consumer-focused business. In fact, the growing trend toward consumers being more engaged in their health and well-being was the catalyst for the formation of our business segment in 1998. Our connections to the consumer have grown in many ways including:
 
 
 
In addition, through our dental and vision programs we are giving consumers more control of personal health care decisions via tools, information and product options. Our Dental Cost Treatment Calculator, for example, allows members to calculate exact costs and out-of-pocket expenses for dental procedures performed by specific providers in our network. Likewise, our consumer-directed CHOICE voluntary vision product allows individuals to tailor their benefit selections to their individual family needs.
S C S
PECIALIZED
ARE
ERVICES
UnitedHealth Group companies view our offerings just as an unaffiliated purchaser does  as high-quality, unique, value-added capabilities that effectively address critical health care needs. We continue to be very successful distributing our products, such as vision, dental and life insurance, through UnitedHealthcare and Uniprise, as well as to customers across business units within Specialized Care Services.
As an example, our dental business added some 480,000 additional UnitedHealth Group-affiliated individuals over the 12-month period ended September 30, 2006, which is a 15 percent increase year over year. In addition, our disease management and physical medicine groups partnered with Unimerica to bring to market an integrated disability management program, while a joint effort among AmeriChoice and our care and behavioral health management groups delivered a fully integrated medical and behavioral health management program to the state of Georgia.
We still have significant potential in this distribution approach, since we are only approximately 60 percent penetrated into a roughly $4.5 billion total revenue opportunity for other UnitedHealth Group customers.
 
We target an operating margin of 17 percent to 20 percent for the segment as a whole. Each of our businesses is in a different stage of development, and margins can vary significantly based on those stages, as well as during any time period in which we are preparing for or experiencing considerable growth. Our operating margins are currently about 19 percent in the aggregate.
For the past several years, our fastest growing lines have been offerings with comparatively higher revenue and lower percentage margins. We have offset their effect on our operating margin percentage by improving our efficiency and enhancing the underlying cost position of our core infrastructure. We will continue to manage these costs effectively, but we anticipate strong growth in our newer product sets that may moderate our total margin percentage slightly over time.
 
Yes. In fact, Specialized Care Services initiated Six Sigma at UnitedHealth Group.
In 2003, we deployed an initiative called Just Right Service  which includes Six Sigma disciplines  in each of our businesses. The application of Six Sigma reduces defects and variation in our business processes, while the discipline of Just Right Service accelerates the creation of a common culture focused on urgent execution on initiatives that yield demonstrable cost and service benefits for our customers and consumers.
To date, Just Right Service projects have contributed approximately $120 million in benefits  and we are continuing to accelerate our deployment. We will keep driving performance and creating sustainable cost and service advantages into 2007 and beyond.
S C S
PECIALIZED
ARE
ERVICES
B O
USINESS
VERVIEW
 
 
 
 
 
C
APABILITIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I
NGENIX
by more than 375,000 health care providers.
 
 
 
M C
ARKET
HARACTERISTICS
 
 
G P
ROWTH
AND
ERFORMANCE
 
 
 
 
I
NGENIX
Q A I
UESTIONS
AND
NSWERS
FROM
NGENIX
 
The outlook for Ingenix  both near term and long term  is excellent, especially given our intense focus on providing solutions that address significant problems in the purchase and delivery of health care services. The customers we serve across all of our markets have an increasing need for innovative ways to use data and information solutions to meet the growing need for affordability and quality in the delivery of health care. Accordingly, we continue to invest, both internally and externally, to align our solution sets with the specific market needs of our customers. These investments will continue to solve problems related to clinical data development and access, predictive modeling and medical trend management, revenue cycle management and administrative claim simplification, clinical quality leadership, and the affordability of health care across the entire spectrum of the health industry. Our innovative solutions  including offerings in clinical research, pharmaceutical safety, pharmaceutical prescription profiling, provider data management, employer and payer analytics and reporting, data warehousing and database management  are driving meaningful revenue and earnings growth.
We believe well-developed databases are essential for developing more efficient and higher quality health care products and services. Importantly, Ingenix has innovative solutions to advance the quality and affordability of health care. The depth and breadth of our assets, as well as our commitment to product innovation, remain unmatched in the industry. Market demand for health data, analytics and technology services continues to grow significantly among physicians, hospitals, employers, consumers, drug and device manufacturers, governments, property and casualty insurers, and commercial payers. Ingenix is well positioned to lead a still immature marketplace in addressing this expanding need.
 
In two principal ways. First, we continue to provide a set of "anchor" technologies that address essential and, literally, pervasive needs. These products are widely adopted, and in some cases are nearly ubiquitous in the markets we serve. They include our Symmetry, GeoAccess, MDR/PHCS, ImpactPro, Parallax and PowerTrak products in the employer, health care payer and workers' compensation payer markets; Claims Manager, Winstrat and coding publications in the provider market; and contract research organization (CRO), outcomes and drug safety products and services in the pharmaceutical market.
i
Second, we began in 2005 to integrate these anchor technologies with other tools and capabilities to create more high-impact, end-to-end solutions for our customers. For example, we are helping medical practices and facilities to accelerate their revenue cycles, health plans to completely automate their underwriting cycles, and P&C clients to bring managed care techniques and technologies to workers' compensation claims.
The reception from the market to Ingenix's highly focused approach to solving real business problems for customers has contributed to the high levels of 2006 growth, and positions Ingenix exceptionally well for 2007.
 
We believe that Ingenix is unique because of its strong set of anchor technologies, its increasing depth of solutions linked to these anchor technologies, and its breadth across multiple end markets. Niche competitors exist in many Ingenix markets, but no one works across the entire system with a full range of capabilities like Ingenix. Ingenix provides an important set of tools for a large array of different businesses and thus serves as a valuable partner to many health care information technology players, even while it may be a formidable competitor to others. Large clinical, administrative and consumer IT companies, such as IDX Corporation (GE), TriZetto, Amisys Synertech, WebMD and Revolution Health, are among our major customers and partners.
I
NGENIX
Ingenix launched a formal Public Sector initiative in 2006, taking our leading position in fraud and abuse, data warehousing, predictive modeling and care management into the State and Federal government market. Important new initiatives where we have expertise, such as Medicare Part D and drug safety, also served to drive our successful entrance. In its first year, Ingenix has launched successful initiatives at the Federal level with the Department of Defense and the FDA, as well as with a number of key state Medicaid agencies, where we are working to identify the ways our tools can help address the significant challenges of adequately funding Medicaid budgets while simultaneously improving the quality of care to our nation's most vulnerable recipients. This is a long-term business focus for us, and we expect the public sector as a whole to become an increasingly important source of business for Ingenix.
 
In the near future, real-time data analysis will become part of the core of health care delivery and the operating systems in all health care institutions. We believe the movement of claims, clinical information and money among health care professionals and institutions, health plans and consumers represents an important area of investment for Ingenix. We have made two acquisitions in 2006  Claredi and ENS, leaders in EDI and the claims clearinghouse businesses  that will position Ingenix to be the leader in this area.
 
Intuit is a leader in developing Web sites and software to help consumers simplify complex and highly manual tasks, such as filing taxes or paying bills. Health care is similarly full of such complex and highly manual tasks, and we are convinced that consumers are looking for tools that will simplify them. Ingenix and Intuit have entered into a multiyear arrangement to study consumers' behavior in health care and to develop products that consumers, physicians, employers, health plans, banks, and others can use to simplify the health care experience. The first of these products will be released in 2007 and will target consumers who are interested in better managing their health care finances. The initial product will be distributed in cooperation with health plans and employers.
We see more innovative companies that have had successes in other industries moving into health care markets, and part of our strategy at Ingenix is to bring our health care expertise and partner with the best of these companies.
 
The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are critical to the delivery, cost and quality of health care. Ingenix's involvement in the overall improvement of health care via a host of component elements makes this client segment an important one. No other CRO has the clinical data sets we use to rapidly identify the physicians who are treating patients with specific conditions for a particular drug research project, nor do any offer post-approval data and analytic services to promptly track drug safety. Our capabilities and efforts focus on the entire range of product assessment through commercialization and life-cycle management services  pipeline assessment, market access and product positioning, clinical trials, safety and outcomes research, and medical education. These unparalleled data and analytics assets give Ingenix a unique competitive advantage.
Our focus is to help pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers effectively and efficiently get drugs to market and improve health outcomes through integrated information, analysis and technology. We are in a fairly unique position of being able to bring vast data and deep analytic tools to help speed clinical trials by identifying the pharmaceutical outcomes. This plays well to our long-standing competencies in data aggregation, data research and analysis, and efforts to expand access to proven health care interventions. The use of unique capabilities to perform this task  large longitudinal databases to assist in trial design, access to a unique, credentialed network of physician investigators, and perspectives on clinical endpoint and outcomes objectives  makes Ingenix's position an important one.
I
NGENIX
Our primary means for sales distribution is a direct field sales force and an inside sales force of more than 200 professionals and a sales support group of more than 50 individuals. These people are focused on specific customers and market segments within our model across the pharmaceutical, employer, government, care provider, property and casualty, and payer market segments. Ingenix products are also supported and distributed through an array of alliance and business partnerships with other value-added resellers and technology vendors, who integrate and embed our products with their applications. Expanding these relationships provides a significant growth opportunity for Ingenix, and further positions our products as important solutions in each of these market segments.
 
The outlook for Ingenix in 2007 is very strong. The markets we serve are relatively underdeveloped and have an increasing need for high-quality, consistent information services and analytical applications. Political, economic and consumer-driven pressures will further expand the need for information and technology-based solutions to both reduce health care costs and improve quality outcomes. Ingenix is well positioned to take advantage of these market trends.
Against this backdrop, we see four primary drivers for our growth:
 
 
 
 
Each of these provides significant distribution opportunities for our growing portfolio of products and services and can materially expand our business year over year.
 
Operating margins for Ingenix have moved up significantly over the past five years to approximately 20 percent in 2006. We have strong and continuing upside leverage in a diversified business model.
During the past four years, Ingenix has invested significant capital to enhance and expand its technology solutions. As revenues from these investments grow, operating leverage will continue to produce expanding margins. Some of this will be invested back into the business, and we will continue to target margins at or above 20 percent.
 
The leadership team at i3 clearly established that business in 2005 as a leader in the CRO business. We have done this using the same basic approach UnitedHealth Group consistently uses to improve business  focus the business on the expanding and demanding needs of our customers; bring in people with energy, passion and talent; bring resources to bear from across the enterprise as necessary; and, apply basic business discipline to improve results. Specifically, we have upgraded and expanded our senior management team; focused the business on areas of specific clinical expertise (oncology, central nervous system, infectious and pulmonary disease) that have significant investment from pharmaceutical companies; developed strong international endocrinology trial capabilities (especially in Eastern Europe); merged educational services together with trial services and regulatory work; and, established a tighter level of integration and accountability with Ingenix, its parent company. We are continuing to invest in technology and global expansion of the business to meet the increasing market demand for global services and information.
 
Ingenix's mission includes developing and acquiring and then integrating the world's best-in-class health care information technology capabilities. We pursue combinations that make business sense and meet rigorous financial metrics relative to future value. If these criteria can be met, we expect to pursue acquisitions that expand the solution sets we have described above. We certainly believe that there are attractive acquisition candidates that meet our stringent internal return requirements.
I
NGENIX
B O
USINESS
VERVIEW
 
 
 
 
 
 
C
APABILITIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
O
VATIONS
M C
ARKET
HARACTERISTICS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
G P
ROWTH
AND
ERFORMANCE
 
 
 
 
 
 
O
VATIONS
Q A O
UESTIONS
AND
NSWERS
FROM
VATIONS
 
Ovations remains very optimistic about its opportunities. Over the past several years, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) has been administering some of the most significant Medicare changes in its history, having added a prescription drug benefit and increased the diversity of offerings. These changes, as well as the accelerating growth in the senior population, have provided opportunities for well-organized and focused companies to create strong public-private partnerships with federal and state governments to serve older Americans. Ovations brings to the federal government a robust national partner that shares its goals for continuing to modernize Medicare.
We are unique in our participation in the Medicare program on a national basis and across the broad spectrum of Medicare products  offering Medigap products that supplement traditional fee-for-service, health-plan-type programs under Medicare Advantage, prescription drug programs, and special offerings for chronically ill and dual-eligible beneficiaries. We also have proven capabilities in partnering with associations and nonprofit organizations  including AARP  to enhance the accessibility and affordability of insurance products. We offer a holistic, coordinated approach to serving the health care needs of elderly individuals with chronic diseases. Finally, the addition of a pharmacy benefit management (PBM) company, Prescription Solutions, in 2006 has significantly strengthened our ability to manage and direct pharmaceutical care for patients and customer groups.
This nationally based, holistic approach to the Medicare program has placed us in a leadership position. Ovations directly serves 8.8 million individuals with its various insurance products. We are the premier provider of services to the chronically ill through Evercare, the largest provider of Medigap coverage through our work with AARP, the largest provider of Medicare Advantage offerings for employers and individuals, and we serve a market-leading 4.5 million people in our Part D offerings.
We look to further expand each of our key product areas in 2007. Evercare will participate in a range of new options to improve care for Medicare beneficiaries with significant burdens of illness due to chronic disease, and as part of our focus on chronic care, we will continue to expand our hospice and palliative care programs, and will be in 15 markets by the end of 2007. Ovations anticipates expanding its market share in the Medicare Supplement market by adding an additional 150,000 lives. Our base Medicare Advantage offerings now cover more than 1.4 million people in all 50 states, and in 2007, we are expanding to 38 additional metropolitan markets. We will also continue to offer Medicare Advantage via private fee-for-service plans in 1,500 counties across the nation; our Part D program has added two new AARP-branded options; and, in 2007, our Prescription Solutions PBM will serve in excess of 11 million people  the vast majority being individuals 50 and older  and will process more than 300 million adjusted prescription claims. Our overall outlook is very positive.
 
The merger of PacifiCare and Ovations brought together two of the most highly regarded, senior-focused health care organizations in the country. The combination has enabled us to deepen our management team, expand our market and member reach, hone our customer service performance and strengthen our consumer brands and products.
Specifically, we have fully integrated our management, maintaining key talent from both legacy Ovations and PacifiCare management teams. Operating cost savings, systems integrations and vendor leveraging have already generated very significant run-rate synergies. During 2007, we will be working through the final stages of integrating our information systems.
O
VATIONS
We also consolidated our Medicare Advantage brands under the "SecureHorizons by UnitedHealthcare" brand for 2007 products, and combined our Part D products for the 2007 selling season  adding the former PacifiCare Enhanced and Saver products to our AARP-branded product portfolio. Clinically, we combined the best practices from the Evercare and PacifiCare to further strengthen our already state-of-the-art clinical model. And perhaps most significantly, the Prescription Solutions PBM has been an integral part of our success in the Part D offering  a success that we will build upon in 2007 as we consolidate and in-source our legacy Ovations PBM services.
 
The advent of Part D, the merger with PacifiCare and the continued growth of our core product portfolio combined to increase Ovations revenue from just over $9 billion in 2005 to more than $25 billion in 2006. We expect significant growth again in 2007, with organic revenue growth of 15 percent or more. Further, revenue and margin enhancement opportunities exist through in-sourcing key functions, including PBM services, while also providing cost-effective solutions for our members and partners. Longer term, our unique assets combined with favorable demographics and continuing demand for public/private partnerships position us to sustain revenue growth at a double-digit rate over the coming five-year period.
 
We are honored to be the health and well-being partner for AARP, the nation's largest consumer organization serving more than 36 million Americans over age 50. We currently serve nearly 6 million AARP members in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and U.S. territories. In 2006, we continue to broaden our offerings in support of AARP. Selected examples include: 1) a new set of comprehensive insurance offerings for 50- to 64-year-old individuals that is now in 21 states with continued expansion planned; 2) enrollment of more than 2.6 million Medicare Supplement members, with an estimated full-year 2006 growth in our standardized Medicare supplement policies of 130,000 members; and, 3) the addition of more than 3.2 million members to our AARP Part D product.
We are proud to be the only Part D sponsor whose plans, including two new plans for 2007, carry the endorsement of AARP. We have also enhanced our marketing efforts to incorporate expanded multicultural initiatives. Equally important, we have achieved membership growth while maintaining extremely high customer satisfaction rates and meeting or exceeding operational and administrative performance standards.
Clearly, we value the confidence AARP has placed in us over the past 10 years. With respect to contract status on the Medicare Supplement program, our company practice is not to comment on pending contract negotiations.
 
Based on historical experience, we expect a sizeable Medicare fee-for-service market, including Medigap coverage, to continue for the foreseeable future. For example, despite the increased focus on Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D, the first nine months of 2006 yielded our largest Medicare Supplement year-to-date sales ever. The legislation also expanded Medigap offerings to include two new Medicare supplement plans with modernized benefit packages. We have launched these two new offerings in 44 states and three territories.
Medicare Advantage plans continue to offer a broader benefit set to beneficiaries as well as a greater opportunity to tailor these offerings to local needs and preferences. The new range of offerings allows Medicare Advantage to expand geographically, provide rural-specific offerings and target offerings for specific patient populations.
The next five years hold the potential for continued significant growth at Ovations. In addition to these new opportunities, we see meaningful benefits from continued geographic expansions of our existing Medicare Advantage and Evercare product lines in the United States and ability to develop new health solutions for these members, our expanding distribution capabilities, our ability to help employers and their retirees find product solutions, and our proven record of taking programs approved by government and then making them better through the application of clinical, innovation, technology and marketing capabilities.
O
VATIONS
Medicare Advantage is a key component of Ovations' diversified portfolio of product offerings for seniors. SecureHorizons offers a suite of Medicare Advantage products including HMO, local and regional PPO, and private fee-for-service plans, while Evercare offers Special Needs Plans and institutional products. These plans offer value, choice and affordability while leveraging UnitedHealth Group's vast network resources and clinical and service capabilities.
 
We focus our attention on lowering the overall cost of health care and offering affordable, competitive and sustainable benefits relative to the established reimbursement rates. Excluding regional PPOs, these reimbursement rates are set on a county-specific basis and are risk adjusted to the acuity level of the membership enrolled. Beginning in 2007, the reimbursement rates become 100 percent risk adjusted, completing the transition from blended demographic and risk-adjusted rates and improving the matching of reimbursement levels with underlying health care costs.
We work with CMS to ensure there is appropriate matching of reimbursement levels to medical cost trends and changes in the health care status of our membership over the short term. We work with both CMS and Congress to ensure adequate and stable funding is available for the Medicare Advantage program over the long term. We continue to demonstrate that the Medicare Advantage program reduces cost-sharing and provides enhanced benefits to those enrolled in our plans.
In 2007, the industry will experience the initial and largest impact of phasing out the budget neutrality adjustment, resulting in minimal year-over-year rate increases. The impact of the phase-out will be lessened in future years. The transition to 100 percent risk-adjusted rates will allow for improvement in matching of revenues and medical expenses. We also expect that physicians and care providers will continue to improve the accuracy of their diagnosis coding and documentation, further improving the matching of individual reimbursement rates with underlying costs. For 2008, we project rate increases in the low- to mid-single-digit range for our SecureHorizons membership. We believe this level of reimbursement will be sufficient to allow us to continue to provide competitive benefits to our members and attain our operating margin targets.
 
We have consolidated all of our Medicare Advantage offerings and are phasing in a new brand in all of our markets  SecureHorizons by UnitedHealthcare.
SecureHorizons by UnitedHealthcare is now the largest program nationally serving more than 1.4 million individuals, and represents 20 years of experience in serving seniors. It offers the largest provider network with more than 500,000 physicians and care professionals and 4,700 hospitals, as well as personalized care management services that focus on providing a quality experience across the health care spectrum, from helping healthy seniors find preventive care to coordinating care for individuals with chronic conditions to offering care and support at the end of life.
We anticipate adding approximately 150,000 Medicare Advantage enrollees in 2007. Most of the growth will occur from January through April. Growth in the latter part of the year will be limited, given the impact of the federally imposed lock-in regulations that generally restrict new enrollments after April 1 to persons just turning 65 years of age and those eligible for participation in Evercare's special needs programs.
 
The growth in PFFS plans has been significant, primarily in markets where people have not previously had access to private Medicare plans. PFFS plans provide Medicare Advantage programs to seniors who otherwise would not be able to take advantage of the benefits they offer. These plans also contain fewer restrictions for the enrollee than HMOs or PPOs, and thus are an important component of our diversified product portfolio.
O
VATIONS
We believe, however, that this product is not sustainable in certain counties, given current county-specific reimbursement levels. Our long-lasting practice has been to operate products only where we can do so in a sustainable manner. As a result, we reviewed our entire PFFS portfolio following our integration with PacifiCare. We have decided to exit 150 counties for 2007, and we will modify plan designs in many more counties. Approximately 9,100 members will be affected by the county exits. At the same time, we will expand into 74 new counties where we believe we can offer attractive benefits while earning a fair return. In the long run, we will continue to work with CMS and Congress to find ways to evolve the PFFS program to ensure it will be sustainable over the long term.
 
There are many factors that impact Medicare Advantage capitation rates, including county-specific rates, demographics and the health care status of each member. Meaningful comparisons between Medicare Advantage capitation rates and fee-for-service Medicare expenses therefore become very difficult. In addition, the MedPAC study, and other similar studies, were based on 2006 rates. Given the nominal rate increase in 2007, any perceived differential between fee-for-service and Medicare Advantage would be significantly reduced. The budget-neutrality phase-out scheduled for the next several years will likely further reduce or eliminate any remaining market-specific differential.
Medicare Advantage plans provide significant value to beneficiaries through lower cost sharing and supplemental benefits when compared to traditional Medicare. Recent comments by CMS suggest the average member in a Medicare Advantage program is receiving $82 per month in improved benefits when compared to a traditional fee-for-service system. We continue to focus on lowering the overall cost of providing health care to Medicare beneficiaries and improving the efficiency of our operations. This will enable us to continue to offer competitive benefits and produce appropriate returns as reimbursement levels fluctuate over time.
 
Addressing the needs of the ever-growing numbers of people who require chronic care is vital to providing high-quality and affordable health care. Four distinct types of chronic problems (multiple chronic illness, significant functional disability, frailty associated with advanced age, and end-of-life) are present in millions of people in the United States and account for about 68 percent of the medical costs for Medicare and long-term-care Medicaid programs.
Evercare's unique capability and demonstrated success with in-home assessment and chronic care management, regardless of payer or living setting, results in a diverse and robust product array that is applicable across a vast geography. Evercare will expand its reach and offerings to these four groups of individuals needing chronic care through:
 
 
O
VATIONS
 
 
First, from the federal government's perspective, the Part D program has been a tremendous success. While initial estimates of program costs were estimated in the $720 billion range over the next decade, competitive market forces have resulted in actual costs being far less  projected to be in the $500 billion range. CMS, for example, has indicated a $13 billion savings to the current 2006 federal budget due in large part to Part D cost savings versus earlier estimates.
At the same time, the Part D Program is providing Medicare beneficiaries with essential prescription drug benefits, significantly influencing the quality of life of millions of Americans. Before Part D, about 16 million Medicare beneficiaries did not have prescription drug coverage, and many had to make tough decisions when it came to prescription drugs. In fact, surveys showed that 37 percent of older Americans without prescription drug coverage said they either did not fill a prescription or skipped doses because they could not afford the cost of the drugs. Now, with the addition of Part D, more than 38 million seniors and people with disabilities have some form of drug coverage.
The Part D program has become particularly popular with seniors. In fact, a recent J.D. Powers survey indicated that of 3,400 beneficiaries surveyed, more than 75 percent of seniors were either "delighted" or "pleased" with their Part D coverage.
From an Ovations perspective, the program has been very successful. Part D is clearly the most successful start-up venture in company history. Investing more than $75 million in 2005, prior to enrolling our first member, was not without risk. Now, with 5.8 million people enrolled in our PDP or MAPD plans, a 2006 revenue stream of $6 billion, an estimated $12 billion in prescription savings for our members, margins in the upper end of their projected 3 percent to 4 percent range, and the sense of accomplishment from helping millions of seniors confront the challenges of understanding this complex new program, the Part D program is a tremendous success for Ovations.
 
The federal government created this new Medicare benefit, and companies such as ours responded with innovative plan designs and price points that help improve the sustainability of the benefit in future years. The 2007 bids reflect our belief that competitive Part D products can continue to be offered on a sustainable and profitable basis.
Not only will our 2007 pricing be very competitive, with a reduction in per member per month yield in the area of 10 percent to 15 percent, our offerings will reflect multiple product designs that will be attractive not only to our existing members but to a broad array of new members and/or individuals switching from competitor plans. Our portfolio of five Part D plans has been diligently designed to address the full spectrum of beneficiaries' needs  including very low-cost options, a plan that bridges the coverage gap, plans with a comprehensive formulary that includes 100 percent of the drugs covered by the Medicare Part D program, and plans that include a bonus list of commonly used drugs not covered by CMS.
As the largest national provider of Part D plans, we take our responsibility to dually eligible and other low-income beneficiaries very seriously. We are pleased to have the broadest geographic coverage, providing services in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and five U.S. territories. We have plans priced below the benchmark in all 34 regions, and we will retain our 2006 dual-eligible enrollment, as well as receive additional new dually-eligible assigned members in 2007.
In summary, our product offerings place us in an optimum position. Our offerings will deliver affordability and value on a sustainable basis to consumers and the government, while still carrying sufficient pricing to enable a reasonable return to shareholders commensurate with the risks of this program.
O
VATIONS
Even though there were many PDP offerings in 2006, the vast majority of beneficiaries selected coverage from just a handful of plans. Our focus is to make this choice easy for consumers by continuing to provide Part D plans that are affordable, simple in design, and offer the high quality they deserve. We will also continue to work to ensure that Medicare beneficiaries understand the Prescription Drug Plan, and can make informed decisions when selecting a Part D plan sponsor. We are particularly focused on reaching individuals with lower incomes through direct mail and community events to let them know about the availability of extra financial help. In addition, we will continue our efforts to make sure caregivers  whether they are a spouse, adult child, family member or another loved one  understand Part D and assist their loved ones in choosing a plan that best meets their needs.
 
We formulated our Part D benefit design and pricing using a methodical underwriting process that involved pharmaceutical, financial, actuarial, clinical and marketing experts. We utilized a robust set of data that included information garnered from our current Medicare Part D and Medicare Advantage Prescription Drug Plan beneficiaries, our retiree membership, and other proprietary sources. Our bids were price-tested in several ways and reflected what we would anticipate to be our very strong assets. In 2006, our process operated as expected, providing a valuable product for consumers offered in a financially sound and sustainable way. We expect 2007 will be no different.
With the success of the AARP product, which garnered approximately 3.2 million members in 2006, we looked to offer stability and resultant minimal changes to the benefits of the existing AARP MedicareRx Plan members, where premiums were kept very similar to 2006. Also, we provided a full range of plan options.
Three plans are offered to our members under the AARP brand name, including the 2006 AARP MedicareRx Plan; a new, low-cost deductible plan called AARP MedicareRx - Saver; and a plan with generic drugs in the donut hole and a bonus drug list, called AARP MedicareRx - Enhanced. Two other plans, UnitedHealth Rx Basic and UnitedHealth Rx Extended, are offered through a variety of distribution channels including brokers and senior-oriented insurance carriers.
Valuable features shared across all 2007 stand-alone Part D plans offered through Ovations include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key features of the three AARP MedicareRx Plans are:
AARP MedicareRx Plan
 
 
 
O
VATIONS
AARP MedicareRx Plan  Enhanced
 
 
 
 
 
AARP MedicareRx Plan  Saver
 
 
In addition, we are offering two plans for our varying broker, senior-oriented insurance carriers, and other distribution partners, as well as varying plans for employer groups.
 
 
 
Our formulary was designed to provide as much member choice stability from year to year and is streamlined across all of our Part D plans so that regardless of the plan that enrollees choose, they will have access to every brand-name prescription drug or its generic version covered by Medicare Part D.
In particular, the original AARP MedicareRx Plan and new AARP MedicareRx Plan - Enhanced offer a formulary that includes 100 percent of the drugs covered by the Medicare Part D program. Additionally, the AARP MedicareRx Plan - Enhanced gives members coverage through the "coverage gap," and includes additional drugs not typically covered by Medicare Part D, such as some prescription strength vitamins, Alprazolam, Lorazepam, Temazepam and others. Ovations has also employed a new cost-savings strategy that we think will be tremendously helpful for our members. Members who utilize mail-order services are able to receive a 90-day supply of Tier 1 generic drugs with one copayment and will receive $15 off a 90-day supply of Tier 2 and 3 brand-name drugs.
 
We consistently seek to operate a diversified platform of Medicare products with each product being a market leader in its class. Moreover, we respect our customers and the choices they make. We believe that seniors are looking for choice and value, and we are best positioned by offering a complete portfolio of products and services. We continue to offer educational materials and services to inform seniors of all of their options.
Offering Part D as a marketing lead is inconsistent with the design and intent of the Part D program and, in our minds, would not be appropriate. We operate our Part D plan as a distinct enterprise and strive to continue to offer affordable, cost-effective plans to the Medicare eligible population.
At UnitedHealth Group, all of our businesses are expected to stand on their own, covering their costs of capital. Our process also takes into account the fact that future changes in regulatory or marketplace dynamics may shift demand in unanticipated ways. Industry experience indicates that reliance on a cross-switching strategy has typically not resulted in sustainable results.
O
VATIONS
We are pleased with our pricing and product positioning of our low premium plan, which is one of the five lowest cost plans in 32 regions, as well as of our other plans, which are very competitively priced and designed when compared to our competitors' plans. The offering of a broad product portfolio  including a low-cost, no-deductible plan; reasonably priced plans with broad formularies and attractive benefits; and a plan providing generic coverage in the donut hole  will significantly enhance our market opportunities.
 
2007 will be another year of growth for the Ovations Part D business, the extent of which will depend on several environmental and competitive factors that we continue to analyze. While the marketing period for 2007 started October 1, actual enrollments for most members are only allowed by CMS from November 15 through December 31, for a January 1, 2007 effective date. This shortened window means that we are intensely focused on the areas of member growth noted above. We view the pool of potential growth in three key areas:
 
 
 
Of course, offsetting this, we would anticipate that through death and attrition, we will lose approximately 450,000 members a year. Combining these factors, many of which are still very fluid, we would anticipate that we may add another half-million members (net) in 2007.
 
We expect to receive a proportionate share of members who were auto-assigned in 2006 to companies in regions that are no longer under the benchmark, as well as of any new members who qualify for dual-eligible or low-income subsidy (LIS) status. We would expect that the favorable trend of dual-eligible and LIS membership gravitating to an AARP-branded plan will continue in 2007. In 2006, more than 600,000 dual-eligible or LIS members beyond our initial auto-assignments switched from a competitor plan to an Ovations plan.
 
The initial launch in 2006 and 2007 has been focused on individual seniors, with strong government assistance in automatically enrolling and assigning lower income seniors to Part D plans. This includes approximately 6 million lower income beneficiaries, the more than 5 million people already in a Medicare Advantage plan, and the 17 million people not in those categories who do not receive employer-subsidized retiree health benefits today. In 2008 and beyond, we expect strong focus on the last large segment of those eligible for the drug benefit, the 7 million employer group lives, as employers seriously consider modifying their current coverage for pharmaceutical benefits and take advantage of tax incentives in the Part D benefit designed to assist employers in covering drug benefits for their retirees.
O
VATIONS
Part D provides members with insurance coverage on the first $2,250 ($2,400 in 2007) of their annual prescription drug costs. Premiums are received ratably on a monthly basis over the one-year benefit contract period. After the $2,250 initial benefit limit is reached, members are required to cover 100 percent of their annual prescription drug costs up to $5,100 ($5,450 in 2007). As a result of this benefit design, Part D insurers will realize disproportionately higher claims during the first half of the benefit contract year. As the accounting rules do not accommodate interim period deferral of medical costs, we have been required to report uneven medical cost patterns in our quarterly financial results for Part D.
Specifically, in 2007, we anticipate a similar seasonal pattern to 2006, with recognized losses in the first and second quarters which then progressively reverse in the second half of the year. For 2008, however, the seasonal pattern will become more acute  with significantly higher losses in Q1 and significantly higher profits at the end of the year. This is due to the widening of the CMS risk corridor bands in 2008, which are utilized under the current accounting rules to mitigate the impact of the seasonality issue. Of note, this matter is a timing issue and in no way impacts our full-year program profitability.
 
For 2006, we estimate that just less than 28 percent of our members will reach the donut hole, of which 50 percent are dual-eligible and low-income subsidy members (who because of the subsidy do not feel any impact from the donut hole). We proactively work with individuals who hit the donut hole to educate them about generic or preferred brand-name alternatives and advise them on potential poly-pharmacy opportunities, whereby they and their physicians can consolidate or eliminate certain prescriptions.
 
Seniors are very rational users of prescription medicines. Overall, we have achieved a 58 percent generic utilization rate in our stand-alone Part D plans. For example, when Zocor went generic (as Simvastatin), 80 percent of the brand use in our membership base was converted to generic in the first four weeks. Similarly, 32 percent of our seniors purchase Tier 2 lower cost brands compared to 9 percent who use more expensive Tier 3 brands. Further, 2007 is the first year in which our AARP product offerings will include incentives for mail service. Based on experience with SecureHorizons, we believe that many seniors will take advantage of this opportunity to save money and benefit from the convenience of home delivery. Finally, fewer of our voluntary enrollees hit the coverage gap than originally expected. We suspect this might in part reflect consumer actions to delay or avoid reaching the donut hole.
 
We are working proactively with CMS, other Part D insurers and state governments to reconcile benefit payments during the initial member assignment confusion of dual-eligible members. To date, this reconciliation process is progressing smoothly, and we do not anticipate a significant financial impact to result from this process.
 
We are obviously attracted to broaden our capabilities to include a senior-focused full-service PBM:
 
 
O
VATIONS
Prescription Solutions has two state-of-the-art mail-service facilities in Carlsbad, California, and Overland Park, Kansas, and has more than 15 years of experience in pharmacy benefit management. Our PBM has been a consistent trend setter, with expertise in claims processing, rebate administration and cutting-edge clinical and utilization management capabilities. We are also pleased that the new benefit plans for our PDP and MAPD members will offer copayment incentives to our members for utilizing mail.
 
The various Medicare Supplement products we offer with AARP provide very useful and reliable coverage for many seniors. As such, they should continue to grow. Currently, we project our AARP-branded offerings have and will continue to increase active membership, adding a projected 130,000 and 150,000 individuals in 2006 and 2007, respectively. Our market share of the Medicare Supplement market has risen over the past few years to approximately 26 percent.
We aim to offer seniors a wide range of supplemental products that cover varying coverage and price points. We are the only organization to offer the full range of 10 standardized Medicare Supplement products that CMS has approved (termed A through J) in all 50 states and U.S. territories. These products cover varying levels of the coinsurance and deductible gaps that seniors are exposed to in the base Medicare program. In addition, we have begun to make available the AARP Medicare Supplement products to the employer market. We have also added the two standardized plans that resulted from the December 2003 Medicare reform bill (Plans K and L). These plans offer beneficiaries a lower premium-based entry into Medicare Supplement products than the existing plans. In addition to the various standardized Medicare Supplement offerings, we also market a range of hospital indemnity insurance products to AARP members. These plans generally offer scheduled fixed payments to people (e.g., $100 per day) who are hospitalized to cover their uncovered medical costs and/or ancillary expenses related to their hospital stay.
As government funding levels have increased for the competing Medicare Advantage products, the market focus has shifted somewhat to Medicare Advantage, but we anticipate that a viable market will remain for Medicare Supplement products for the foreseeable future.
 
More than 93 percent of the December 2005 Medicare Supplement prescription drug plan members stayed with the AARP Medicare Supplement program. Further, in 2006 more than 80 percent of the people in this group who opted to choose a Part D plan, chose the AARP-endorsed Part D plan. (In addition, more than 780,000 of the 2 million non-drug-plan Medicare Supplement members enrolled in our Part D plan.)
 
The need for an enduring government-private sector partnership will intensify as government programs require the innovation, technology and administrative capabilities that typically arise within the private sector. To justify our participation in such government programs, we have established a minimum hurdle level of a 3 percent to 5 percent operating margin for an established market or program, depending on the program or market. Performance is often better than this established hurdle in certain markets or with certain products. In aggregate, our consolidated level of return adequately compensates us for the risks inherent in these programs and provides an acceptable and reasonable return on capital.
With regard to Part D, our 2006 operating profits are projected to slightly exceed our expectations in the first year of the program. Looking forward, we are comfortable that the Part D program will continue to provide returns that match or exceed our established minimum hurdle rate for government business.
O
VATIONS
We greatly welcome political focus on new approaches to improving the efficiency, sustainability and performance of Medicare because we are convinced that the only way to effectively address these challenges is for companies and government to work together, combining the strengths of each partner in the modernization of Medicare. Our capabilities and our focus put us in what we believe is a unique position to help address the health care challenges in any legislative environment. We are a national diversified company offering the broad spectrum of Medicare products. We have real-world experience that will be valuable to the new Congress and, in 2009, a new administration as they look to resolve those health care issues in the most cost-effective way possible. We take a unique approach to Medicare with our breadth of both traditional and new Medicare programs that serve people with a broad range of economic resources and needs. Medicare Advantage, Part D and our other Medicare programs are dedicated to delivering quality care and saving the government and individuals many millions of dollars. If Congress decides that changes need to be made to the program, we will continue to work with them in the interests of our members and the Medicare program.
 
We have made a major commitment to meeting a broader range of consumer needs, defined not only by the traditional Medicare 65+ population, but also by those who are younger with emerging health and lifestyle needs that are largely unmet. The Baby Boom generation has redefined every social institution they have encountered, and they are also redefining health and wellness. UnitedHealth Group businesses already have close to 15 million customers ages 50 and above, and we are actively working to understand what additional new products and services we can offer to the 87 million people over age 50 to help them enhance their health, wealth and security.
We are developing a portfolio of products and services with varying benefit levels and price points that will be attractive to the Baby Boom population. These include everything from supplemental products that help with non-covered medical and ancillary expenses to full comprehensive PPO plans with prescription drug benefits.
We will also continue to look for new and creative ways to deal with health care challenges that have a direct link to our approach to health care. This will potentially include new products as well as new partnerships with employers, union organizations, health care providers and nonprofit associations.
O
VATIONS
B O
USINESS
VERVIEW
 
 
 
C
APABILITIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AC
MERI
HOICE
M C
ARKET
HARACTERISTICS
 
 
 
G P
ROWTH
AND
ERFORMANCE
 
 
 
 
 
AC
MERI
HOICE
Q A AC
UESTIONS
AND
NSWERS
FROM
MERI
HOICE
 
We consider a variety of factors such as the state's philosophy, approach and related experience, and consistency of support for its Medicaid program in terms of service innovation and funding; the population base in the state; the willingness of the physician/provider community to participate with the AmeriChoice Personal Care Model; and the presence of community-based organizations we can work with to meet the needs of our members. Using these criteria, we entered Michigan several years ago, and last year we competed for and won a contract to operate a health plan in Texas, which became operational in September of 2006. Over the past two years we have also been awarded disease management contracts in Georgia, Florida and Washington. We are currently evaluating other possible opportunities.
Earlier this year, we were selected to participate in the revamped TennCare program beginning in the spring of 2007. Although the TennCare program has had past challenges, we believe that Governor Bredesen and the TennCare staff have formulated a well-conceived and carefully thought-out program, which has won the support of the State Legislature.
 
We are pleased to have won an expanded opportunity with Tennessee, and believe this will be a successful program. However, several other new market bid opportunities have been very price sensitive recently. Our commitment to operating discipline precluded us from submitting proposals where the underlying financial structure is not sustainable.
 
Budget pressure can actually serve to increase demand for AmeriChoice's expertise and services. Health plans and services managed by AmeriChoice can help states improve fiscal control and outlook because our focus on preventive services and care programs helps people manage serious and chronic conditions, thereby enhancing their health status and helping them avoid more serious health complications. Moreover, we assume the administrative burden of operating programs that government agencies lack the staffing and expertise to handle.
We are clearly selective in terms of the states with which we partner, focusing on those that consistently place priority importance on providing health care benefits for their lower income and vulnerable populations. Accordingly, AmeriChoice is appropriately funded for 2006 and 2007 to care for the individuals in the key states it serves.
 
Short term, yes. Reductions in both eligibility criteria and benefit designs allow states to cut costs while continuing to support a sustainable financial structure that meet actuarial soundness requirements.
Long term, we think eligibility will broaden as legislators search for effective vehicles to provide basic health care to at least some portion of the more than 45 million Americans who are currently uninsured  over and above the 50 million current participants in Medicaid and other state health programs. These two segments of our population require special resources and services. We are well positioned to participate and serve these needs.
AC
MERI
HOICE
We operate health plans in 13 states and are not heavily concentrated in any one state or program. We serve anywhere from more than 300,000 people in Arizona to 30,000 people in Nebraska. Our size and mix of business among these states provides a favorable outlook for us in 2006 and 2007. We also have non-risk management service operations in four states, including disease management programs in Georgia and serving as a sub-contractor to another company in Florida. In addition, we recently were awarded a chronic care management contract in Washington, and we are exploring opportunities for expanding these operations to other states and localities.
 
Yes. There are categories of eligibility assigned to individuals who are enrolled in our health plans. The category of eligibility is typically associated with health status and a specific level of reimbursement. For instance, the TANF (Temporary Assistance to Needy Families) population comprises primarily young women and children. For this group, we focus our Personal Care Model activities toward preventive health outreach and access to care programs for members with chronic conditions. Other subpopulations include: SSI (Social Security Insurance), ABD (Aged, Blind and Disabled), DDD (Division for Developmentally Disabled) and GA (General Assistance). Individuals in these categories are typically chronically ill and require multifaceted, highly integrated and complex approaches to care management.
Beyond the administrative nomenclature, we utilize sophisticated tools to stratify people based on their risk profiles. These tools allow the AmeriChoice clinical staff to immediately identify individuals who may need care management services or are in need of social resources. We also work directly with the member's primary care physician to help determine medical interventions. Another unique tool allows us to examine historical (up to 5 years) prescription medication use upon enrollment of new ABD and DDD members to determine appropriate placement in our care and disease management programs.
We have specialized disease management programs for asthma, diabetes, congestive heart failure, sickle cell disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, pneumonia, special needs, lead poisoning and HIV/AIDS. Separately, our Healthy First Steps program for high-risk obstetrical and maternal management is based on the premise that early identification and assessment of high-risk pregnancies and subsequent care by an obstetrician will help minimize premature deliveries and complications with premature babies.
 
Our medical cost trends are below those of the UnitedHealthcare commercial lines of business, and our price (revenue) trends generally run parallel to those costs. In general, state Medicaid reimbursement trends tend to be lower than rates paid to physicians/providers participating in commercial programs. The lower medical costs reflect, in part, the effectiveness of our Personal Care Model, which focuses on specific health issues and needs, and our ability to target resources to meet these specific individual needs.
We expect state reimbursement rates to advance modestly around 4 percent to 5 percent on average in 2006 and 2007. We will manage effectively within this level, and we expect to produce an acceptable return on our capital and to generate solid margins in 2006 and 2007.
 
All of UnitedHealth Group's businesses work to facilitate and advance health and well-being, so our fundamental goals and values are the same. AmeriChoice serves a distinct customer segment that tends to have unique needs. The people we serve live in areas that are often medically underserved and where a consistent relationship with the medical community or a care provider is less likely. They also tend to face significant social and economic challenges. Our medical management approach recognizes these factors. In particular, we provide hands-on clinical and social case management for the most prevalent and potentially dangerous conditions  asthma, diabetes, congestive heart failure and high-risk pregnancies  and in each situation help members and their families manage these conditions for optimal outcomes. We also take a very proactive approach toward preventive health services, especially the services and screenings that are so important for children. All of these actions address critical issues for the populations we serve.
AC
MERI
HOICE
Medical cost issues in the risk business can arise from a variety of sources.
The first stems from the nature of enrollment and disenrollment in our health plans. Almost all of our plans operate in states where members are assigned to us and, at times, are retroactively enrolled; in these situations, we immediately assume an established history of impaired health and substantial costs, although we receive only standard reimbursement levels. This problem is compounded in states that do not require members to remain with their plans for a minimum amount of time, allowing an individual to enroll in a competing plan before we can fully manage their health condition.
Second, the costs related to a few provider systems are based on percent-of-charges, particularly in the outpatient services area, so changes in hospital rates can increase our costs. We are moving away from these agreements and, to the extent they cannot be eliminated, we look to obtain charge master protection. We focus intently on helping individuals to seek care from network providers.
In unusual situations, such as occurred in Arizona in 2006, the state will mandate an increase in provider fee payments retrospectively. This required us to reprocess previously paid claims and increase our payments to those physicians for their services. While the state estimated the effect of the increase and raised our rates accordingly, the actual cost increase has turned out to be much greater than they estimated. We are currently in discussions with our customer regarding potential relief for this price/cost mismatch.
Finally, the Medicaid population tends to have a significant incidence of high-risk pregnancies. These members are more expensive to manage during their pregnancies, have longer lengths of stay prior to and following delivery, and are more likely to have babies needing care in a high-intensity neonatal unit. The need for neonatal ICU services can be substantial within the population we serve. We have a high-quality, unique program to address the problems of high-risk pregnancy.
 
Our starting point is facilitating access to quality care resources that align with the unique needs of those we serve. We utilize a wide array of tools to monitor and effectively manage the costs associated with medical care. These tools include internally developed capabilities as well as products acquired from Ingenix, another UnitedHealth Group company, and other outside vendors.
Our focus is on claims analyses, including comparing member treatment against a database of evidence-based medicine and best practice models to identify individuals with chronic and acute conditions (e.g., asthma, diabetes and congestive heart failure), rank them by risk, and identify opportunities for improved care. A variety of analytical software gives us timely access to claims data and medical cost trends and enables us to produce reports that help us to implement strategies with the greatest opportunity for clinical and case management intervention as well as cost reduction. In certain instances, telemedicine is used to increase access to case management for homebound members. Finally, through our centers of excellence provider networks, we continuously identify physicians and hospitals that demonstrate superior outcomes and partner with them under special agreements to provide services to our members.
Our annual cost trends consistently run lower than those of the commercial line of business. While the trends vary across markets and category of service, we have generally seen medical trends in the mid-single-digit range. The areas where cost trends have been the highest include physician and outpatient services. We believe this indicates the positive impact of our disease management programs with increased utilization of primary care physicians and specialists and lower demand for emergency department and inpatient services.
AmeriChoice runs an aggregate medical care ratio in the high 80s, reflecting the diversity of population cohorts that we serve, including people with complex chronic illnesses who are affiliated with specialized state programs. It is our job to address states' needs wherever practicable, rather than limiting our focus to their younger, healthier population groups (which frequently can show medical care ratios in the low 80 percent range). We believe this approach builds a balanced and sustainable business over time.
AmeriChoice generates strong returns on capital by effectively managing care and cost for our customers in these programs while leveraging UnitedHealth Group's low-cost operating structure and efficient administrative capabilities.
AC
MERI
HOICE
We will experience an increase of approximately 170,000 members in 2006. We recorded substantial organic growth in a number of key markets, including New Jersey, Florida, Wisconsin and Michigan, and we gained approximately 110,000 members from UnitedHealthcare's acquisition of Physicians Health Plan in Michigan and John Deere Health Care. In 2007, we expect to benefit significantly from our new health plan in Texas, which began operations in September, and in Tennessee, where our new program will become operational in the spring of 2007.
A potential growth area for us is in Special Needs Plans, where our expertise in facilitating and managing care for the chronically ill and individuals with complex conditions and multiple diagnoses gives us a competitive advantage. We already operate such plans in parallel with our regular Medicaid and SCHIP operations in New York, New Jersey and Arizona, and will become operational in January 2007 with an SNP in Eastern Tennessee, where the John Deere health plan we assumed management of has 16,000 of an estimated 70,000 eligible individuals already enrolled.
 
We are very cautious, as we have seen situations where buyers seem to use a much lower cost of capital than we would apply at AmeriChoice. Over the past number of years, AmeriChoice has participated in this consolidation, albeit in a relatively modest way, in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Michigan, as well as via UnitedHealthcare's acquisition of John Deere Health Care. Like all UnitedHealth Group businesses, we remain open to acquisition opportunities that meet our strategic and financial return criteria, but do not view them as the principal approach to sustain growth or earnings. Today we are particularly attentive to internal growth opportunities and the expansion of our non-risk disease management programs.
 
AmeriChoice has an active and, we believe, effective anti-fraud and abuse program focused on prevention, detection and recovery of fraudulent or abusive claims and activities by our health care providers or members. The program consists of both prospective (prepayment) and retrospective (post-payment) review of claims, using sophisticated fraud and abuse detection software, as well as our own Special Investigations Unit, Ingenix Fraud Detection Services and outside vendors for special anti-fraud projects. We also have a toll-free Anti-Fraud Hotline that is publicized and available to employees, providers and members to report abusive or fraudulent activities.
 
In most of the states where we have health plans, pharmaceuticals are part of the benefit package we are responsible for providing (although in some states certain medications, usually anti-virals and those for the control of behavioral health conditions, are provided by the state). Our focus is on the development of cost-effective Prescription Drug Lists, a vigorous program of encouraging the prescribing of generics wherever appropriate and programs designed to ensure proper adherence to prescribed therapies and regimens by members, particularly those with chronic conditions that require maintenance medications.
To the extent we are successful in identifying members who can benefit from drug therapy, the increased medication costs for those members are, over time, offset by lower costs for emergency room visits and hospitalizations, thereby lowering our overall medical cost trends. Our analytical software, drug utilization review process and close working relationships among our disease and case managers, staff pharmacists and the members themselves, also contribute significantly to our success in this area.
AC
MERI
HOICE
The biggest differentiator between AmeriChoice and publicly traded Medicaid MCOs is our ability to leverage the extensive resources and expertise of UnitedHealth Group. We believe our size and association with UnitedHealth Group enables us to realize economies of scale not available to smaller players in this dynamic market, and our geographic scope gives us the benefit of broad risk diversification. Additionally, our clinical care facilitation and management efforts, centered on the Personal Care Model program, are unique and provide distinctive components to our services. Our customer service and claims processing operations use the advanced technology and best practice experience of Uniprise, giving our members and providers access to these same services as UnitedHealth Group's commercial sector customers.
Similarly, we draw on the expertise of UnitedHealth Networks for our contracting and network servicing functions, giving us the purchasing power of the full UnitedHealth Group customer base.
We also take advantage of UnitedHealth Group's unparalleled technology, services, programs and investments to complement our own proprietary, Medicaid-specific software applications to track utilization and costs at a very detailed level. These systems allow us to respond quickly to emerging trends with appropriate member outreach and, where appropriate, with modifications to our internal operations including the redeployment of staff.
AC
MERI
HOICE
B O
USINESS
VERVIEW
 
 
 
 
 
C
APABILITIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UH
NITED
EALTHCARE
 
M C
ARKET
HARACTERISTICS
 
 
 
 
G P
ROWTH
AND
ERFORMANCE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UH
NITED
EALTHCARE
Q A UH
UESTIONS
AND
NSWERS
FROM
NITED
EALTHCARE
 
Health care and U.S. labor market trends are driving a continued need to develop a broad set of affordable products and models that give members access to products that are portable beyond their employment relationship. In five years, we envision a market that includes a broader spectrum of affordable products that will be tailored to individual consumer demographics and attitudes. We additionally expect to see higher levels of portability between employer group coverage and individual coverage to address the growing need for non-employer-based options. We are actively researching consumer product versus price preferences (across multiple consumer segments) and developing more affordable and portable products for 2007 and beyond.
As the leader in the consumer-driven health (CDH) arena, we are uniquely positioned to offer advanced consumer-driven options that include unique plan design features, market-leading data and decision support to drive more informed member decisions, and clinical management and related outreach programs that generate improved health outcomes and cost. Future UnitedHealthcare products will address affordability with new choice models that provide consumers with strong incentives to comply with evidence-based medicine guidelines and use the most efficient and effective providers by episode of care, and thus generate improved health status. These consumer actions and results (motivated by product design) will be rewarded with short- and long-term financial incentives. As an organization we are focused on developing close consumer relationships through unique products, service models and positive member outcomes.
 
We anticipate balanced, profitable growth over an extended time frame. Our expectation is for sustained revenue growth in the 8 percent to 12 percent range, with individual year results varying based on market conditions. Annual increases in U.S. health care consumption and medical inflation create a natural lift in the top line, as we participate in a moderately inflationary business in a flat to only slightly inflationary U.S. economy. At the same time, we expect steady increases in market share over time driven by our ability to differentiate our value proposition in each market segment  individual, small business, mid-sized employers and public sector organizations. Currently, we are projecting 2007 organic growth in the range of 400,000 to 500,000 consumers, with the bulk of the gains coming in fee-based arrangements.
 
There are hundreds of payers, insurers and intermediaries in America  forming a much larger competitive universe than the publicly traded companies alone. We are consistently successful and grow our business by gaining share at the local market level against varying competitors based on the geography in question. Our products effectively build off of being more affordable, more accessible, easier to use and of higher quality.
Generally we have gained against competitors because of our business approach and key capabilities. They include:
 
 
 
 
 
UH
NITED
EALTHCARE
The industry is typically characterized by cycles of regional competition rather than an overall linked, synchronized national cycle. Selected geographies and segments have experienced competitive pricing pressure largely from not-for-profit Blues beginning in the second half of 2005 and continuing through 2006. Our pricing position remains disciplined and tied to our projected cost trends, which continue to moderate due to the success of our health care affordability initiatives.
To reduce our exposure to the short-term pricing environment, we have focused on driving a long-term affordability agenda, product innovation and market segmentation. For instance, we have a highly integrated CDH plan offering that provides the customer with substantially lower costs over a longer period of time, as opposed to near-term pricing concessions. In addition, we focus on the value attributed to our extensive wellness programs and our UnitedHealth Premium
designation program that helps consumers navigate the health care system in search of high-quality service at an appropriate price. We have broadened our base of offerings to assess new markets such as student insurance, hospital-employers and private equity, as well as the market for essential benefits, through our Basics product line.
 
For commercial risk business, we currently expect to lose about 55,000 members for the full year, which is composed of organic losses of 465,000 offset by 410,000 lives added through acquisition. The organic losses include two Public Sector accounts with high medical care ratios totaling 100,000 lives; funding conversions and attrition of 90,000 lives; and losses of 130,000 people attributable to the repositioning of our PacificLife, PacifiCare individual and small group business, and AMS individual and small group business. The remaining 145,000 in organic fully insured losses are attributed to the broader competitive environment.
On the other hand, we have benefited from outstanding performance in our fee-based business, where we will gain 645,000 members organically for the year. We are exceptionally pleased with this result, as it validates the breadth and depth of our networks, clinical value, management capabilities and exceptional service. These gains include one large public sector account win totaling approximately 300,000 people.
 
We expect stable to perhaps slightly improved margins at UnitedHealthcare, largely driven by our ability to further leverage and improve on operating innovations and focused cost disciplines, rather than any expansion around the medical care ratio. Indeed, our current margin reflects some of this operating leverage, as well as the underlying strong capabilities of our enterprise and its assets.
Our medical care ratio, which is 79 percent to 80 percent on commercial insured business, is within our target range given the current business mix of insured and self-funded products across a base that is increasingly focused to mid-and small-sized employer-customers. It is our belief that future margin expansion for our business will be driven by productivity, operational scalability and, potentially, by business mix, rather than by generating comparatively lower medical care ratios on a same-client, year-over-year basis.
We have seen consistently positive internal metrics reflecting dramatic improvements in the consistency of both local market and national business line performance. Our approaches and consistent management disciplines, embodied in a franchise model, have substantially reduced the level of margin variation by product among our businesses in more than 40 geographic markets.
The operating margin for UnitedHealthcare is not recorded separately, but is embedded in the Health Care Services segment, which includes three businesses of UnitedHealth Group  UnitedHealthcare, Ovations and AmeriChoice. This group of companies has an aggregate margin of approximately 8 percent this year. We see the overall Health Care Services reporting segment sustaining a 7 percent to 10 percent operating margin over time, again dependent on business mix.
UH
NITED
EALTHCARE
We will grow our customer base in 2007 and expect stable to improved margins as we continue to make advancements in our technology and affordability initiatives. We anticipate providing services to approximately 400,000 to 500,000 more people by year-end 2007 versus this year, with the bulk of the gains coming in fee-based products.
Our long-standing and disciplined approach to pricing is straightforward  we price to our estimated future costs. For risk-based products that means we are currently pricing our 2007 renewing business at around a 7.5 percent to 8.0 percent increase after taking into account benefit buydowns and changes in customer demographics. This is at our current estimated net cost trend. Our approach provides an allowance for an increase in health system utilization should the anticipated economic expansion materialize, as well as for unexpected utilization or new product issues that would broadly increase health care spending.
We expect a relatively stable medical care ratio in 2007, generally around 79 percent to 80 percent on commercial insured business. We believe that modest overall operating margin expansion is possible as we expand fee-based products and continue to drive administrative service advances and cost decreases in both insured and self-funded products and their related services.
 
We believe our ability to understand trend is excellent  and our precision gets better every year. Except for our more recent acquisitions, we have a single reserve system and process that draws on a single provider network and a single clinical data warehouse. That data resource contains demographic data, clinical encounter data, pharmaceutical data and lab services data, all of which is processed more quickly and more electronically each year, improving visibility to claim trends. Furthermore, we are using Six Sigma-like processes to advance continuous improvement on these data inputs.
Our forward trend uses historical information plus a proprietary Ingenix pipeline analysis of the per member per month impact of new drugs, technologies and therapies that will emerge in the next two years, including all increases and decreases in costs for procedures that will be related to the new therapies (such as lab tests, physician visits, hospital stays, etc.). We layer in known or expected changes in hospital, specialist or primary physician rates on a local market basis for the coming 12 to 18 months. We also consider macroeconomic factors and demographic and actuarial nuances. The result is a detailed, data-rich study of medical cost, its components and its drivers, both in the aggregate and at a market level  all updated monthly. We analyze the elements involved in the trend assessment centrally by product and by location, review the trend data monthly, grade our forecasts quarterly, and use a feedback loop process to further tighten the quality of the forecasting models.
This granular, customer- and market-specific view allows us to price based on both known costs and market dynamics. This "bottom-up" pricing model is a highly sophisticated approach for the health insurance industry.
 
Prior period development is a quantitative measurement of the accuracy of historical estimates of medical costs and the system that produced those estimates. UnitedHealth Group has been approximately 99 percent accurate in its estimate of annual medical costs in each of the past eight years. Although perfect foresight would result in zero development, we have found that we have actually tended to be slightly conservative and thereby overaccrued medical expenses in each of those full years. As this has happened consistently over these years, the net impact on reported medical costs is immaterial.
We would suggest that prior period development is best evaluated in context with other items in an earnings report. What is the cash flow from operations? What is happening with key items such as pricing yields and medical cost trends? How stable is the medical care ratio? Have there been recent acquisitions, and how has development of estimates from those acquisitions been treated? The aggregate picture of all these items will tell more about earnings quality and the direction of the business than any single period of reserve development.
UH
NITED
EALTHCARE
Our medical care ratio is increasing in 2006 due to the acquisition of PacifiCare, which has a higher medical care ratio than the legacy UnitedHealthcare business. Through the third quarter, our 2006 medical care ratio was 70 basis points less than our medical care ratio including PacifiCare.
 
The overall medical cost consumption trend for our clients has moderated throughout the past three years. We currently expect the average net trend for 2006  on a same-store basis for the products we insure  to be 7 percent to 7.5 percent. There is some potential for further modest slowing, particularly influenced by the ongoing results of our targeted interventions and actions around cost and utilization outliers. These efforts have clearly created positive results to date.
Our view is that the relatively more favorable cost trend we have realized over the past couple of years is largely the result of several factors: 1) targeted medical affordability initiatives, including contracting and management interventions; 2) increased consumer involvement in decision-making through cost-sharing and consumer-driven product features; 3) market-sensitive product designs; and 4) favorable prescription drug experience resulting from our management initiatives and product enhancements and drug patent expirations. Further attention to these, coupled with expanding efforts regarding transparency around quality and efficiency among care providers, will also favorably impact trends next year.
 
Aggregate costs are, at the most basic level, composed of utilization and unit costs  each of which has historically contributed equally to the total cost trend. However, in the past two years, utilization trends have generally slowed more on a relative basis, and unit cost components are driving most of the health care trend. Considering current 2006 aggregate trend relative to the prior year, increases in the utilization of services have moderated at lower rates of increase than in previous years  in fact a less than 1 percent increase.
Aggregate unit costs have continued to increase based on higher unit costs for most health care items and components. Excluding prescription drugs, overall unit costs are up 5 percent to 5.5 percent this year. This level of increase is at the lower end of the range seen in most years during the past decade or so.
Finally, other factors such as patient acuity have accounted for the balance of the 2006 cost trend.
 
We do not view the process of negotiating responsible cost contracts with hospitals as a battle of relative strength with winners and losers. The key for us, ultimately working on behalf of individual Americans, is to help realize the most appropriate costs for the best possible outcomes in a disciplined but fair and balanced way, and to do that we must work with these key components of our health care system.
Over the past two years, hospitals have been impacted by many of the same factors that have driven trend overall  a moderation in demand for services and increases in new and expensive clinical technology. Coupled with tightening state and federal reimbursements and high labor costs, hospitals have experienced a financial squeeze. This is demonstrated by the fact that, despite getting more rate (price) increases over the past several years, the average hospital profit margin has not changed substantially, staying at about 3 percent to 5 percent.
Most hospitals with which UnitedHealthcare does business attempt to negotiate single-digit price increases that allow them to maintain these margins. At the same time, administrative ease and cash flow are increasingly important to these facilities. UnitedHealthcare accordingly works with hospitals to put in place contracts that can be administered efficiently by both the hospitals and UnitedHealthcare, and that lead to predictable financial results for both parties.
In the negotiations, UnitedHealthcare also works with hospitals to get financial terms that appropriately align risk with the facility and reduce the problem of hospital price charge (also known as "charge master") increases. UnitedHealthcare contracts are predominately fixed-rate per diems and case rates. Where we have percent-of-charge exposure, charge master increase protection is negotiated.
UH
NITED
EALTHCARE
Ultimately, we believe our approaches are resulting in the optimal balance of reasonable costs for payers and consumers, while recognizing the importance of care providers and the need for appropriate care access and affordability in the current environment.
 
UnitedHealthcare strives for fair and transparent relationships with hospitals, physicians and other provider partners. However, in our pursuit of affordability, we must sometimes take a position that draws short-term attention. With specific regard to the highly visible HCA facilities that were recently out-of-network in Colorado, South Florida and Tampa, our ongoing contractual discussion stalled because HCA requested year-over-year increases that were significantly higher than peer hospitals in the same markets, as supported by rigorous data review and analytics. On behalf of our customers and employer groups, UnitedHealthcare did not agree to these increases, which led to HCA terminating our contract. However, we subsequently reached a fair agreement with HCA that better aligns our organizations on a shared quality and affordability agenda. This landmark contract covers more than 150 hospitals and more than 100 diagnostic and treatment centers nationwide into 2011, including HCA facilities in four new markets in Florida, Kentucky, Missouri and Nevada.
 
California Conversion
We are pleased to have completed the development of a durable, proprietary network throughout California, adding 16 hospitals and nearly 5,000 physicians and other care professionals to our statewide network. This represents a 5 percent and 11 percent increase, respectively, over the number of hospitals and physicians that were available via our leased network prior to our merger with PacifiCare Health Systems in December 2005. We have been and will continue to strengthen our network throughout this region.
Northeast
The UnitedHealthcare commercial network in the Northeast region is stable and growing. We maintain good relationships with our key providers, including New York-Presbyterian Hospital, Mount Sinai Hospital, Continuum Health Partners, Jefferson Health System, Yale New Haven Hospital, LifeSpan, Partners Healthcare and Care New England Health System. Since January 1, 2006, we have added 21 new hospitals and more than 7,000 new physicians to the Northeast commercial network (with no significant attrition during this same period). Also, we have established long-term contracts through 2008 and beyond with several key providers.
 
Our priorities for pharmaceutical agents continue to be affordability and clinical appropriateness  for both the employer and employee. Our strategy, which has proven very effective, is to engage consumers in their drug decisions and align their copayments with the evidence-supported health care value of the choices they make. The result is better use of drugs that meet clinical needs and cost less. This approach also has the benefit of providing consumers more choices in the lower copayment tiers, and does not require physicians to obtain prior authorization on prescriptions for their patients. Some key performance metrics include:
 
 
UH
NITED
EALTHCARE
 
 
 
The driver behind much of the favorable cost trend has been the 125-person team at UnitedHealth Pharmaceutical Solutions, a UnitedHealthcare business that provides consulting and management services focused exclusively on pharmacy benefit management.
 
On June 23, a generic version of Zocor was introduced by Teva, the generic manufacturer that was granted six-month exclusivity to provide the generic version, at a higher cost than we currently pay for branded Zocor. As a result, we moved the brand to Tier 1 and placed the generic in Tier 3, a strategy we began to develop almost three years ago specifically to enable us to manage generic drug costs in situations like this or others, where the generic cost is out of line with clinically or therapeutically equivalent alternatives. As soon as the cost of the generic falls below our current cost for the brand, which we expect to happen sometime in the next 90 days, we will move the generic to Tier 1 and the brand to Tier 3. This management approach will result in a lower copayment option for consumers/employees without increasing employer costs, and over time will result in lower overall costs for employers.
Branded Zocor in Tier 1:
Effective September 1, we made several changes in the Proton Pump Inhibitor (PPI) category. Our review of clinical evidence found that the PPI drugs are therapeutically equivalent, including Prilosec OTC. As a result, our Pharmacy Committee approved eliminating coverage of one of these drugs, Nexium, based on therapeutic equivalence to Prilosec OTC, and reinstating coverage of Omeprazole (generic Prilosec). Additionally, the Pharmacy Committee approved moving two other PPIs to lower copayment tiers in our formulary. In all, consumers and their physicians will now have five PPI prescription choices covered by their benefit at a Tier 2 copayment, in addition to Prilosec OTC, which is not covered under the benefit but is available without a prescription at a retail price of under $20 for a month's supply.
Nexium Exclusion:
These PPI changes reflect our evidenced-based approach to managing the pharmacy benefit and our unique ability to balance choice and cost to deliver more affordable pharmacy benefits for both employers and consumers.
UH
NITED
EALTHCARE
Our strategy in specialty areas, such as laboratory and diagnostic services, is to use an integrated approach to improve the quality, appropriateness and cost-effectiveness of these services. Our management programs are based on diseases or lines of service, not just the test or service being applied. As a result, we consider the total health care needs and cost of care where these services are an important element. Some of the more critical elements of our programs focused around cost containment include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
The key to our success is the deployment of an integrated approach to improving quality and reducing unnecessary cost. This requires that we align our contracting, clinical policy and management and benefit design strategies.
A recent example is our reference lab contract with Laboratory Corporation of America, which will be effective January 1, 2007. LabCorp will expand its participation within our diagnostic network of more than 5,000 reference laboratories and patient service centers.
First and foremost, this agreement ensures that our customers and participating network physicians will have access to the highest quality anatomic pathology and clinical laboratory services across the United States, while maintaining a lab network with the same convenience for our customers and care providers.
This agreement also will create better economics for our employer groups. Finally, the relevant and actionable data provided through standardized laboratory and billing systems will empower physicians and other health care providers, consumers and employer groups and other health care constituents to make better, more informed decisions.
 
Given the clinical importance of specialty biopharmaceuticals, as well as their impact on the affordability of health care, we have taken a comprehensive clinical and operational approach to managing specialty drugs as follows:
 
 
 
UH
NITED
EALTHCARE
 
 
 
to use our networks in order to get full benefit coverage, which is essential to driving a high-quality, low-cost network.
Our results to date have proven to be quite successful. While this category of drugs now represents 17 percent of our pharmacy costs, we have significantly lowered the year-to-year cost trend on specialty drugs reimbursed under the pharmacy benefit to less than 10 percent today. Specialty drug spend covered separately under the medical benefit is trending at less than 5 percent this year.
 
Considering all of the factors that will impact costs, we anticipate our medical cost trends will remain relatively moderate and stable throughout 2007. That would mean in a range of 7.5 percent plus or minus 50 basis points. Just as occurred in both 2005 and 2006, this will be influenced by the economic climate and resultant impact on the consumption of health care services and the mix of business we ultimately sell.
The basis for this cost trend outlook  which is generally consistent with our 2006 outlook and within our pricing model  includes a variety of conflicting forces and elements. First, we believe utilization increases will remain moderate based on increasing consumer financial responsibility and our increasingly effective care management programs.
On the other hand, we expect continued unit cost pressure from select health care providers as they try to compensate for soft utilization trends. New technologies are also expected to have a slight impact in 2007.
In the important area of prescription drugs, we believe trends will be in the mid to upper single digits, consistent with the very moderate trend level of 2006. This projection is based on the reality of continued benefit design changes, advancing generic use, patent expirations, a relatively modest new product pipeline and the emerging utilization and costs associated with existing and new specialty drugs.
Finally, the majority of employers are continuing to select products with reduced benefit designs  shifting to the employee some of the costs (particularly those that are discretionary and nonessential) by as much as 150 to 250 basis points. This parallels the approach in 2005 and 2006, and should ultimately put some downward pressure on the related medical cost trends, depending on the aggressiveness of the designs.
UH
NITED
EALTHCARE
There is an overall trend toward benefit designs that engage consumers more directly in the decision-making process. Specifically, we see an important product/design trend in offering consumers lower cost solutions for explicit decisions on coverage levels, provider decisions, treatment decisions and individual health status. This is present across all business types, sizes and funding approaches. We are well positioned to support this greater consumer engagement, and are preparing our customers for this next generation of products. To that end, our product strategy centers on several fundamental actions: improving the range of product options available and matching them to targeted consumer segments; designing programs for significantly increased consumer participation in health care decisions; continuing to emphasize consumer choice and direct access to clinically appropriate care; promoting care quality and patient safety; providing incentives to access physicians and institutions that demonstrate consistency of clinical care against best practice standards; and, leveraging our networks, business scale and proprietary technologies and methods to improve the affordability of health care.
Our products contain wellness programs and services that help individuals get healthy, maintain a healthy lifestyle and maximize the success of inpatient and outpatient treatments when they need care. They feature coordinated delivery of services by using online tools and personalized interventions. We help individuals access high-quality care services through national centers of excellence for catastrophic and complex medical conditions. To advance informed decision-making, our UnitedHealth Premium
program makes quality and efficiency more transparent to consumers so they can identify specialists and hospitals based on evidence-based treatment standards, established clinical guidelines and independent, expert physician advice.
Technology also plays an important role in supporting the consumer by providing 24/7 access to information resources and tools that enable better choices. Our Internet service portals simplify the administrative aspects of health care for consumers. Lastly, we have been pioneers in providing comprehensive personal health record tools that enable consumers to maintain a complete health record along with a personal financial record related to their health benefits program. These are available to care providers through secure Internet portals and are particularly helpful in both emergency and transitional care situations where medical records are neither readily available nor transferable among care providers.
Clearly, consumer engagement and related individual choice opportunities are more prevalent, and we expect this trend to continue. We are approaching the market with a broad array of consumer-focused product choices: programs popularly called consumer-driven health plans, which can be combined with flexible spending accounts, health reimbursement accounts and health savings accounts; UnitedHealth Wellness, which is a holistic wellness program that also contains a consumer discount purchasing program; UnitedHealth Basics, a simplified basic benefit plan; and, Golden Rule plans with health savings accounts for the individual market. Our experience confirms that consumers can and will change health behaviors when armed with the right information and a variety of financial incentives. Importantly, initial results of these efforts show favorable impact on the cost of care and retention of positive health outcomes.
 
Our objective is to provide consumers with affordable, high-quality health benefits supported by appropriate access to care resources, decision-support tools and superior service. Health Savings Accounts (HSAs), which are combined with high-deductible health plans, are just one of many product solutions we provide to meet this objective.
We have had great success distributing HSA- and HRA-compatible products. To date, we serve nearly 800,000 members within UnitedHealthcare in this product segment, approximately 50 percent more than at the end of 2005, and we expect that number will grow significantly in 2007 and beyond. Our capabilities in this product category are exceptional, and we possess all of the assets to service every aspect of these products. Accordingly, we will participate in many of the economic aspects available with these products including maintenance and management of depository accounts through Exante Bank, design and administration of the health benefits, and underwriting and administering the high-deductible policy component of the product.
UH
NITED
EALTHCARE
It is hard to compare the per member per month contribution margin on these products to that of "traditional" products, since similar high-deductible products have been part of our portfolio for many years now. In fact, we consider the so-called consumer movement to be a natural continuation of the trend toward increased employee cost-sharing that has been prominent for several years. As a very practical example, these products have long been a significant part of Golden Rule individual product offerings, which are dominated by higher deductible products.
We launched our HSA product line nationally on January 1, 2005. While it is a bit early for us to exhaustively conclude the impact that HSAs will have on our gross margin, our belief is that on a relative basis the impact will be minimal. We price our HSA-compatible plans with the intent of achieving the same gross margin as other plans of the same benefit richness. Hence, the expected contribution margin would be the same as a traditional plan with comparable benefits.
Pricing of the product will consider the actual benefit utilization and related factors  just as within any product approach. On an absolute dollar basis, comparing the contribution of a lower deductible plan to the HSA-compatible plan, the contribution from a high-deductible plan is slightly lower because the absolute premium level is lower as well.
Overall, we believe the HSA-compatible product category will lead to meaningful top- and bottom-line growth for our business, while driving more affordable health care solutions for employers and consumers. It is a product approach that is responsive to evolving customer needs and should, in turn, be positive for our company as well.
 
If underwritten appropriately, we believe HSAs represent a natural and appropriate progression in the benefit continuum. There will be some obvious selection risks  such as dual-option scenarios where employees self select their own benefit design based on cost and richness of coverage  that need to be addressed through a disciplined underwriting approach, but these are neither an impediment for us nor a reason to avoid participation.
 
Generally speaking, the commercial medical care ratio is lower in the smaller group size and individual markets than it is in the larger case size market segments. In turn, the administration and distribution costs are higher with individual and small group products due to the smaller group size upon which selling and renewal costs are applied. In general, overall profits are relatively consistent across market segments. The only exception is the insured public sector market, where case sizes are typically quite large and health utilization experience tends to be more predictable, which leads to typically lower margins in that market segment.
 
The operating margins in each of our more than 40 mature local markets will vary from, typically, the lower single digits to mid-teens depending on product (such as fully insured versus self-funded), the mix of product types, client or case size, and other factors. As one would expect, we tend to perform better in markets where we have a long-term, well-established reputation of performance; cost-competitive and broad networks; favorable product mix; and a rational competitive environment.
 
Our distribution system consists primarily of brokers and agents in the smaller size segment of our commercial marketplace, and consultant-based or direct sales in the larger employer and public sector segments.
To improve services and lower costs for customers, we have focused on building stronger and more demanding partnerships with the brokerage community. This is accomplished by identifying key relationships in specific geographic markets and investing in extensive broker training, providing expanded services and tools and technologies to help them do their job; elevating our own service levels; and creating appropriate financial alignment  within the constructs of applicable laws, rules and regulations  to achieve targeted results.
UH
NITED
EALTHCARE
As part of this effort, our commissions paid to brokers and agents are based primarily on a per employee, per month (PEPM) fixed-fee approach, rather than the traditional percentage of premium. Larger cases often involve a consultant who is typically paid by the employer rather than by us. Commissions are filed as appropriate with state regulatory bodies and the U.S. Department of Labor.
 
All of our integrations are moving along well with each company fully engaged as part of the UnitedHealthcare family. The acquired companies are progressing on important integration opportunities while continuing to manage their existing business. Our initial set of activities, which have largely been accomplished, focused on the growth opportunities from bringing the companies together as well as driving more affordable health care solutions for employers and consumers through lower out-of-pocket and out-of-network expenses by combining networks, providing a broader product range and reducing administrative costs. As these higher priority initiatives have neared completion, we have begun to focus on deploying consistent technology and information tools to drive even greater affordability, ease of use and service quality into our market offerings.
UH
NITED
EALTHCARE
B O
USINESS
VERVIEW
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C
APABILITIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U
NIPRISE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M C
ARKET
HARACTERISTICS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
G P
ROWTH
AND
ERFORMANCE
 
 
 
U
NIPRISE
Q A U
UESTIONS
AND
NSWERS
FROM
NIPRISE
 
The rising cost of health care has influenced employers' benefit philosophies, design strategies and approach to purchasing. Large employers are seeking ways to drive greater affordability and predictability of cost within their health benefit programs. Current benefit design strategies create greater consumer financial responsibility, encouraging consumer engagement in optimizing care provider and treatment decisions.
Our conversations with employers reveal the following priorities:
 
 
 
 
Most frequently, employers identify the following as important means to achieve these goals:
 
 
 
 
 
Employers are sharing more costs with employees to distribute the real impact of rising health care costs. We see copayments rising, coinsurance being introduced for network services, and deductibles increasing. This has resulted in an average of 1 percent to 1.5 percent of the total benefit cost being shifted to the individual consumer annually. Still, the consumer today pays on average only 15 percent to 17 percent of the total benefit costs. Many large employers are targeting further cost sharing in future years, ultimately reaching at least an 80:20 split between the employer and employee responsibility.
U
NIPRISE
Employers are looking for vehicles that support their employees as the employees assume more financial accountability. Decision-support vehicles, health management services and effective information delivery are high priorities. This includes more transparency with regard to their demand for services and the actual costs and benefits of those services. Employers look to Uniprise to continue developing vehicles that make credible information available to employees, such as on the best treatments, the cost of services, and identification of physicians and hospitals with proven results for treating certain conditions.
In addition to these key elements, there must be objective data and demonstrated experience to support the claims made by any organization that provides or seeks to provide services to the employer and their beneficiaries. Other features, such as innovation and forward-thinking business development, financial stability, consistent strategies and stable execution can add meaningfully to the total value equation.
 
Our customers are trying to find the best total value in their health benefits program. It is apparent that network strength and financial value, while always critical in choosing a health administrator, are now more important than ever. This plays very well to the strengths of Uniprise, as we believe that our networks of physicians and health care providers, managed by UnitedHealthcare, are the best national network assets available, providing measurable cost and outcomes advantages.
Our consistent, national approach to care management, disease management and centers of excellence enhance the effectiveness of our network of physicians and care providers. We have taken a critical step toward opening a more rational health care marketplace for consumers by deploying a clinically driven approach to identifying medical "centers of excellence" for catastrophic and complex medical care. These networks support both superior outcomes for patients and a total cost profile lower than at average institutions, due in large part to their patients having fewer complications. To advance informed decision-making, the UnitedHealth Premium
program makes quality and efficiency more transparent to consumers, so they can identify specialists and hospitals based on evidence-based treatment standards, established clinical guidelines, and independent, expert advice. In offering such programs, our single national data administration and service platform provides a unique cost and service advantage. As a result, we can  as never before  demonstrate proven and predictable value.
Further, the notions of consumer accountability and consumerism in health care have become mainstream, whether or not the employer chooses to implement a consumer-driven health plan. Employers seek help in the process of responding to this change  managing shifts in expectations and corporate culture, effective employee communications and ongoing decision and care support services.
As rising health care costs become a significant cost driver for our customers, we see their executive suites becoming increasingly involved in the purchasing of health care. Benefit departments are being joined by CFOs and procurement executives, which creates the need to further educate these executives on the components and nuances of health care costs and inflation. Overall, we believe very senior-level executive involvement in health care purchasing is a positive trend for Uniprise that will drive objective and comparative analyses of our capabilities relative to those of our competitors.
 
There are substantive differences in the assets of UnitedHealth Group and the other companies seeking to serve this market. Our differentiation is demonstrated in a number of ways:
 
U
NIPRISE
 
 
These differences, in turn, translate into substantial differentiation in the value we provide and have strategic implications for the customer value we will provide in the future. Of course, there will always be competition in any business sector. It is our assessment that competitors will need to build what we have already integrated, and that process will take a minimum of several hundred million dollars in capital investment over the next five years. As some companies decide to take that step, Uniprise will continue to invest in improving the value we deliver to our customers from our single national system and its various components and features.
 
We expect continued strong revenue growth averaging at least 5 percent per year over the foreseeable future. We serve an external employer market that has in excess of 50 million consumers, and we intend to consistently expand market share of our business each year. Our new business wins have added approximately 1 percentage point of market share each year since the formation of Uniprise in 1998, and we currently service only about 2 2 percent of the market of multilocation clients with more than 5,000 employees.
Revenue growth will principally occur because of customer growth, both the expansion of our relationships with existing clients as well as the addition of new employer customers. Our compelling consumer-centric services and innovative specialty products will allow us to grow our current share within existing clients. Current customer penetration rates are slightly greater than 40 percent, with clear upside opportunity as consolidation continues. Consolidation within health care is a continuing factor and opportunity, with only 50 percent of the market consolidated within national plans. Employer fee increases will add only modestly to revenue growth, as we continue to share our productivity gains with our customers. Fees should continue to increase at a low-single-digit percentage rate, and we will further improve our cost structure.
As the entity providing production and transaction services to the commercial health benefits business of UnitedHealthcare, we also benefit from their continued growth. Their volume gains plus our own growth should allow us to advance the number of individuals served through our services by an average of 1 million consumers per year.
We also believe the continued diversification of Uniprise in the areas of systems deployment and health-care-related financial services will contribute revenue gains in coming years.
U
NIPRISE
We are focused on achieving levels of customer service and transaction quality never seen before in this industry. This means continued investment and innovation aimed at advancing a highly automated technology platform that enables an intimate customer interaction. This will help individual consumers through their most difficult health care issues, remove frustration and complexity, and help them better navigate the health care system. Increasing value will be provided to our customers as they adopt self-service and easy-to-use employer administration tools. We currently well exceed the standard industry performance guarantee levels (average speed to answer, time to pay, financial accuracy), and considerable further advances will occur.
In addition, we continue to leverage our industry-leading transaction processing and integrated swipe card technologies. As we further advance the consumer experience to a simpler, more real-time environment, we are piloting real-time claim adjudication (RTA) in a dozen markets and will roll out RTA to all markets by the end of 2006. Early tests in the pilot show accepted claims being processed in 10 seconds or less  usually while the patient is still in the doctor's office. And, our "One Pay" pilot in Texas is allowing participating consumers to consolidate their health care bills and statements with a single card, allowing a full credit and financing capability to help them manage their health care expense.
We also continue to perfect our state-of-the-art voice technology for our customer care environment, offering even deeper, more convenient and valuable self-service options for our consumers. Finally, we offer a new level of sophisticated problem resolution capabilities to our customer care team, providing greater support to consumers with complex claim or benefit issues.
Last, we are evolving our customer care models to provide levels of support, counseling and problem resolution previously unheard of in this industry  all in a seamless and integrated system. These initiatives will further differentiate us from other programs and provide our customers with a true advocate for their heath care needs.
 
We will continue to drive strong productivity gains for many more years from our continuing efforts to simplify, standardize and eliminate paper and manual processing through automation. We have made major advances on this agenda, yet there is much more to accomplish. Right now, for instance, we automatically adjudicate all of our pharmaceutical claims and approximately 81 percent of our medical claims, and we should be able to achieve yet a higher level over the next several years. This will allow us to further improve the accuracy and throughput, as well as reduce the labor we utilize to pay medical claims. Similarly, disciplined adoption of Six Sigma-type process quality will drive greater accuracy and eliminate defects and rework. We have seen encouraging results from these efforts already, but more is to come.
Not only are our internal quality measures improving, but we are seeing that consumers and physicians now have less need to call us with questions. The absolute number of calls per thousand members we receive is still declining by around 5 percent per annum, as we achieve more accurate claim payment, ID card generation and eligibility information.
Over the next several years, our customers will experience unsurpassed service levels as employers, physicians and consumers continue to adopt the self-service tools we have developed; as we improve our internal quality through process quality disciplines; and, as we improve our consumer support. We continue to believe that achieving Six Sigma levels of process quality can generate more than $250 million in savings in the coming few years.
 
Uniprise has a formalized, rigorous quality program of dedicated process quality practitioners under the direct leadership of our chief operating officer. The primary focus of the various projects has been on improving our quality and consumer satisfaction. We have accomplished this through teams focused on reducing claims rework, improving payment accuracy and improving first-call resolution, as well as through "Voice of the Customer" councils. These efforts have driven a 15 percent reduction in defects in our core transaction processing areas and an almost 50 percent reduction in defects in our customer call handling.
U
NIPRISE
Over the next several years, we anticipate margins will range from 16 percent to 20 percent or better, depending on the mix of services. This will occur as both our customers and shareholders continue to benefit from the productivity gains that accrue through automation, higher quality and standardization of our business processes, and excellent and appropriate health care facilitation and management services.
 
To the best of our understanding, Uniprise has the absolute lowest administrative cost per member in delivering health benefit services to the national employer segment. However, we firmly believe that recognizing total cost contribution is a critical element of disciplined market pricing. By recognizing total cost contribution in our new business pricing, Uniprise is insulated from mix shifts and cross-subsidization that trouble many who use variable pricing. Also, in our market space customers are generally not commodity purchasers, so pricing and resulting profit margins are a factor of the value we deliver in our total solution and not just a derivative of our administrative cost structure.
 
Health care costs continue to rise, and employers are looking for innovative strategies that can limit financial exposure while providing cost-effective health care for their employees. With the growing public interest in transparency, addressing variation in treatment practices and costs is an issue central to employers' efforts to contain their annual health care spend. As a result, strategies that inform consumer decision-making and promote the use of high-quality, cost-effective care are becoming more common as a core component of employer benefit plans. In 2006, the majority of proposal activity in the large employer segment requested detailed information regarding how quality and cost information about physicians and facilities would be delivered to members. We see that trend increasing as we move into 2007 and beyond. Working with a core group of thought-leading employers, UnitedHealth Group developed the UnitedHealth Premium designation program  an integrated network and consumer strategy  to deliver actionable information on physician and facility performance on both quality and efficiency of care.
Our claims data show that care and cost variation have a significant impact on an employer's overall health care spend and the consumer experience with care. A 2005 study of cardiovascular surgeons showed that physicians not designated under the UnitedHealth Premium program had 70 percent higher complication rates and twice the number of surgical redos when compared to surgeons with UnitedHealth Premium quality and efficiency designations. On average, cardiovascular surgeons with UnitedHealth Premium quality and efficiency designations deliver savings of approximately 20 percent per episode of care. Therefore, we believe a strategy that improves care delivery and informs consumer choice has the ability to effectively reduce an employer's health care spend.
The UnitedHealth Premium program is part of an integrated approach that links performance information (individual physician and/or performance reports, peer-to-peer reviews, Bridges to Excellence
SM
, Practice Rewards), clinical information (wellness and prevention, nurse advisors, targeted outreach, care coordination, disease management) and consumer activation resources (Web-based tools, interaction with nurse advisors and customer care, benefit incentives) to drive transparency and greater information around care delivery.
This strategy is aimed at using these resources to raise the bar regarding service delivery and efficiency across the entire care network. For these strategies to succeed, a more rational marketplace for health care must take root. Individuals must also have access to measures of relative cost-efficiency and quality that attach to the treatment options available to them and to the practitioners within the medical community. We are working to support employees with access to evidence-based health information that aids in their decision-making, and we offer support on how best to use that information. Through comprehensive employee communication and activation strategies and benefit incentives, employers can reduce unnecessary and inefficient health costs, and consumers can realize a better health outcome.
U
NIPRISE
Uniprise continues to experience extremely positive client retention rates consistently between 97 percent and 99 percent. As part of this trend, Uniprise also continues to expand within its existing clients  with more than 40 percent of its overall growth coming from existing clients over the past five years.
 
We have a strong competitive position. A byproduct of the free enterprise system is that competition forces better performance from all companies and for all customers. The market is seeing stronger value propositions from all parties versus five years ago. We feel that we are in the forefront of this market advancement, and we continue to move ahead in many ways.
Uniprise continues to drive performance and differentiation within employer-sponsored benefit programs focused on active employees. We have made significant, differentiated advances in 2005 and 2006, including the deployment of key consumer activation services across consumer-driven health and traditional plans, new financial card technology applications, the designation of Premium physicians and hospitals, and the formation of strategic alliances that expand access to resources in key markets. We continue to drive process quality improvement on a single, national system platform that is unmatched in our industry.
At the same time, we are aggressively expanding our market scope to new areas, including greater emphasis on retiree health care solutions, expanding access to health benefits to the under-insured and uninsured market, and driving service solutions to help plan sponsors improve program effectiveness and performance.
While we see different competitors picking one or two of these initiatives and responding, we are not aware of comprehensive, across-the-board advances to match Uniprise. We compete in a very large market and still have only 22 percent share in that market today. While no company will win every case, we see ample opportunity for Uniprise to build its business in coming years.
 
Consumer-driven health care drives our innovation and our growth. Our consumer portfolio (employer-based and individual business) is expected to grow to more than 2 million members as we enter 2007. We currently serve more than 17,000 employers with consumer-driven programs. Approximately one-third of our large and mid-sized employer clients offer a consumer-driven plan through us, with average enrollment rates of 26 percent for Health Reimbursement Account (HRA) plans and 15 percent for Health Saving Account (HSA) plans. During 2006, our CDH business hit critical mass, representing approximately 10 percent of the total Uniprise membership base.
Our consumer-driven health plan growth clearly represents new membership rather than conversion of membership from one product into another. More than 70 percent of our 2006 in-year growth represents members new to UnitedHealth Group.
The HSA model has experienced accelerated growth since its introduction in late 2003. Our HSA business has doubled since fall 2005, with more than 300,000 individuals added during 2006 alone.
We see the market for consumer-driven health care continuing to expand in the future. The year 2006 saw the emergence of deep-seated evidence that links these strategies to improved affordability for both individuals and employers. The strength of data, such as that published this summer by Definity Health, has moved the market beyond early adopters and more broadly across employers of all sizes. Benefit consultants, policy groups and others now routinely call for adoption of CDH by 30 percent to 50 percent of employers (across all size segments) by 2008. Concurrently, enrollment expectations within the plans have also risen (e.g., 30 percent today versus 10 percent to 20 percent two years ago).
As the market has matured, the number of health plans offering CDH plan designs has increased. Results of the 2006 enrollment and selling season indicate recognition of UnitedHealth Group's vision and focus on this business. Our membership today, representing all employer segments and the individual market, is larger than that of our four next-largest competitors, combined. That depth has enabled understanding and insight regarding CDH performance that drives both the market shift and our own opportunities.
U
NIPRISE
Early this summer, we released the industry's first significant three-year study of the impact of CDH. The results confirm that Definity Health plans drove sustained change in use of health services and underlying cost trend, performing favorably to traditional plans and strategies. Moreover, more of the CDH plan members sought preventive care services than did PPO enrollees; individuals enrolled in CDH plans showed an annual reduction in the use of acute care services (22 percent fewer hospital admissions and 14 percent fewer emergency room visits) without adverse health effects or outcomes, while the relative utilization of those services actually increased year-over-year among PPO members; and CDH plan enrollees with a chronic illness also used acute services less (8 percent fewer hospital admissions and 12 percent fewer emergency room visits) but continued to visit their primary care physician at the same rate as chronically ill members enrolled in traditional plans.
Employers are now heavily weighing an organization's ability to drive affordability in health and spur consumer education and decisions with a focus on wellness and chronic conditions. This context has contributed to the favorable market response to Definity's 2006 personal health initiatives, including Rewards for Action. Rewards for Action pairs chronic condition coaching with financial incentives to encourage chronically ill individuals to take greater ownership for their health and evidence-based care. (Consistent with our long view on consumerism, innovations like this have their root in our CDH plans, but will be extended to other populations.) Similarly, the Personal Health Record, capturing all medical, pharmacy and lab information relevant to the individual, was introduced in late 2005 to facilitate patient-physician discussion and improve the individual's ability to make effective decisions. In 2007, this record will be accessible online for the physician at the point of care.
With the focus on consumer health purchases has come an emphasis on transparency in health care. Definity Health has long offered a health care Buyers Guide to its members, displaying indicators of quality and cost in more than 100 markets. This mechanism  an easy-to-use, Zagat
-like tool  will be provided to all UnitedHealth Group plan members during 2007, and will leverage the depth of our Premium designation program for hospitals and physicians. We have demonstrated a direct correlation between the use of selection and cost tools with lower health costs among Definity Health members.
Through the integration of Exante Financial Services within our core operating environment, UnitedHealth Group is helping employers maximize uptake of Health Savings Accounts. Integrated decision and enrollment processes have meant that close to 80 percent of those eligible opened an Exante HSA, higher than industry averages of 60 percent to 65 percent.
Consistent with our view that consumer engagement does not end with plan design, UnitedHealth Group has extended consumer activation services to more than 1 million members enrolled in traditional health benefit plans in 2006, and expects to extend those serves universally across its membership throughout 2007 and beyond. These measures reflect a continued transformation of UnitedHealth Group's operating model and practices around the consumer.
 
We believe that providing highly integrated financial support and services will be critical to the future of health benefit administration. Much like other critical-to-market functionality, we believe it is imperative to fully control and manage this capability, and have it exclusively focused on health care. By doing so, we can advance those services in the same fashion we have innovated and revolutionized other seemingly "commodity" services in health benefit administration (e.g., claims). Owning our own bank also allows us to serve as the issuing bank for the more than 19 million benefit cards Uniprise now has in circulation, providing a platform for both revenue and product innovation in the future. Exante's independence also allows it to serve as a platform for the turnkey financial services products we offer to other insurers, administrators and care providers in today's health care services marketplace. These elements and this positioning allow Uniprise to fully capitalize on the growing consumer-driven health plan market, while bringing new innovation to our existing products.
U
NIPRISE
We are working closely with our customers to address their objectives and the needs of their retirees. With the introduction of Medicare Part D and the continued reductions in employer-subsidized retiree health care, many employers are looking for alternatives to the traditional self-insured and fully insured group solutions.
UnitedHealth Group's retiree solution set is the broadest and most widely available. In addition to traditional retiree health offerings, we also include the broad array of individual and group products available through Ovations. Adding the strength of the financial products in Exante, we provide our customers with an array of integrated financial and health solutions to address their unique retiree needs.
This group includes existing customers who are looking for more affordable self-insured offerings, customers who are looking for a transition to alternative products like Part D, Medicare Advantage and Medicare Supplement  which are available as either individual or group products  and employers who are looking to exit retiree health care altogether and need individual market solutions as an alternative to their current group benefit.
This is evidenced by our continued strong position in the employer retiree space that includes more than 2 million members served in traditional group products and another half million individuals with Ovations products delivered through employers.
 
The combination with PacifiCare has allowed us to extend broader access, improved affordability and more cohesive and consistent quality and service protocols to our customers in California and the broader western region. Upon completion of the merger, we were required to establish our own proprietary network within six months. That short time frame, and the unique characteristics of the California care provider community, created certain challenges that, in varying degrees, impacted our customers  primarily those in Northern California. Through partnership with our customers and the vast majority of care providers in our network, we were able to effectively address those issues quickly, positioning our capabilities in California and the West for long-term success. Customers in California today collectively have access to an additional 16 hospitals and more than 5,000 physicians than previously available through our networks, a 5 percent and an 11 percent increase in access respectively.
U
NIPRISE
 
(For Immediate Release)
Pharmaceutical services company i3 today announced the next phase of its global expansion, which includes organic and acquired growth in India, Latin America, and Eastern and Western Europe. Coupled with important acquisitions earlier this year in Canada and Asia/Pacific, these additions to the i3 family will help i3's pharmaceutical clients bring high-quality, well-tested drugs to market faster and more affordably by augmenting i3's ability to provide customers access to a large pool of patients and investigators and the most efficient services from across the globe. They will further enhance i3's position as a leading specialized pharmaceutical services organization in the world.
BASKING RIDGE, NJ, December 7, 2006 
"Our strategy of increased geographic reach continues to honor i3's responsibility to our customers," said Glenn Bilawsky, CEO of i3. "Pharmaceutical companies want to expedite development and gain cost efficiencies through well-run trials that are completed on time and on budget. Our expansion will help us accomplish those goals while still maintaining i3's commitment to specialization and quality, which has become an industry hallmark."
i3 Operations in Latin America
i3 announced today its acquisition of one of Latin America's largest privately held contract research organizations (CRO), with operations in Argentina, Brazil, Costa Rica, Mexico, Peru and Uruguay. This full service CRO specializes in clinical research and professional outsourcing and has a wide range of medium to large pharmaceutical and biotechnology clients. Its emphasis on quality dovetails nicely with i3's six-sigma approach to process improvement that builds in quality at all levels. i3 intends to operate the new organization as i3 Latin America.
"The Latin American market is 500 million people strong and the pharmaceutical industry's demand for CRO-related services is growing rapidly there," said Nigel Page, president of i3 Research. "i3 Latin America will extend i3's capabilities for our customers with known and emerging needs in Latin America and brings i3's regional strength, expertise and investment to this critical market."
i3 Operations in India
i3 also is expanding into India with a full-service office in Delhi. In India, i3 will provide clinical research and data services offerings for India-specific and global trials. In addition to project management, monitoring, regulatory and quality assurance services, its data services offerings will include data entry and programming, data management, biostatistics and statistical programming. A staffing solutions business will meet the temporary staffing needs of pharmaceutical companies in India and provide recruiting and training support for i3 operations in India.
Previous Acquisitions in 2006
Earlier this year, i3 acquired the Canadian company Innovus. Today, i3 Innovus is a worldwide leader in providing health economics and outcomes research solutions to deliver real-world evidence that supports market access and reimbursement of health care products. Another recent acquisitionPacific Pharma Partners Pte Ltd. (P3)strengthened i3's presence in the Asia/Pacific marketplace. Now part of i3 Research, i3's therapeutically specialized clinical CRO, the pan-Asian CRO provides outsourced clinical development services in Far Eastern markets.
New Offices and Expansions
i3 also is opening a new office in Poland to supplement its existing presence and support its rapidly growing resources in Central and Eastern Europe. It is physically expanding its offices in France, Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States. Other i3 offices around the world include Australia, Canada, the Czech Republic, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and 17 offices across America. In aggregate, i3 now offers its customers services in country locations on six continents.
About i3
i3, a global Ingenix company, provides integrated scientific strategies and solutions throughout the pharmaceutical product lifecycle. It is composed of i3 Research, a therapeutically specialized contract research organization; i3 Statprobe, a leader in comprehensive data services; i3 Pharma Resourcing, a world-class staffing partner; i3 Drug Safety, engaged in pharmacovigilence and epidemiology; i3 Innovus, delivering the science and solutions to achieve marketplace success; and, i3 CME, providing certified medical education. i3 helps companies gain sharper insights that lead to better patient care. For more information, visit . Ingenix is a subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH).
www.i3global.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption of or costs of medical services; heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers; events that may negatively affect our contract with AARP; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; funding risks with respect to revenue
received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, legislative activity and government regulation and review of our industry; potential consequences surrounding findings of our ongoing internal investigation, investigation by a committee of our independent directors and informal SEC inquiry into our stock option granting practices, as well as a subpoena from the office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York requesting documents relating to stock option grants since 1999 and a request from the Internal Revenue Service for documents relating to the compensation of certain executive officers; uncertainty of results of pending civil litigation relating to our stock option granting practices; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service providers; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care provider disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; and anticipated benefits of acquiring PacifiCare may not be realized. This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including Appendix I of our Form 12b-25 with respect to our From 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2006, our annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
(For Immediate Release)
(December 1, 2006)  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (NYSE: UNH) announced today that Stephen J. Hemsley has stepped into the position of chief executive officer of the Company, effective immediately. Mr. Hemsley has been the Company's president and chief operating officer since 1999.
Minneapolis, Minn.
Richard T. Burke, chairman of the Board of Directors said, "Steve has proven himself to be the right leader for the Company at this important time. The Board is pleased with the rapid progress he is making on our recent initiatives to further improve corporate governance. Steve leads by example through teamwork, a commitment to service and his personal integrity. With Steve at the helm, supported by a very talented group of senior executives and business segment CEOs, UnitedHealth Group will continue to innovate, grow and diversify."
Steve Hemsley said, "We have an exceptional leadership team in place and great employees dedicated to our mission of advancing and improving health care in this country. We serve the vital health care sector, which means we have social responsibilities that are far greater than other commercial enterprises of our size. We take these responsibilities very seriously. Our business remains strong, and we see a great opportunity before us to renew our commitment to excellence in everything we do."
Mr. Hemsley also announced recent changes being made in the structure of UnitedHealth Group's executive management to address immediate organizational issues and to build leadership capacity for the future to match the scale, diversification and service responsibilities of a growing and highly complex enterprise. These responsibilities are expected to evolve over time. The executive changes, which begin immediately and become fully effective on or after January 1, 2007, include assigning to executives oversight responsibility for the business segments, as well as enterprise-wide, functional responsibilities at the corporate level to focus greater attention and resources on critical areas of the Company:
 
 
 
 
 
The Company will not be breaking down or technically changing its business segments' unit accountability framework.
Mr. Hemsley said, "UnitedHealth Group has experienced extraordinary growth over the past several years. We are introducing an expanded management structure that enables our enterprise to be increasingly nimble and responsive to future market dynamics, while also ensuring that we have the executive capacity and leadership to match our scale and commercial ambitions. With this structure and with these very talented people, we will operate in a more collaborative, open fashion as a leadership team. Together, we can advance a company and culture that fosters a real commitment to care and serve, to innovate and grow and to meet the highest standards of business practice and performance."
UnitedHealth Group is proceeding with the Board of Directors' mandate to recruit a chief administrative officer, a chief legal officer, a chief ethics officer and recruit new Board members. The Company also plans to make further organizational adjustments as new executive positions are filled and in areas such as marketing and distribution, business and product development and systemic quality.
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group ( ) is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves approximately 70 million individuals nationwide.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the potential consequences of the findings announced on October 15, 2006 of the investigation by an Independent Committee of directors of our stock option programs (including the consequences of our determination that the Company's financial statements for the years ended 1994 to 2005, the interim periods contained therein, the quarter ended March 31, 2006 and all earnings and press releases, including for the quarters ended June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006, and similar communications issued by the Company for such periods and the related reports of the Company's independent registered public accounting firm should not be relied upon, the consequences of the resulting restatement of our financial statements for those periods, and delays in filing our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the second and third quarters of 2006), related governmental reviews by the SEC, IRS, U.S. Senate Finance
Committee, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and Minnesota Attorney General, and related shareholder derivative actions, shareholder demands and securities class actions, a purported notice of acceleration with respect to certain of the Company's debt securities based upon an alleged event of default under the indenture governing such securities, and recent management and director changes, and the potential impact of each of these matters on our business, credit ratings and debt; increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption of or costs of medical services; heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers; events that may negatively affect our contract with AARP; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; funding risks with respect to revenues received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, legislative activity and government regulation and review of our industry; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service providers; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care provider disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; and anticipated benefits of acquiring PacifiCare that may not be realized.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
(For immediate release)
 Ovations, the UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) company dedicated to improving health and well-being among Americans age 50 and older, today announced a significant expansion in its efforts to allow seniors easy access to enrolling in Medicare prescription drug coverage, including Medicare Advantage and Part D plans, during the upcoming Open Enrollment Period from November 15 to December 31, 2006.
Minneapolis, Minn., (November 3, 2006)
SecureHorizons plans, the leading name in Medicare Advantage, will now be offered through enrollment centers in more than 700 Wal-Mart stores in 30 states, in addition to the traditional telephone, Internet and insurance broker distribution programs already in place. At each Wal-Mart location, SecureHorizons representatives will be available during designated hours to answer any questions people have about their health coverage choices and to help them enroll in the SecureHorizons plan that best meets their individual needs. To provide seniors with a broad range of options to choose from, Medicare Advantage and Part D information and enrollment kits will also be on hand for beneficiaries who would like to sign up for prescription drug coverage. In addition, educational materials will be available in stores prior to, during and after the Open Enrollment Period to help beneficiaries and caregivers make well-informed health care decisions. Community outreach events are also scheduled.
The agreement with Wal-Mart will add to existing efforts to ensure that seniors have complete information about, and easy access to, the SecureHorizons plans which today serve more than 1.4 million people. The new effort with Wal-Mart is an important component of SecureHorizons' overall readiness plan to provide Medicare-eligible beneficiaries across the country with knowledgeable, one-on-one service as they prepare to make decisions about their 2007 benefits. In addition to the resources at Wal-Mart stores, more than 900 customer service representatives and 700 licensed sales agents will be available in communities and over the telephone throughout the Open Enrollment Period. These teams are supported by SecureHorizons' extensive broker network of more than 25,000 agents, all of whom have been trained and certified to sell SecureHorizons 2007 benefit plans.
"We're very pleased to announce this new agreement with Wal-Mart, which gives us greater access to a significant number of Medicare beneficiaries in key markets throughout the United States," said SecureHorizons CEO Rick Jelinek. "This is the first time individuals will have such a limited time period to enroll in Medicare Advantage, so it is imperative that we reach out to them in a timely fashion so they can understand the benefits of these plans and take advantage of the value offered by our SecureHorizons plans."
Jelinek added, "Our presence in more than 700 Wal-Mart locations in 30 states means we can serve a much broader audience of people on a one-on-one, personalized basis by answering their questions about Medicare Advantage. We will also be able to enroll them in the SecureHorizons plan that's right for them in a quick and easy manner while demonstrating our hallmark high-quality customer service first-hand."
For years, SecureHorizons plans have been the national leader in serving Medicare beneficiaries. Most SecureHorizons plans are available at no extra monthly cost beyond what a person would typically pay for traditional Medicare. At the same time, they provide more choice and generally greater value for health care and prescription drug coverage than standard Medicare coverage. SecureHorizons plans are available in all 50 states.
SecureHorizons plans will be available at Wal-Mart locations in Alaska, Arkansas, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Iowa, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Missouri, Montana, North Carolina, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Mexico, Nevada, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington and Wisconsin.
About SecureHorizons by UnitedHealthcare
SecureHorizons by UnitedHealthcare is the country's leading Medicare Advantage brand serving the needs of Medicare beneficiaries. Focused on simplifying health care and helping beneficiaries get the most out of Medicare, SecureHorizons helps those 65 and older and other individuals eligible for Medicare, "Live Secure, Be Secure." SecureHorizons is nationally recognized for offering an extensive range of Medicare Advantage plans and other products that provide quality, affordable health care.
About Ovations
Ovations is the UnitedHealth Group Company dedicated to improving the health and well-being of Americans ages 50 and older. Through its diverse and comprehensive array of products, Ovations delivers simple, affordable, effective health care solutions shaped to meet the needs of older Americans.
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group ( www.unitedhealthgroup.com ) is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves approximately 70 million individuals nationwide.
About Wal-Mart
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. operates Wal-Mart discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and SAM'S CLUB locations in the United States. The company operates in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Germany, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. The company's securities are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and NYSE Arca, formerly the Pacific Stock Exchange, under the symbol WMT.
More information about Wal-Mart can be found by visiting . Online merchandise sales are available at .
www.walmartfacts.com
www.walmart.com
NEWS RELEASE
 
(For Immediate Release)
- UnitedHealthcare, a UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) company, and HCA Inc. (NYSE: HCA), today announced a new long-term nationwide agreement. The agreement provides United members access to HCA facilities, covers members into 2011 and recognizes HCA's and United's ongoing commitment to quality and accessibility.
NASHVILLE/MINNEAPOLIS (Nov. 3, 2006)
"Our renewed relationship with HCA will provide quality, affordable health care for the people we serve," said David Wichmann, president and chief operating officer of UnitedHealthcare. "We arrived at an agreement that will advance quality, ease administration and maintain affordability. While the past few months have been challenging for many of our members, we are pleased that this new contract will offer not only long-term stability for customers, but also reinforces our commitment to quality for our members."
The new contract extends access to over 150 of HCA's hospitals and over 100 diagnostic and treatment centers across the country. It covers UnitedHealthcare and all commercial affiliates  including Mid-Atlantic Medical Services, PacifiCare, and Neighborhood Health Partnership  and Medicare business, including Secure Horizons. Effective immediately, United members have access to all HCA-owned facilities in Denver, South Florida and Tampa, including HealthONE imaging centers. The new agreement will also allow access for UnitedHealthcare members in four new markets by the end of 2006, including Kansas City, Mo., the Florida Panhandle, Nevada and Frankfort, Ky.
"HCA offers the country's most extensive and diverse network of hospitals, diagnostic and treatment centers. The patients and employers in the communities we serve prefer to have access to these facilities," said Richard M. Bracken, President and Chief Operating Officer of HCA. "We are pleased to have reached an agreement with United on terms that allow us to provide high quality, technologically-advanced and compassionate care."
About HCA
HCA Inc. is a holding company whose affiliates own and operate hospitals and related health care entities. The term "affiliates" includes direct and indirect subsidiaries of HCA Inc. and partnerships and joint ventures in which such subsidiaries are partners. At September 30, 2006, these affiliates owned and operated 172 hospitals, 95 freestanding surgery centers and facilities which provided extensive outpatient and ancillary services. Affiliates of HCA Inc. are also partners in joint ventures that own and operate seven hospitals and nine freestanding surgery centers which are accounted for using the equity method. The Company's facilities are located in 21 states, England and Switzerland.
About UnitedHealthcare
UnitedHealthcare (www.unitedhealthcare.com) provides a full spectrum of consumer-oriented health benefit plans and services, helping approximately 25 million individual consumers nationwide achieve improved health and well-being through various health service systems. UnitedHealthcare arranges access to quality, affordable care with more than 500,000 physicians and care professionals and 4,600 hospitals across America. UnitedHealthcare is one of the businesses of UnitedHealth Group, a diversified Fortune 50 health and well-being company.
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
 
Ovations, the UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) business dedicated to serving the health and well-being of people age 50 and older, announced today that all of its contracts for the Medicare Prescription Drug Program have been approved by the federal government. Under this authority, UnitedHealth Group through Ovations will again offer stand-alone prescription drug plans in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and all five U.S. Territories. Ovations also qualified to enroll lower income Medicare recipients and individuals who are eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid in every region.
MINNEAPOLIS, MN (October 4, 2006) 
"In the inaugural year of the Medicare Part D program, we offered well-designed plans that yielded high satisfaction ratings among our members and achieved more than $9 billion in savings on prescription drug costs," said Lois Quam, CEO of Ovations. "Through our national presence, large membership base and deep experience with Medicare, we will continue to offer secure and affordable plans that meet the needs of older Americans."
Broad Portfolio of Plans with Valuable Features
This year, the Ovations Part D portfolio includes three stand-alone Part D plans that carry the exclusive endorsement of AARP, the largest and most respected membership organization serving older Americans: . In addition, Ovations will offer two affordable stand-alone Part D plans, UnitedHealth Rx  Basic and UnitedHealth Rx  Extended, as well as Part D coverage options for individuals enrolled in SecureHorizons Medicare Advantage plans. The company's portfolio also includes a variety of prescription drug plan options for employers.
AARP MedicareRx Plan, AARP MedicareRx Plan  Saver and AARP MedicareRx Plan  Enhanced
Valuable features shared across all stand-alone Part D plans offered through Ovations include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key features of the three AARP MedicareRx Plans are:
AARP MedicareRx Plan
 
 
 
AARP MedicareRx Plan  Enhanced
 
 
 
 
 
AARP MedicareRx Plan  Saver
 
 
Ovations will again work to ensure that Medicare beneficiaries understand the Prescription Drug Program, and can make informed decisions when selecting a Part D plan sponsor. The company will focus on reaching individuals with lower incomes through direct mail and community events to let them know about the availability of extra financial help. In addition, the company will continue its efforts to make sure caregivers  whether a spouse, adult child, family member or another loved one  understand Part D and can assist their loved one in choosing a plan that best meets their needs.
 
Open Enrollment for Medicare Part D plans starts on November 15. For more information, visit .
www.AARPMedicareRx.com
About Ovations
Ovations offers a diverse and comprehensive array of products and services that respond to the health and well-being needs of adults of all ages, with a particular focus on those age 50 and above. Among its most popular services are: Medicare Prescription Drug plans, Medicare Advantage plans, Medigap offerings, independent living services, special needs and hospice services, group retiree solutions and insurance plans for pre-Medicare retirees ages 50-64.
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves approximately 70 million individuals nationwide. Visit for more information.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
 
 To simplify how consumers manage and pay for their health care, and to help medical professionals reduce their administrative burden, UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) is enhancing its health benefit card technology. The Company's new technology will provide the information needed to promptly administer benefits and facilitate health transactions and payments, thus simplifying the process for patients and providing health care professionals with an administrative resource. The card will also convey essential health records that support care interventions. From a consumer perspective, these services transcend benefit plan boundaries and traditional geographic limits, enabling people to have their information and financial resources follow them across products or across the country.
Minneapolis (August 14, 2006)
Nearly 20 million people already have unique magnetic strip ID cards in their wallets. That card, which was first introduced by UnitedHealth Group three years ago to replace traditional paper ID cards, can verify eligibility and copay amounts with a simple swipe of the card. UnitedHealth Group, through its Exante Financial Services business, is now enhancing its card technology by combining both health care and financial information on a single card in order to support more informed health care consumers.
"By combining health and financial information, we have greatly simplified a series of fragmented and time-consuming experiences for health care consumers," said John M. Prince, CEO of Exante Financial Services. "People are being asked to exercise much more control over how they spend their health care dollars, so it is imperative that we give them the necessary tools to do that in a simple and efficient way."
Eligibility
The integrated card will feature enhanced eligibility verification over the original ID card, providing real-time confirmation of a patient's benefits coverage via the UnitedHealthcareOnline provider portal with a single swipe of the card through a standard card reader. The enhanced eligibility verification will include more extensive benefit plan information than previously available when swiped, thus helping to speed the submission and processing of claims.
"Multi-Purse" Debit Card
Today, even advanced types of benefit ID cards typically contain only health benefit information. Consumers who have a health financial account must carry a separate debit card to access it. Exante's new integrated card will combine these two capacities into one card, while also expanding account access to multiple health accounts, known as a "multi-purse" capability. Combining these onto a single card will not only improve ease of use, but will also enable consumer access for the first time to multiple health accounts (i.e. Health Savings Account, Flexible Spending Account) using the same card. This feature will enhance the patient's ability to pay at point of service in the doctor's office or other care facility.
As UnitedHealth Group prepares to launch a real-time claims adjudication capability, which will enable care providers to process a claim and immediately determine the amount owed by the patient, the ability to pay from any eligible health account at the point of service will become critical. This card will respond to that emerging need.
Portable Personal Health Record
In addition to multiple account access, UnitedHealth Group's new cards will also provide access to an individual's Personal Health Record, making critical health information highly portable. This will allow patients to provide their physicians with secure access to an online medical history summary (currently available via the myuhc.com website). A swipe of the card will give a physician access to the Personal Health Record. That Personal Health Record uses claims data and other data elements to automatically compile a comprehensive summary of medical conditions, medication history, significant medical interventions and laboratory results. In addition, it can be augmented by patients who choose to provide details such as allergies, immunizations and family history.
Line of Credit
Consumers will also soon be able to apply for a line of credit attached to their existing health account debit card to cover eligible health care expenses when funds are not available. This is a common concern for individuals with Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) who may incur medical expenses early in the year, in part because HSAs are funded incrementally over the course of the year. The line of credit will help bridge those early expenses while providing an affordable alternative to putting those charges on a standard personal credit card account.
While many elements of the new card are currently being utilized by UnitedHealth Group-affiliated customers through their existing health benefit cards today, the new fully-integrated card will be made broadly available by UnitedHealth Group beginning in the first quarter 2007.
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group () is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves approximately 70 million individuals nationwide.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
 
(For Immediate Release)
(August 1, 2006)  A nationwide survey of a cross section of Americans reveals that a relatively small number of people use online personal health records to organize their comprehensive health history, despite the growing availability, ease of use and security of this new health tool. The use of such data has been regarded as valuable in helping to improve individual health and is important given the increasing fragmentation of health care delivery and recognition that medical errors result from poor coordination of health care interventions. According to the survey, commissioned by UnitedHealth Group (NYSE:UNH) and conducted by Harris Interactive
Minneapolis
, only 7 percent of U.S. adults use online personal health records and 35 percent of people surveyed were not even aware this resource technology exists.
"We know from experience that consumer friendly, integrated and comprehensive health records result in more informed, safer and cost-effective decisions between patients and their health care professionals. This is especially true when information is needed during emergencies, at night or on weekends when other sources of information may not be available," said Archelle Georgiou, M.D., executive vice president of Specialized Care Services, a UnitedHealth Group business, and a specialist trained in internal medicine. "These survey results clearly demonstrate that while important capabilities now exist, consumers need to be better educated about the availability and value of personal health records and encouraged to use them," Georgiou added.
Improved Quality and Safety
In a related recent development, the prestigious Institute of Medicine (IOM) announced that 1.5 million adverse drug events occur each year. Among its conclusions, the IOM suggested that patients "should learn to keep careful records of all the medications they are taking" and "providers should take steps to educate, consult with, and listen to patients."
Commenting on this issue, Brian Zelickson, M.D., a dermatologist with Skin Specialists, Ltd., in Minneapolis, Minn., said: "Patients who see different doctors for different reasons often have a variety of tests and have often been prescribed multiple medications. Most can't recall the details of their recent medical history. When a patient can provide a comprehensive copy of their recent medical history for an appointment, it gives a better picture of a person's full care, which saves time, increases patient safety and
improves the overall quality of care. For example, I can avoid duplicate testing and can prescribe medication that won't interfere with other drugs the patient is already taking."
Enhanced Convenience and Control
Health plans and other involved parties are increasingly working to develop and provide individuals with access to secure, online records of their medical history. UnitedHealth Group's online Personal Health Record, which individuals can access anytime through the company's secure member portal, myuhc.com
, uses health claim information as the basis for a comprehensive summary of an individual's medical condition, medication history, significant medical interventions and laboratory results. In addition, the Personal Health Record information can be augmented by the patient entering details such as allergies, immunization status and family history. Information from the UnitedHealth Group Personal Health Record is also directly available to medical professionals caring for the individual through secure online access anywhere in the United States with patient consent.
Another key finding of the survey was the observation that 55 percent of those who do not use an online Personal Health Record cite security as their main concern. "We understand that some people are anxious about the security of their health records, and we at UnitedHealth Group have taken precautionary measures to ensure that online personal information is secure and to protect it against unauthorized access," said Reed V. Tuckson, M.D., senior vice president, Consumer Health and Medical Care Advancement, UnitedHealth Group. "We are very encouraged by and supportive of the advancement of national standards and legislation to create industry-wide criteria and protections for this vital health-enhancing information."
About the Survey
The survey was conducted by telephone by Harris Interactive
on behalf of UnitedHealth Group in July, 2006 with a cross section of 1,122 adults in the United States age 18 and over. These results represent a sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points of what they would be if the entire U.S. adult population had they been polled with complete accuracy.
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves approximately 70 million individuals nationwide.
 
(For immediate release)
(July 27, 2006)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) announced it is providing funding to support the development of new medical and health science education programs through grants to the University of California totaling $10 million.
CYPRESS, Calif.
According to UnitedHealth Group Chairman and CEO William W. McGuire, M.D., the charitable contributions are earmarked to support steps toward the creation of programs at UC Riverside and UC Merced because they serve regions identified in a recent University of California study as being medically underserved and subject to significant future shortages of health care professionals.
"UnitedHealth Group is committed to expanding access to health care, and part of that commitment includes fostering new educational opportunities to make certain we have the doctors, nurses and other health care professionals required to meet the growing needs of an aging and diverse population," said Dr. McGuire.
UnitedHealthGroup/University of California
2-2-2
University of California President Robert C. Dynes noted that UnitedHealth Group's contribution comes at a time of continued state budget constraints as well as growing enrollments in the UC system.
"UnitedHealth Group's generous contribution will fill a great need for us in continuing to meet our commitment to our future students and to the communities served by UC Merced and UC Riverside in the San Joaquin Valley and Inland Empire, respectively," said Dynes.
A 2005 study commissioned by UC, ," identified the need to create additional health care education programs in California. It identified the Southern Central Valley and the Inland Empire as areas particularly subject to future health care work force shortages and medically underserved populations.
"Health Science Education, Workforce Needs and Enrollment Planning
The contributions totaling $10 million over a three-year period will be divided equally between UC Riverside and UC Merced for feasibility studies and other activities necessary to establish medical and health science education programs at the two campuses, including building educational capacity by hiring teaching and support staff needed to establish research, course work and classes for future programs.
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves approximately 70 million individuals nationwide.
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
(July 12, 2006)A UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) study has found that individuals in consumer-driven health plans (CDHPs) are more likely to be actively engaged in managing their health and making health care decisions than individuals in more traditional arrangements. While the study sample remains relatively small because of the recent introduction of CDHPs, it is the largest study to date, covering a three-year period and examining more than 50,000 individuals. The results provide solid and measurable examples of how health care spending and consumer behavior can be positively advanced  without adverse effects on health outcomes  when consumers are given the necessary support.
Minneapolis
"These results reinforce the revolutionary impact that the concept of consumerism is having by providing vehicles to effectively transfer knowledge and wealth to consumers so they can make wiser, more financially sound decisions about their health care," said Mike Tarino, CEO of Definity Health, a UnitedHealth Group company and pioneer in consumer-driven health care.
The CDHP study compares cost and utilization trends among approximately 40,000 individuals in high-deductible plans connected to Health Reimbursement Accounts (HRAs) to data from roughly 15,000 individuals enrolled in preferred provider organizations (PPOs). The study period was between 2003 and 2005 and consisted of two sample groups drawn from the same employers. This new data reinforces the results of earlier Definity and UnitedHealth Group studies, which have consistently shown that CDHP enrollees have higher usage of preventive care services and lower tendency to pursue discretionary acute care services.
Notable findings from the three-year study include:
 
 
 
 
"While not yet conclusive, these findings support what we've seen anecdotally for the past several years: when consumers are given more information and responsibility for their health care, they will make efforts to assume more control over decision-making about the care they need in order to pursue the optimum courses of treatment. This in turn can help positively impact their health care outcomes and related costs," Tarino said.
Saving Today for Tomorrow's Expenses
Further UnitedHealth Group research found that consumers with Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) are contributing to their accounts and accumulating money for future health care expenses at higher rates than had been previously anticipated.
The HSA research is based on data from 130,000 members who have opened an HSA with UnitedHealth Group's Exante Bank, the industry's largest HSA administrator. The study found:
 
 
 
Jeff Cava, executive vice president of Human Resources and Administration for the Wendy's restaurant chain, said employees at his company are saving more than many anticipated. Wendy's began offering HSAs in 2005, and by the end of the year employees had accumulated a collective $4 million in their accounts. "We took money that used to go to a third-party payer to help pay health claims, and gave it to employees who will use it to offset their health care costs," he said. "How many other company-sponsored health plans are there that transfer wealth?"
Across UnitedHealth Group, more than 1.75 million individuals are now enrolled in a consumer-driven health plan connected to an HRA or HSA, spanning both the commercial and individual markets. More than 14,000 employers offer a CDHP through a UnitedHealth Group company, and membership sponsored by large, national employers recently topped 1 million individuals.
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves approximately 70 million individuals nationwide.
 
(For Immediate Release)
( UnitedHealthcare, a UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) company, announced today that physicians certified by the American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) who participate in the Board's Practice Improvement Module and Maintenance of Certification programs will receive special credit under the UnitedHealth Premium
MINNEAPOLIS
June 27, 2006) 
sm
designation program, a national performance assessment and consumer decision-support program.
Utilizing science-based, industry-standard criteria, along with guidance from medical specialty societies and expert physicians, the UnitedHealth Premium designation program evaluates care delivery by physicians across 19 medical specialties including several internal medicine disciplines. In addition, the Premium program's performance feedback provides physicians with the opportunity for continuous professional development and improvement, and provides consumers with relevant information to enhance the quality of their health care outcomes.
This advancement in the UnitedHealth Premium program means that internal medicine specialists will receive special recognition and credit for participating in ABIM's Maintenance of Certification and Practice Improvement Module programs. Upon completion, physicians can submit appropriate information to UnitedHealthcare for inclusion in the Premium designation evaluation. Additionally, performance data from UnitedHealthcare can be utilized by internists to support their participation in the ABIM's Practice Improvement programs.
"UnitedHealth Group recognizes and celebrates the leadership of the American Board of Internal Medicine in implementing this meaningful enhancement to the traditional process of board certification, which will improve both the quality and cost effectiveness of clinical care delivery," said Reed V. Tuckson, M.D., UnitedHealth Group's senior vice president of Consumer Health and Medical Care Advancement. "As specialty boards such as the ABIM advance physician leadership that encourages, supports and evaluates continuous professional development, new opportunities become available for collaboration to achieve our common goal of providing
high-quality, affordable health care for consumers. As such, we take this opportunity to urge all eligible physicians to participate in the maintenance of certification programs offered by their specialty boards."
"UnitedHealthcare is deeply committed to supporting physicians who demonstrate their professionalism through board certification, practice measurement and continuous quality improvement," said Lewis Sandy, M.D., UnitedHealthcare's executive vice president for Clinical Strategies and Policy. "We are confident that physicians who participate in the ABIM Maintenance of Certification and Performance Improvement Module programs are meaningfully enhancing quality and appropriateness of clinical care delivery and should be recognized in our Premium designation program. Patients and healthcare purchasers deserve to know about the quality of care delivered, and physicians who demonstrate a commitment to quality through ongoing engagement with their specialty boards should be highlighted and recognized."
About UnitedHealthcare
UnitedHealthcare (www.unitedhealthcare.com) provides a full spectrum of consumer-oriented health benefit plans and services, helping approximately 25 million individual consumers nationwide achieve improved health and well-being through various health service systems. UnitedHealthcare arranges access to quality, affordable care with more than 500,000 physicians and care professionals and 4,600 hospitals across America. UnitedHealthcare is one of the businesses of UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH), a diversified Fortune 50 health and well-being company.
Evercare Contact:
Dominick Washington
Director of Media Relations
(952) 936-1757
(For immediate release)
(June 26, 2006)  Evercare, a leading provider of health plans for frail elderly, disabled and chronically ill individuals in the United States, today announced that it has surpassed 100,000 enrollees across 35 states. For almost 20 years, Evercare has been dedicated to enhancing the quality of life and optimizing the well-being of its served populations, whether in the community or in nursing homes, through a variety of Medicare, Medicaid and private-pay long-term care plans.
MINNEAPOLIS
Evercare CEO, John Mach, M.D. said, "Our growth has been driven largely by our ability to meet the needs of people who require a holistic approach to their health that emphasizes coordination of multiple treatments, health maintenance and preventative care. Our focus is on keeping them healthier, avoiding trips to the hospital, and enabling them to function and live more independently. Evercare's growth was also boosted by the advent of Special Needs Plans, which Congress and CMS created for better coordinated care of vulnerable populations."
Evercare was founded in 1987 by two Minnesota nurse practitioners who sought to reduce fragmentation in geriatric care by creating a model of care that emphasized collaborative relationships with their patients, caregivers and health care professionals. Their philosophy and shared passion laid the foundation for the nation's largest single care coordination program for the frail elderly, disabled and chronically ill. The Company received Medicare demonstration status for its plans in 1995 and worked with state long-term care Medicaid systems to develop programs that integrate and coordinate medical, home and community-based services.
Chronically ill individuals with five or more medical conditions made up only 20 percent of all Medicare beneficiaries in 2004, but accounted for over two-thirds of the program's $302 billion in costs. In any single year, such beneficiaries are likely to fill up to 53 prescriptions, visit emergency rooms a dozen times or more, and require hospitalization at least five times. The traditional Medicare and Medicaid fee-for-service systems were structured primarily to provide acute care, not to meet the needs of the chronically ill through a coordinated approach. This fragmentation of care can lead to poor health outcomes that are draining for patients and physicians alike and are unnecessarily costly. In fact, according to a recent study that examined costs associated with caring for chronically ill seniors enrolled in Medicare between 2000 and 2003, $40 billion, or nearly one third of what is spent for their care, is potentially unnecessary. (Dartmouth Atlas Project, 2006)
The Evercare Approach: Meeting the Needs of Each Enrollee
Evercare integrates medical, health, and social support services to enhance enrollees' access to health care and their quality of life. Evercare enrollees are served by care managers or nurse practitioners who develop and manage customized care programs. They coordinate multiple services; facilitate better communication between physicians, institutions, patients and their families; and help ensure effective integration of treatments.
In the community, Evercare plans provide a care manager who works with the family, the primary care physician, other health care professionals and aging organizations to help ensure the best use of health care and community resources. In the nursing home, Evercare plans increase preventive care through a collaborative approach involving an Evercare nurse practitioner and contracted nursing facility staff and teams of health care professionals. In most cases, Evercare plans provide enrollees with more services and coverage than regular Medicare or Medicaid alone.
According to American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging (AAHSA) President and CEO, Larry Minnix, the Evercare approach is an excellent example of a pioneering solution of coordinated, effective health care delivery.
"Under regular Medicaid and Medicare, health service delivery is fragmented, making it difficult for the aging, chronically ill and disabled to receive the care they need," says Minnix. "Bringing together separate medical, health-related and social services offered under these programs results in better health outcomes, more satisfied enrollees, and lower overall costs for everyone."
Evercare also has earned consistently high satisfaction rates among enrollees and their responsible parties even while expanding its reach. Evercare's plan for nursing home residents achieved 97 percent family satisfaction in a 2005 survey of responsible parties, and has been consistently over 95 percent for the last seven years. In a 2005 survey of enrollees in Evercare's community-based plans, on average, 91 percent of enrollees and their responsible parties were satisfied and 95 percent intended to continue their membership with Evercare. (Market Strategies, 2005)
Providing High-Quality, Cost-Effective Care to Vulnerable Populations
Evercare has grown from 64,731 enrollees in December 2003 to more than 100,000 enrollees today by reaching out to individuals in danger of being overlooked by the health care system. Community enrollment totals nearly 70,000; and more than 30,000 nursing home patients are currently benefiting from Evercare.
Offerings include Special Needs Plans for those in nursing homes and for people with Medicare and Medicaid ("Dual Eligibles") as well as Medicare Advantage plans for people with Medicare only living in the community; and integrated Medicare-Medicaid plans offered through states' Medicaid programs. Evercare nursing home and community Special Needs Plans include Medicare "Part D" prescription drug coverage. Evercare
TM
Palliative and Hospice services support patients and families coping with advanced, life-limiting illnesses. Evercare also offers Evercare Connections Evercare
TM
Solutions for Caregivers, a service that helps people caring for an aging relative or friend navigate the health care system and obtain the appropriate care and services. Additional offerings include Evercare's Health Plan for People on Dialysis.
Research demonstrates that Evercare's approach to care results in greater access to medical and non-medical services, better health outcomes, and lower cost to the government:
 
 
 
 
 
A Proven Leader in Coordinated Care
Evercare measures success by the quality of care delivered to its 100,000 enrollees. The largest business of its kind, Evercare has been internationally recognized for its innovation and success in improving enrollees' health and managing care costs.
Evercare served as a key precedent for the Special Needs Plans (SNP) created under the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003. A leader in the field, Evercare has more SNPs than any other health plan provider. Evercare has contracted with more than 1,000 nursing facilities and is a major employer of nurse practitioners and nurse care managers.
 
 
 
"As the baby boomer generation ages, Evercare is poised for still greater achievement, both by helping improve care for more people in states we currently serve and by expanding to new states," said Dr. Mach. "There also are near-term avenues of growth as the integration of UnitedHealth Group and PacifiCare Health Systems continues and our parent company grows and evolves to serve a changing marketplace even better."
A Stronger Online Presence Through www.Evercarehealthplans.com
To serve the growing Evercare community better, Evercare recently launched its newly designed Web site, www.evercarehealthplans.com. Enrollees, prospective members, health care professionals, state and federal government officials and community-based organizations will all have access to useful information and tools on the site. A product finder will help current and prospective enrollees find the Evercare offerings that best serve their needs. Health care professionals can access the up-to-date forms and contact information they require, and payers can find everything they need to know about partnering with Evercare. In future releases of the Web site, Web site visitors will be able to enroll online and assess their health risks. The Web site was developed based on extensive consumer input and will allow Evercare to build, maintain and enhance strong relationships with all its stakeholders as it continues to grow.
About Evercare
Evercare coordinates health care and well-being services for the frail elderly, chronically ill, and disabled in the home, the community and skilled nursing facilities. Started in 1987, Evercare today serves more than 100,000 people nationwide through a variety of Medicaid, Medicare, and private-pay health plans. Evercare is part of Ovations, a division of UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) dedicated to the health care needs of over-50 Americans. For more information about Evercare, call 1-866-772-0859 (TTY 1-888-685-8480) or visit www.evercarehealthplans.com.
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group (www.unitedhealthgroup.com) is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves approximately 70 million individuals nationwide.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption of or costs of medical services; heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers; events that may negatively affect our contract with AARP; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; funding risks with respect to revenue received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, legislative activity and government regulation and review of our industry; potential consequences surrounding findings of our ongoing internal investigation, investigation by a committee of our independent directors and informal SEC inquiry into our stock option granting practices, as well as a subpoena from the office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York requesting documents relating to stock option grants since 1999 and a request from the Internal Revenue Service for documents relating to the compensation of certain executive officers; uncertainty of results of pending civil litigation relating to our stock option granting practices; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service providers; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care provider disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; and anticipated benefits of acquiring PacifiCare may not be realized. This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
(
For immediate release)
 
 
 
UnitedHealthcare, the health plan subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH), has released its first-ever report card that rates quality of care and affordability among 20 of its contracted hospitals throughout Colorado.
DENVER, CO (June 1, 2006) 
The report rates the hospitals by measuring 150 medical procedures, including colon surgery, treatment of pneumonia, viral infection and chest pain, cesarean section, disc surgery, knee and hip replacement, and obesity procedures. Each procedure's quality rating is based on patient volume, complication and mortality rates, failure to rescue or death from complications, ICU physician staffing, and computer-assisted order entry.
"As quality and cost variation in the health care system continues to increase, especially among hospitals, practicing physicians need resources and tools to make more informed decisions for their patients," said Jay Ogsbury, M.D., a neurosurgeon and co-medical director of Colorado Preferred Physician Organization. "The information included in UnitedHealthcare's Hospital Report Card is a great first step in making health care quality and cost more transparent for the physician community."
The initial method of measurement is based on criteria established by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and The Leapfrog Group, with data provided by Medicare and the Colorado Department of Health Services. The report cards are being shared with UnitedHealthcare's contracted physicians.
Quality designations are represented by stars: one star for a facility rated among the lowest 25 percent, two stars for a facility rated among the middle 50 percent, and three stars for a facility scoring among the highest 25 percent. A hospital must have at least 20 cases for any particular procedure in order to be assigned a quality designation.
2-2-2
Hospital Report Card
The cost evaluation is derived using paid-claims data received by UnitedHealthcare over the past 18 months. The claims data is case-mix and severity-adjusted to normalize average cost for comparison purposes.
"Programs that create transparency in quality and cost for health care services are part of UnitedHealthcare's ongoing commitment to provide access to affordable, quality health care," said Craig Keyes, M.D., chief executive officer of UnitedHealthcare of Colorado. "In light of the wide variation in quality and cost among hospitals, we've created an innovative, easy-to-use report card that we believe our contracted physicians and hospitals will find valuable in ensuring that their patients have access to the best care possible."
Jeff Selberg, chief executive officer of Exempla Healthcare and current Chair of Colorado Hospital Association, said: "Exempla Healthcare is committed to providing the safest, highest-quality health care. We are working diligently to enhance our processes and systems to ensure that the information available to the public accurately reflects the quality of care we provide. We are pleased to see that Exempla Healthcare's continued efforts to improve patient care and service have earned multiple quality designations and that UnitedHealthcare has ranked Exempla Healthcare as one of the highest-quality and most cost-effective hospitals in Colorado."
"A 1999 report by the Institute of Medicine, which estimated that between 44,000 and 98,000 Americans die each year as a result of medical errors, underscores how important it is to improve accountability in the health care delivery system," added Keyes. "In addition, we feel that the report can help promote the learning and adoption of best practices among our network hospitals and offer an incentive for our providers to continuously improve their performance to the benefit of our members."
About UnitedHealthcare
UnitedHealthcare () provides a full spectrum of consumer-oriented health benefit plans and services, helping more than 25 million individual consumers nationwide achieve improved health and well-being through various health service systems. UnitedHealthcare arranges access to quality, affordable care with more than 500,000 physicians and care professionals and 4,600 hospitals across America. UnitedHealthcare is one of the businesses of UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH), a diversified 50 health and well-being company.
www.unitedhealthcare.com
Fortune
 
(For Immediate Release)
(May 25, 2006) - Ingenix, a leading health information company, announced today that it has agreed in principle to acquire NWH, Inc. (NWH), the parent company of health care payer services organization Electronic Network Systems, Inc. (ENS), and has completed the acquisition of Claredi Corporation (Claredi), a leading provider of e-commerce software solutions, implementation and consulting services to the health care industry.
MINNEAPOLIS
Pursuant to the definitive merger agreement, Ingenix would acquire all of the outstanding shares of NWH for a cash price of $18.24 per share, or approximately $54 million. The transaction, which is subject to NWH stockholder approval and other customary closing conditions, is expected to close during the third quarter of 2006. Terms of the Claredi transaction were not disclosed.
"This announcement is good news for the entire health care industry," said Richard Anderson, chief executive officer of Ingenix. "We intend to create the next generation of connectivity by combining ENS and Claredi assets and resources with Ingenix capabilities in coding, claims editing, revenue cycle management and health care transaction management. This combination will facilitate the creation of intelligent electronic connectivity tools for use by physicians, hospitals and payers in an open network. Our focus will be to enhance the health care system's affordability and usability by providing real-time Internet connections among the participants in health care. This will increase efficiency, help physicians get quicker payment of claims and assist payers in reducing the amount of rework and rejected claims."
The combination will enhance the use of connectivity and interoperability technology across the health care industry:
 
 
 
Terrence S. Cassidy, founder and chief executive officer of NWH, said, "Ingenix provides us with an outstanding opportunity to grow our business and to improve the value we bring our customers. We will now have access to sufficient capital and a wide array of industry-leading technology to construct the next-generation Health Care Exchange."
Dr. Kepa Zubeldia, president and chief technology officer of Claredi, said, "Like Claredi, Ingenix has demonstrated a clear, long-term commitment to improving interoperability in the health care system. We are excited about joining their organization. We now have an opportunity to realize our vision on an even broader scale to the benefit of the health care industry."
About Ingenix
Ingenix, a wholly-owned subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group, Inc. (NYSE: UNH), provides products and services to a diverse customer base within the health care community. Organizations rely on its innovative technology to improve the delivery and operations of their business. More information about Ingenix and its products and services can be obtained at .
http://www.ingenix.com
About NWH, Inc. and Electronic Network Systems, Inc.
NWH, Inc. (Nasdaq: ), a holding and strategic resource company, owns and operates Electronic Network Systems, Inc. (ENS), which offers Internet and e-commerce connectivity between thousands of health care providers such as physicians, hospitals, clinics, practice management software vendors and third-party commercial payers. More information about ENS and its products and services can be obtained at
NWIR
http://www.enshealth.com.
About Claredi Corporation
Claredi Corporation (Claredi), a Salt Lake City-based company that pioneered the concept of health care transaction validation, provides comprehensive electronic data interchange solutions that enable health care organizations to easily connect with trading partners, ensure the quality of data exchange and efficiently manage the ongoing evolution of their health care transactions and messaging. More information about Claredi and its products and services can be obtained at
http://www.claredi.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our present expectations or projections. A list and description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
UnitedHealth Pharmaceutical Solutions, a division of UnitedHealthcare, is launching the second phase of its Half Tablet Program, a first-of-its-kind pill-splitting program designed to make medications more affordable for consumers and employers.
MINNEAPOLIS (May 18, 2006) 
The Half Tablet Program was designed to support members who are actively looking for ways to save money on prescription medications. The program is voluntary, and members who choose to participate pay a reduced copayment for these medications.
According to Tim Heady, chief executive officer of UnitedHealth Pharmaceutical Solutions, the Half Tablet Program offers a potential savings of up to 1 to 2 percent of total drug spend, and members can save up to $300 annually.
The cost savings are possible because the medications included in this program have "flat" or similar pricing across dosages and are generally prescribed for one dosage daily. For example, a 20-milligram tablet of Lipitor, a drug used to lower cholesterol, is priced the same as a 40-milligram tablet. A member may purchase a 40-milligram tablet, and then split the medication for his or her daily dosage amount.
"Consumers are asking what they can do to bring their prescription drug costs down and are turning to their health plans to offer innovative, cost-saving solutions," said Heady. "The Half Tablet Program helps provide better access to necessary drugs and can improve compliance with these medicines by making them more affordable to more people. Better medication compliance can lead to better medical outcomes and healthier members."
"This program is an excellent example of how health care consumers can easily lower what they spend on prescriptions drugs and help ensure ongoing compliance with important therapies," said Dr Lewis Sandy, UnitedHealthcare's Executive Vice President, Clinical Strategies and Policy. "It also encourages people to continue an open dialogue with their physicians regarding their health, which is a critical component of a patient's overall well-being."
UnitedHealth Pharmaceutical Solutions/Half Tablet Program
2-2-2-2
According to the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, spending on prescription drugs in the United States rises more than 10 percent a year. Patients who pay for their own medications can reduce their drug bills by up to 50 percent with pill splitting. The U.S. Veterans Administration hospitals and some state Medicaid programs also ask patients who are prescribed certain medications to split pills. This practice helped the Veterans Administration save almost $50 million in 2003 on prescription drugs.
As a requirement of the program, a member's physician must write a new prescription that is double the dosage and half the quantity of the medication, with instructions to take a half tablet rather than a full tablet. Physicians determine if splitting pills is appropriate for their patients.
UnitedHealth Pharmaceutical Solutions introduced the Half Tablet Program in March 2005 with a pilot program in UnitedHealthcare's Wisconsin health plan. Results of the pilot led to the national launch of the program in the fourth quarter of 2005 to fully insured UnitedHealthcare members who were prescribed statin medications. UnitedHealth Pharmaceutical Solutions has found that 11 percent of members whose physicians prescribed one of the medications included in the program chose to participate, and the company has filled requests for more than 28,000 free pill splitters.
The second phase of the program will invite members of commercial fully insured and many self-funded groups to consider splitting pills for one of 16 different medications in five different therapeutic categories: ACE inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, anti-depressants, lipid-lowering medications and antivirals. The 16 identified medications have no change in their efficacy if they are split. The program does not include all medications in a specific therapeutic class; only those medications determined to be appropriate for splitting are included.
"My patients appreciate the Half Tablet Program because the money they save on the reduced co-pays helps them to stretch their health care budget further," said Dr. Robert Fox, a practicing family physician in Appleton, Wis. "Patients are more likely to take prescribed medications when it is more affordable. That accessibility leads to better health outcomes, which is always my goal."
About UnitedHealthcare
UnitedHealthcare (www.unitedhealthcare.com) provides a full spectrum of consumer-oriented health benefit plans and services, helping approximately 25 million individual consumers nationwide achieve improved health and well-being through various health service systems. UnitedHealthcare arranges access to quality, affordable care with more than 500,000 physicians and care professionals and 4,600 hospitals across America. UnitedHealthcare is one of the businesses of UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH), a diversified 50 health and well-being company.
Fortune
 
(For Immediate Release)
(May 2, 2006)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) announced today that its Board of Directors has renewed its Stock Repurchase Program under which up to 140 million shares of the Company's common stock may be repurchased. As of March 31, 2006, the Company had approximately 1.4 billion shares of common stock outstanding. The Board views the Stock Repurchase Program as an important tool in the continued creation of shareholder value, given the current and future prospects for UnitedHealth Group's businesses.
MINNEAPOLIS
This action represents the seventh renewal of the continuing Share Repurchase Program initiated in November 1997. Under the program, the Company has repurchased an aggregate of approximately 880 million shares for an aggregate cost of $15.8 billion and a weighted average cost of $18 per share, on a split-adjusted basis. Share repurchases have totaled more than 36 million shares to date in 2006.
UnitedHealth Group said that such purchases may be made from time to time at prevailing prices in the open market, by block purchase or in private transactions and may be discontinued at any time. The repurchases will be subject to restrictions relating to volume, price and timing. The repurchased shares will be available for reissue pursuant to employee stock option and purchase plans and for other corporate purposes. The company will fund repurchases with internally generated funds and existing financing capacity.
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group () is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves approximately 70 million individuals nationwide.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our present expectations or projections. A list and description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
 UnitedHealth Group and the American Diabetes Association (ADA) announced today that they have formed a collaboration that combines the respective strengths, competencies and expertise of these two leading health organizations in an initiative to help people with diabetes and their physicians achieve optimal health outcomes. Diabetes is the fifth leading cause of death by disease in the United States and affects nearly 21 million children and adults, or seven percent of the U.S. population.
Minneapolis and Alexandria, VA (April 4, 2006)
"We are very excited about the significant potential this relationship with the American Diabetes Association represents," said Reed Tuckson, MD, senior vice president, Consumer Health and Medical Care Advancement for UnitedHealth Group. "Based on our extensive experience in organizing health care services on behalf of people with diabetes, we clearly recognize the importance of the ADA's capabilities in helping to improve the lives of people affected by this challenging disease. We highly respect the ADA's scientific expertise, the credibility of their clinical programs with physicians, and their unparalleled ability to provide physicians and their patients with meaningful information that supports their efforts in managing this disease."
This collaboration will result in improved patient access to valuable health tools and information; identify physician best practices that lead to the provision of quality diabetes care; and enhance continuing medical education to achieve the highest quality of diabetes care.
"We are extremely pleased to have the opportunity to work with UnitedHealth Group in this joint initiative," said Robert A. Rizza, MD, President, Medicine and Science, American Diabetes Association. "We know that the vast majority of patients with diabetes are treated by primary care providers and our relationship with UnitedHealth Group will provide an important audience for the interventions ADA has developed, as well as those we will jointly develop. UnitedHealth Group's ability to reach people through a variety of effective communications channels will enable us to integrate our efforts to produce valuable tools that will benefit their members with diabetes, as well as their network of physicians."
The collaboration will focus on three key elements that will begin this spring.
 
 
 
"As a result of the combination of these programs and the strengths of our two organizations, physicians and their patients will receive meaningful support in their efforts to achieve optimal health outcomes in the treatment of diabetes," said Dr. Rizza. "As we collaborate on these initiatives we fully expect to discover additional ways to leverage the expertise of our organizations to enhance our shared mission to reach consumers and improve health behaviors for a better quality of life."
About the American Diabetes Association (ADA)
The American Diabetes Association is the nation's premier voluntary health organization supporting diabetes research, information and advocacy. Founded in 1940, the Association has offices in every region of the country, providing services to hundreds of communities. For more
information, please visit www.diabetes.org or call 1-800-DIABETES (1-800-342-2383). Information is available in English and Spanish.
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves approximately 65 million individuals nationwide. Learn more about UnitedHealth Group at .
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
UnitedHealthcare, a subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH), today announced a unique partnership with leading African American academic health centers and business leaders to implement health solutions for employees and faculties of Historically Black Colleges and Universities.
MINNEAPOLIS (March 14, 2006) 
"UnitedHealthcare is pleased to collaborate with North Carolina Mutual and AV International to offer an affordable health-enhancing benefits program designed specifically for historically black academic institutions," said Reed Tuckson, M.D., senior vice president, Consumer Health and Medical Care Advancement at UnitedHealth Group and former president of a minority academic health university. "We are especially excited by this opportunity to combine our expertise in wellness and care facilitation services with the special knowledge and experience of African American academic medical centers. Together we can make a real difference in helping people make better health decisions and getting the care they need."
African American Employee Benefit Solutions (AAEBS),
According to John Maupin, D.D.S., president of Meharry Medical College: "Historically Black Colleges and Universities have struggled valiantly to offer affordable and effective health care to their campuses  a struggle made more difficult because of the disparities in health and medical care outcomes experienced by their communities. This partnership represents the first time a major health company such as UnitedHealthcare has incorporated the expertise of the black medical community in the design and operation of products to meet our specific needs."
The new AAEBS plans focus on providing affordable access to a comprehensive suite of services that includes medical, vision, dental, life, disability and behavioral-health benefits. In addition, based on the input of the black college community, integrates health promotion and disease prevention initiatives recommended by minority physician experts into the core offering focusing on conditions such as asthma, cancer, diabetes, heart disease, stroke and sickle cell anemia.
African American Employee Benefit Solutions
"Unfortunately, health disparities are but one of the difficulties faced by African American communities," said Arthell Davis, Vice President of Group Operations, North Carolina Mutual, the oldest and largest insurance company with roots in the African American community. "There are also many disparities related to overall financial welfare and with North Carolina Mutual's experience in the life insurance arena, this partnership is able to offer services that focus on the total health of our community, including its financial well-being."
"HBCUs are vital national resources," said Andre Duggin, AV International CEO and Chairman of the Board. "We know from our experience in working with minority businesses in insurance designs and risk management interventions how important it is to design products that are tailored to meet the special challenges faced by the administrators of these institutions. We have designed AAEBS to do just that."
"The students and faculty of the Historically Black Colleges and Universities are motivated survivors and self-achievers," said Tuckson. "We look forward to providing them with effective tools and supportive services that assist them in maximizing their health as they work to transform their communities."
About UnitedHealthcare
UnitedHealthcare (www.unitedhealthcare.com) provides a full spectrum of consumer-oriented health benefit plans and services, helping 24 million individual consumers nationwide achieve improved health and well-being through various health service systems. UnitedHealthcare arranges access to quality, affordable care with more than 500,000 physicians and care professionals and 4,600 hospitals across America. UnitedHealthcare is one of the businesses of UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH), a diversified Fortune50 health and well-being company.
About Meharry Medical College
Meharry Medical College is the nation's largest private, independent historically black institution dedicated solely to educating health professionals. The College is particularly well known for its uniquely nurturing, highly effective educational programs; emerging preeminence in health disparities research; culturally sensitive, evidence-based health services; and significant contribution to the diversity of the nation's health professions workforce. Black Issues in Higher Education's ranking of institutions annually lists Meharry as a leading national educator of African Americans with M.D. and D.D.S. degrees, and Ph.D. degrees in the biomedical sciences.
About AV International
AV International is one of the largest, minority controlled insurances firm in the country and the parent company of several highly integrated service firms specializing in risk management, insurance and employee benefit consulting and administration on a national, regional and local basis. AVI has experience in both fully insured and self-insured products and distributes through brokers.
About North Carolina Mutual Insurance
North Carolina Mutual, which offers life and dental insurance products to groups and individuals, is the nation's oldest and largest insurance company with roots in the African American community. NCM remains one of only a few minority owned insurance companies offering employee benefits and has been involved in the planning and design of the new partnership from its inception.
 
(For Immediate Release)
- UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (NYSE: UNH) announced today that it has priced and issued $3 billion in fixed income securities in the following tranches:
MINNEAPOLIS (March 3, 2006)
$650,000,000 of 3 Year Floating Rate Notes due March 2, 2009;
$750,000,000 of 5 Year Fixed Rate Notes due March 15, 2011;
$750,000,000 of 10 Year Fixed Rate Notes, due March 15, 2016;
$850,000,000 of 30 Year Fixed Rate Notes, due March 15, 2036.
The pricing on the securities was as follows:
 
Issuance proceeds will be used to repay commercial paper borrowings that were used primarily to finance the cash portion of the consideration for the PacifiCare acquisition, which UnitedHealth Group completed on December 20, 2005. The notes are rated A, (stable), A2, (stable) and A, (stable) by Standard & Poor's, Moody's Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, respectively.
"The very strong demand for each tranche of this landmark fixed income offering for UnitedHealth Group reflects the reputation that the Company has with fixed income investors," said Robert LoBue, head of high grade and high yield syndicate from Joint Book Runner JP Morgan Securities. "The offerings of the 3-year floating rate note and the 30-year fixed rate note, for which there was very strong demand, have brought new term fixed income investors into UnitedHealth Group
securities," said David Trahan, managing director of investment grade syndicate at Citigroup Global Markets, Inc., also a Joint Book Runner on the transaction.
UnitedHealth Group treasurer Robert Oberrender concluded, "We are pleased with investor receptivity to this offering. The tranches issued today further expand our investor base and allow us to continue to improve our overall match of liability durations with the assets of our businesses. By reducing interest rate risk through asset/liability management, we are able to focus our energies on building value in our core business of making the health system work better, through effective health resource organization, large scale health transaction processing, and the application of data and informatics in a health care environment."
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group (www.unitedhealthgroup.com) is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves approximately 65 million individuals nationwide.
 
(For Immediate Release)
(December 21, 2005)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) announced that it has received all necessary approvals to complete its merger with PacifiCare Health Systems, Inc (PacifiCare) (NYSE: PHS), and that the merger was completed following the close of business yesterday.
Minneapolis, Minnesota
Under the merger agreement, PacifiCare stockholders receive $21.50 in cash and 1.10 shares of UnitedHealth Group common stock for each share of PacifiCare common stock.
"We look forward to combining the resources of our companies and leveraging our strengths to advance health and well-being on behalf of seniors, employers, consumers and health care providers in the western United States, as well as nationally," stated Mr. Howard Phanstiel, chief executive officer of PacifiCare. Mr. Phanstiel, who will assume an additional role as executive vice president for UnitedHealth Group, further noted that the combination of the assets and resources of the respective companies will expand their opportunities and bring new products and services to the diverse market segments and geographic areas the company serves.
Dr. William W. McGuire, chairman and chief executive officer of UnitedHealth Group, said "We appreciate the diligence and effort taken by the various regulatory agencies involved in the review and approval of this merger. All of us recognize the importance of our activities relative to the health and well-being of our society, and take seriously the commitments we have made to help advance access, quality, affordability and simplicity in health care for all the people we serve."
Management will host a conference call today at 4:15 p.m. eastern standard time to review financial projections in light of the completed merger and update investors and analysts on recent business developments, including the proposed acquisition of John Deere Health Care and continuing progress in the commencement of its Medicare Prescription Drug Plan programs. Participants can access the conference call by dialing 800-515-2563 (United States) or 706-679-5262 (International). The
conference name is UnitedHealth Group. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Investor Information page of the Company's Web site (www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The webcast replay of the call will be available on the same site for one week following the live call. The conference call replay can also be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID #3720200.
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group () is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves approximately 65 million individuals nationwide.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our present expectations or projections. A list and description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
(December 6, 2005)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) announced today that its UnitedHealthcare subsidiary has signed a definitive agreement with Deere and Company to acquire its John Deere Health Care business. This transaction will provide John Deere Health Care customers with significantly expanded access to national medical care resources while extending UnitedHealthcare's services to new areas in the Midwest.
Minneapolis
John Deere Health Care provides an array of quality health care and benefit programs to customers who are located principally in Iowa, western and central Illinois and sections of Tennessee, which are service areas largely outside of those presently addressed by UnitedHealthcare. Continuity of services will be central to the new company, which will continue to be led by the current senior management of John Deere Health Care and remain headquartered in its existing facilities in Moline, Illinois. The company will focus on programs around health access and facilitation, quality advancement, and the use of new technologies to better support consumers and care providers. In that regard, John Deere Health Care members will gain access to the UnitedHealthcare nationwide system of health care providers, expanding the available access to care. Additionally, UnitedHealthcare will introduce established services and capabilities to further help Medicare and Medicaid enrollees, pre-Medicare retirees, under and uninsured individuals, and patients with chronic and complex illness.
Completion of the transaction is subject to regulatory review and is expected in the first quarter of 2006.
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group () is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 55 million individuals nationwide.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Parent Company: Deere & Company
John Deere (Deere & Company - NYSE:DE) is the world's leading manufacturer of agricultural and forestry equipment; a leading supplier of equipment used in lawn, grounds and turf care; and a major manufacturer of construction equipment and engines used in heavy equipment. Additionally, John Deere provides financial services and other related activities that support the core businesses. Since it was founded in 1837, the company has established a worldwide reputation of quality products and services providing performance that endures.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our present expectations or projections. A list and description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
(For Immediate Release)
(Nov. 7, 2005)  In an effort designed to enhance the long-term savings potential of Health Savings Accounts (HSA) and expand the purchasing power of health care consumers, Exante Financial Services (Exante) today announced that it will offer new investment options for consumers with HSAs. By assembling a broad selection of investment options, Exante hopes to further empower health care consumers and give them greater control over their health care spending. Exante Bank, which was chartered by UnitedHealth Group in 2002, provides health-related financial services and is one of the only financial institutions with deeply integrated health care expertise.
New York, NY
Beginning January 2006, consumers with an HSA deposit account at Exante Bank will have the opportunity to invest their tax-advantaged HSA assets in a broad array of highly rated, independent investment options. These funds have been selected to support a consumer's strategy of growth and risk tolerance, consistent with the philosophy of encouraging long-term saving for future health care expenses.
Al Meginniss of Elgin, Ill., a consumer who opened an account with Exante in July, said he's excited to have such investment options available and hopes to take advantage of them after getting a better sense of how frequently he's using versus saving his HSA funds. "Rather than have the money sit there, I would love to eventually move a few thousand dollars into an investment of some type," he said. "Although, thanks to Exante, right now I'm getting a very good return on my money anyway  4 percent, try to find that somewhere else."
The new investment options offer account holders a high-quality fund selection with an average Morningstar rating of more than 4.0. Funds include: John Hancock Classic Value (PZFVX); Vanguard Wellington (VWELX); Neuberger Berman Fasciano (NBFSX); Vanguard Global Equity (VHGEX); Vanguard S&P 500 Index (VFINX); Federated US Government (FIGTX); Pimco Real Return Fund (PRTNX); and Federated Master Trust Money Market (FMTXX).
"The addition of these mutual funds will give consumers greater choice and control over how they manage their health care finances and HSA assets," said Philip J. Philliou, chief product and strategy officer for Exante Financial Services. "As one of the country's only banks completely dedicated to the
health care industry, our unique expertise in both health care and financial services allows us to offer consumers highly specialized services at a time when individuals are being asked to play a more prominent and active role in their health care."
Exante's diverse and independent investment offerings are unique in the industry, since many HSA administrators have elected to align with a single or more focused group of proprietary fund families. Exante will regularly review funds to ensure a high quality selection is available to meet account holder expectations. The investment capability will be a standard feature of the HSA deposit account, with mutual fund investments available to individuals with balances over $1,000.
Individuals will be able to access, monitor and change their investment options with the click of a mouse via online tools that are fully integrated with their HSA. Additionally, account information is available to Exante customers through toll-free customer service, interactive voice response and the Web, so account holders can easily set up contributions to their account, check their current balance and pay their health care bills. Consumers can pay for qualified health services from their HSAs using bank drafts, debit cards, and Web and automatic payment options.
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., the company offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 55 million individuals nationwide. UnitedHealth Group ranks No. 40 in the 500 and was ranked No. 1 in magazine's 2005 list of America's Most Admired Health Care Companies.
Fortune
Fortune
About Exante Financial Services
Exante Financial Services (Exante) is focused on enhancing and serving the health care financial needs of insurers, benefits administrators, consumers and health care professionals. Exante offers Health Savings Accounts, card technology and a host of electronic solutions. Exante Bank, member FDIC, is a Utah-state chartered industrial loan corporation located in Salt Lake City, chartered in January 2002 by UnitedHealth Group. Exante provides comprehensive consumer health financial services capabilities to 16 independent health administrators in addition to UnitedHealth Group and its operating businesses. Together, these clients represent over 700,000 accounts managed by Exante.
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
(Sept. 28, 2005)  Ingenix, a wholly owned subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH), has been selected by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to help improve the effectiveness and speed of safety evaluations for pharmaceutical agents. The Ingenix program is built around a team of leading epidemiologists, complex analytic tools, and the largest and most complete longitudinal patient database available today. It will work with the FDA to monitor the safety of new drugs as well as conduct ad hoc safety studies on established pharmaceutical agents.
BASKING RIDGE, NJ
"We are pleased to provide our extensive data resources and analytic capabilities to help the FDA respond to the urgent need for improved drug safety," said Terri Madison, PhD, MPH, president of i3 Drug Safety which will lead the Ingenix program. "These proactive efforts should enhance the FDA's ability to identify and assess issues and potential risks related to pharmaceutical agents in a more timely fashion than ever before."
About Ingenix
A leading health information company, Ingenix provides products and services to a diverse customer base within the health care community. Organizations rely on its innovative technology to improve the delivery and operations of their business. More information about Ingenix and its products and services can be obtained at .
www.ingenix.com
About i3
i3, a global Ingenix company, provides integrated scientific strategies and solutions throughout pharmaceutical product lifecycle. It includes: i3 Research, a therapeutically specialized contract research organization; i3 Drug Safety, which is engaged in pharmacovigilance and epidemiology; i3 Statprobe, a technologically focused provider of comprehensive data services; i3 Pharma Resourcing, a world-class staffing partner; i3 Magnifi, which provides health economics and outcomes services; and i3 DLN, a provider of certified medical education. i3 helps companies gain sharper insights that lead to improved patient care. For more information, visit .
www.i3global.com
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
This Investor Conference book may contain statements, estimates or projections that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the potential consequences of the findings announced on October 15, 2006 of the investigation by an Independent Committee of directors of our stock option programs (including the consequences of our determination that the Company's financial statements for the years ended 1994 to 2005, the interim periods contained therein, the quarter ended March 31, 2006, and all earnings and news releases, including for the quarters ended June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006, and similar communications issued by the Company for such periods and the related reports of the Company's independent registered public accounting firm should not be relied upon, the consequences of the resulting restatement of our financial statements for those periods, and delays in filing our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the second and third quarters of 2006), related governmental reviews by the SEC, IRS, U.S. Senate Finance Committee, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and Minnesota Attorney General, and related shareholder derivative actions, shareholder demands and purported securities class actions, a purported notice of acceleration with respect to certain of the Company's debt securities based upon an alleged event of default under the indenture governing such securities, and recent management and director changes, and the potential impact of each of these matters on our business, credit ratings and debt; increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption of or costs of medical services; heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers; events that may negatively affect our contract with AARP; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; funding risks with respect to revenues received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, legislative activity and government regulation and review of our industry; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service providers; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care provider disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; and anticipated benefits of acquiring PacifiCare that may not be realized.
Forward-Looking Statements
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
For further information about the financial performance of UnitedHealth Group, contact: John Penshorn, senior vice president (952) 936-7214.


