FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20071018061552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On October 18, 2007, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing third quarter 2007 results. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference.
The information in this Item 2.02, including the Exhibit attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional $7 Billion in Share Repurchase Targeted by Year End 2008
MINNEAPOLIS (October 18, 2007)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) achieved solid results in the third quarter of 2007, including expanded operating margins and continued strong cash flows and earnings.
Stephen J. Hemsley, president and chief executive officer of UnitedHealth Group, said, "Our diversified health care service enterprise continued to perform well, with strong results from businesses such as AmeriChoice in Medicaid, Evercare in specialized senior programs, SecureHorizons in Medicare Advantage, Golden Rule in individual insurance and Ingenix in health informatics. We have expanded our network of care providers, meaningfully strengthened service performance for customers and care providers, increased our engagement with health system stakeholders, and are poised for a strong fourth quarter launch of AARP-branded Medicare products for 2008."
 
 
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights
Third quarter results reflected growth in key businesses and strength in earnings, margins and cash flows, as well as improvement in the medical care ratio.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group highlights  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
UnitedHealth Group is targeting earnings of approximately $3.49 to $3.50 per share for full year 2007
2
, an increase of approximately 18 percent over 2006 results. Fourth quarter earnings per share are expected to be slightly below third quarter results  due to projected seasonal increases in health care costs for UnitedHealthcare and seasonally increased levels of Medicare Advantage sales and marketing expenditures. The Company is targeting 2008 earnings in the range of $3.95 to $4.00 per share, including contributions from Sierra Health Services, Inc., which is anticipated to be acquired prior to year end 2007, and a total of $7 billion in share repurchase projected through fourth quarter 2007 and full year 2008.
 
 
Business Description  Health Care Services
The Health Care Services segment consists of the UnitedHealthcare, AmeriChoice and Ovations business units. UnitedHealthcare coordinates network-based health and well-being services on behalf of mid-sized and small employers and for consumers. AmeriChoice facilitates and manages health care services for state Medicaid programs and their beneficiaries. Ovations delivers health care services to Americans over the age of 50.
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services
Third quarter results for the Health Care Services segment included important product development and launch activities for UnitedHealthcare, advancing AmeriChoice financial performance, and growth in Ovations Medicare offerings, offset by lower enrollment in UnitedHealthcare employer-sponsored product lines. Ovations also launched marketing for its 2008 senior product offerings, effective October 1, 2007.
 
 
 
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  Uniprise
Uniprise delivers network-based health and well-being services, business-to-business transaction processing services, consumer connectivity, and technology support services to large employers and health plans, and provides health-related consumer and financial transaction products and services.
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
Key Developments for Uniprise
Third quarter 2007 developments for Uniprise included investments in technology, service and product enhancements that benefit consumers and care providers and the substantial completion of the January 2008 selling season, including the renewal of high profile corporate customers under multi-year arrangements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  OptumHealth
OptumHealth optimizes health, well-being and financial security for people and organizations through personalized management solutions, specialized benefits and health financial services. OptumHealth helps people improve their lives by making informed decisions about their health and health care finances.
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
Key Developments for OptumHealth
During the third quarter Specialized Care Services and its individual businesses were rebranded as OptumHealth. OptumHealth serves markets outside of UnitedHealth Group, such as health plans, the public sector and non-UnitedHealth employer groups. The re-branding allows OptumHealth to easily represent its broad array of capabilities to the external market, making the breadth of its solutions more accessible to new, as well as existing clients. At the consumer level, the OptumHealth branding reinforces its ability to create personalized, caring and lifelong relationships to improve overall health and well-being.
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  Ingenix
Ingenix is a leader in the field of health care data, analysis and application, serving pharmaceutical companies, health insurers and other payers, physicians and other health care providers, large employers and governments.
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
Key Developments for Ingenix
Ingenix continues to build momentum, with strong growth in virtually every performance metric. This business is responding to the growing needs for data-driven solutions, analytics and consulting services by all participants across the health care system.
 
 
 
 
 
 
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group () is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, OptumHealth and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 70 million individuals nationwide.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "will" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and uncertainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause UnitedHealth Group's actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the potential consequences of the findings announced on October 15, 2006 of the investigation by an Independent Committee of directors of our historic stock option practices, the consequences of the restatement of our previous financial statements, related governmental reviews, including a formal investigation by the SEC, and review by the IRS, U.S. Congressional committees, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and Minnesota Attorney General, a related review by the Special Litigation Committee of the Company, and related shareholder derivative actions, shareholder demands and purported securities and Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) class actions, the resolution of matters currently subject to an injunction issued by the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota, a purported notice of acceleration with respect to certain of the Company's debt securities based upon an alleged event of default under the indenture governing such securities, and recent management and director changes, and the potential impact of each of these matters on our business, credit ratings and debt; increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption of or costs of medical services; heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers; events that may negatively affect our contract with AARP; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; funding risks with respect to revenues received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; failure to achieve business growth targets, including membership and enrollment; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, legislative activity and government regulation and review of our industry; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service providers; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs
 
estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care provider disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; and failure to complete or receive anticipated benefits of acquisitions.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Earnings Conference Call
As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the Company's results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 8:45 a.m. Eastern time today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Investor Information page of the Company's Web site (www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The webcast replay of the call will be available on the same site for one week following the live call. The conference call replay can also be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID #3056896. This earnings release and the Form 8-K dated October 18, 2007, which may also be accessed in the Investor Information section of the Company's Web site, include a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REVENUES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


