FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20071206162417.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Report of the Special Litigation Committee
On December 6, 2007, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that the Special Litigation Committee (the "SLC"), an independent committee comprised of two former Minnesota Supreme Court Justices, has concluded its review of claims relating to the Company's historical stock option practices brought against certain of the Company's current and former officers and directors in federal and state derivative lawsuits, consolidated as filed in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota and filed in the Hennepin County District Court, State of Minnesota (collectively the "derivative actions"). A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
In re UnitedHealth Group Inc. Shareholder Derivative Litigation
In re UnitedHealth Group Inc. Derivative Litigation
Based on its exhaustive review, the SLC reached settlement agreements on behalf of the Company with the Company's former Chairman and CEO William W. McGuire, M.D. (the "McGuire Agreement"), former General Counsel David J. Lubben (the "Lubben Agreement"), and former director William G. Spears (the "Spears Agreement" and together with the McGuire Agreement and the Lubben Agreement, the "Settlement Agreements").
In addition, the SLC concluded that all claims against all named defendants in the derivative actions, including current and former Company officers and directors should be dismissed. The SLC's conclusions are reflected in the Report of the Special Litigation Committee (the "SLC Report") delivered to the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota (the "Federal Court") and the Hennepin County District Court, State of Minnesota (the "State Court") on December 6, 2007. A copy of the SLC Report is available on the Newsroom page of the Company's website at .
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Settlement Agreements
Under the McGuire Agreement, the parties agree that:
 
 
Under the Lubben Agreement, the parties agree that:
 
 
Under the Spears Agreement, the fair settlement value of the Company's claims against Mr. Spears will be determined by binding arbitration.
Each of the McGuire Agreement and the Lubben Agreement contains customary mutual releases. The Settlement Agreements also provide that Dr. McGuire, Mr. Lubben and Mr. Spears will not seek indemnification from the Company or assert any right to any insurance coverage with respect to any property or rights paid or relinquished pursuant to their respective Settlement Agreements.
Each individual's Settlement Agreement is also conditioned upon (1) final approval by the Federal Court and the State Court of all of its terms; and (2) the dismissal, with prejudice, of all claims against the individual and all other defendants in the derivative actions. If either condition is not satisfied, then that individual's Settlement Agreement will become null and void in its entirety and will have no force or effect. In addition, pursuant to the requirements of the Minnesota Human Rights Act, Dr. McGuire and Mr. Lubben may revoke their Settlement Agreements at any time up to 15 days after signing, in which case the Settlement Agreements will become null and void in its entirety and will have no force or effect.
The Settlement Agreements and the dismissal of the derivative actions are subject to notice to the Company's shareholders and approval by the Federal Court and the State Court.
The above summary of the Settlement Agreements is qualified by reference to the complete text of the McGuire Agreement and the Lubben Agreement filed herewith as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
(e)
The information contained in Item 8.01 relating to the McGuire Agreement and the Lubben Agreement is incorporated by reference herein.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "will" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and uncertainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause UnitedHealth Group's actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the potential consequences of the findings announced on October 15, 2006 of the investigation by an Independent Committee of directors of our historic stock option practices; the consequences of the restatement of our previous financial statements, related governmental reviews, including a formal investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and review by the Internal Revenue Service, U.S. Congressional committees, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and Minnesota Attorney General, a related review by the Special Litigation Committee of the Company, and related shareholder derivative actions, including whether court approval of the settlement agreements between the Company and certain named defendants and the dismissal of the derivative claims against all named defendants is obtained, shareholder demands and purported securities and Employee Retirement Income Security Act class actions, the resolution of matters currently subject to an injunction issued by the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota, a purported notice of acceleration with respect to certain of the Company's debt securities based upon an alleged event of default under the indenture governing such securities, and recent management and director changes, and the potential impact of each of these matters on our business, credit ratings and debt; increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption of or costs of medical services; heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers; events that may negatively affect our contract with AARP; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; funding risks with respect to revenues received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; failure to achieve business growth targets, including membership and enrollment; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased
litigation, legislative activity and government regulation and review of our industry; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service providers; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care provider disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; failure to complete or receive anticipated benefits of acquisitions; and change in debt to total capital ratio that is lower or higher than we anticipated.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 6, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Agreement ("Agreement") is entered into on this fifth day of December, 2007, by and between Dr. William W. McGuire ("Dr. McGuire"), UnitedHealth Group Incorporated ("UHG" or "the Company") and the Special Litigation Committee of the Board of Directors of UHG (the "SLC"):
WHEREAS, Dr. McGuire served as Chief Executive Officer of UHG, and as Chair of its Board of Directors; and
WHEREAS, beginning in April 2006, a number of derivative lawsuits were filed in the name of the Company against Dr. McGuire and others, which have been consolidated as , Master File No. 06-1216 JMR/FLN in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota (the "Federal Derivative Actions") and , File No. 27-CV-06-8085 in the Minnesota District Court for Hennepin County (the "State Derivative Actions") (collectively referred to as the "Derivative Actions"); and
In re UnitedHealth Group Inc. Shareholder Derivative Litigation
In re UnitedHealth Group Inc. Derivative Litigation
WHEREAS, Dr. McGuire left the employ of the Company in November 2006, at which time there were unresolved issues between him and the Company regarding various employment benefits and other employment issues (the "Employment Issues"); and
WHEREAS, in June, 2006, the Board of Directors of UHG appointed the SLC to determine whether prosecution of the claims against the various defendants in the Derivative Actions was in the best interests of the Company; and
WHEREAS, the parties have negotiated a settlement (the "Settlement"), which, upon all necessary approvals, would resolve and settle all of the Employment Issues and result in the dismissal with prejudice of all claims asserted against Dr. McGuire in the Derivative Actions; and
WHEREAS, because the Settlement will satisfy the Company's claims with regard to Dr. McGuire's options, he should be permitted to exercise the options he retains; and
WHEREAS, the SLC believes that the Settlement between the Company and Dr. McGuire would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.  This Agreement shall be binding on the parties on the later of the date the last signatory signs the Agreement (the "Effective Date"); that this Agreement is expressly conditioned upon: (i) final approval, by the State of Minnesota, Hennepin County District Court and the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota (collectively, the "Courts"), of the terms of the Settlement and this Agreement and the expiration of the time to appeal such approvals (or, in the event of an appeal, following the determination of the appeal and any subsequent proceedings) ( "Final Approval"); and (ii) the dismissal ("Dismissal"), with prejudice, of all claims against Dr. McGuire and all other defendants in the Derivative Actions; and (iii) the Company's release ("Release") of all current and former UHG officers, directors and employees, arising out of, or relating or pertaining to (a) the general subject matter of the Derivative Actions, and/or (b) Dr. McGuire's employment with or service on the Board of Directors of UHG, including but not limited to any of the
Effective Date; Conditions
provided however,
 
Employment Issues (the Final Approval, Dismissal, and Release, collectively the "Conditions"). As soon as practicable after the Effective Date, the parties shall seek preliminary approval by the Courts of the Settlement and the Notice of Settlement that will be sent to the Company's shareholders. The SLC, Dr. McGuire, and the Company, all agree to cooperate in obtaining preliminary and final approval of the Settlement. The Company shall provide notice to its shareholders of, among other things, the following: 1) the terms of the Settlement; 2) the date and time of the final settlement approval hearing; and 3) that the shareholders can object to the Agreement but cannot opt out of participation in the Settlement. In the event that the Conditions do not occur, this Agreement shall become a nullity, and shall have no force or effect whatsoever.
2. On the date the last of the Conditions is satisfied, Dr. McGuire shall surrender to the Company all right, title and interest in stock options (including all options unvested as of November 30, 2006) on 9,223,360 shares of Company stock. The stock options to be surrendered are set forth in Attachment A to this Agreement ("Surrendered Options"). Dr. McGuire shall retain all of his other stock options for the purchase of Company stock ("Retained Options"). The exercise period for any Retained Options that are not subject to any injunction preventing the exercise thereof will expire on the 90
Surrender of Stock Options; Exercise of Retained Options 
th
day after the Effective Date.
3. Dr. McGuire shall surrender to the Company any and all rights he has under the Company's Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ("SERP") upon the date the last of the Conditions is satisfied.
Surrender of SERP 
 
4. Dr. McGuire shall surrender to the Company his rights to $8,100,000 of the funds ("Surrendered ESP Funds") in his Executive Savings Plan Account ("ESP") upon the date the last of the Conditions is satisfied, UHG shall pay to Dr. McGuire the remaining balance of the ESP ("ESP Balance") upon the Effective Date.
Surrender of Portion of ESP 
5. . Dr. McGuire shall relinquish his rights (if any) to Company-paid health care for himself and his family and to participation in any Company life, dental, short-term or long-term disability insurance plans; and to a Company-paid office, secretarial and administrative support, and the use of Company aircraft for personal business.
Certain Other Benefits
6. The Company acknowledges that any noncompetition and nonsolicitation obligations of Dr. McGuire, have expired, or will expire, on November 30, 2007.
Termination of Noncompetition and Nonsolicitation Provisions 
7. Dr. McGuire and his wife, and his children until they attain age 25, will continue to receive (at Dr. McGuire's own expense), health plan coverage maintained or provided by UHG.
Health Coverage.
8. Dr. McGuire will seek an injunction (the "Injunction"), to be entered on or before December 6, 2007, on the same terms as set forth in the injunction entered by the Honorable James M. Rosenbaum on November 29, 2006 (and extended thereafter until December 6, 2007) with respect only to the Surrendered Options, Retained Options granted between 2003 and 2006, the SERP, and the Surrendered ESP Funds, and only until the date the last of the Conditions is satisfied.
Injunction 
 
9. Except for any and all representations, warranties, covenants and agreements made herein and except for the matters set forth in Paragraph 12, Dr. McGuire, and his agents, administrators, beneficiaries, successors and assigns ("McGuire Releasors") do hereby forego, release and forever discharge UHG, as well as its past and present affiliates, parents, subsidiaries, divisions, branches, subdivisions, departments, agencies, predecessors, successors, and the heirs, principals, employees, associates, owners, stockholders, assigns, devisees, agents, directors, officers, representatives, lawyers, and predecessors in interest, and each of them, and all persons acting by, through, under or in concert with them, and the SLC (collectively the "UHG Releasees") from any and all claims, actions, causes of action, suits, agreements, contracts, covenants, obligations, orders, liabilities, debts, choses in action, sums of money, judgments, executions, demands, damages (including compensatory, exemplary, statutory, punitive, special and any other damages), expenses, attorneys' fees, costs, or other rights of any kind whatsoever, whether based upon contract, tort, statute or any other legal or equitable theory of recovery, and whether known or unknown, asserted or unasserted, suspected or unsuspected, fixed or contingent, matured or unmatured, concealed or hidden, which the McGuire Releasors (or any of them) now have, ever had or shall have against the UHG Releasees (or any of them) from the beginning of time until the Effective Date, arising out of, or relating or pertaining to (a) the general subject matter of the Derivative Actions, and/or (b) Dr. McGuire's employment with or service on the Board of Directors of UHG, including but not limited to any of the Employment Issues, or claims for tort, breach of contract (express and/or implied), breach of implied or express employment contracts or
Releases by McGuire Releasors 
 
covenants, promissory fraud, promissory estoppel, negligent or intentional misrepresentation, defamation, invasion of privacy, fraud, misrepresentation, retaliation, wrongful termination, constructive termination, wrongful discharge, retaliatory discharge, public policy violations of whatever kind or nature, emotional distress and related matters, and claims of discrimination or harassment based on age, race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, physical or mental disability, medical condition, marital status, sexual orientation, claims under federal, state, local and/or other governmental laws, statutes, regulations, ordinances, case law or common law, including, but not limited to, such claims under Minnesota Human Rights Act,, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA"), Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended ("Title VII"), the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans with Disabilities Act ("ADA"), the Family Medical Leave Act ("FMLA"), the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act ("WARN"), the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Older Worker Benefit Protection Act ("OWBPA"), the Fair Labor Standards Act ("FLSA") and/or, any and all compensation, salaries, wages, bonuses, commissions, overtime, monies, pay, benefits, sick pay, expenses, vacation pay, severance pay, paid leave benefits, penalties, interest, damages, emotional distress, or promises on any and all of the above (hereinafter the "Released McGuire Claims"). The McGuire Releasors, and each of them, expressly understand that among the various rights and claims being waived by them in this Agreement are those arising under the Age Discrimination and Employment Act of 1967 ("ADEA"), as amended, and in that regard, they specifically acknowledge that they have read and understand the provisions of Paragraph X below, before signing this Agreement. This release does not cover rights or claims under the
 
ADEA arising after Dr. McGuire signs this Agreement. Excluded from this release are any claims or rights that cannot be waived by law, including the right to file a charge with, or participate in an investigation conducted by, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ("EEOC"). The McGuire Releasors, and each of them, however, waive their right to any monetary recovery or other relief should the EEOC or any other agency pursue claims on their behalf. In the event that any UHG Releasee asserts a claim or prosecutes an action against Dr. McGuire arising out of or pertaining or relating to (a) the general subject matter of the Derivative Actions, and/or (b) Dr. McGuire's employment with or service on the Board of Directors of UHG, including but not limited to any of the Employment Issues, and/or (c) the Released McGuire Claims, the release provided hereunder by Dr. McGuire shall be null and void with respect to that UHG Releasee, and in addition, if such claim is brought by a UHG Releasor, then, Dr. McGuire shall also have any other rights and remedies under this Agreement.
10. With respect to the release of any claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Dr. McGuire agrees that he has had sufficient time to consider this Agreement before signing it, specifically up to twenty-one days, if desired, and that although he had a maximum of twenty-one days to consider this Agreement, he was free to and did sign this Agreement sooner. Dr. McGuire may revoke this Agreement at any time up to fifteen days after he signs it. Any revocation must be in writing and received by Thomas L. Strickland, Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer by 11: 59 p.m. Central Time of the fifteenth calendar day of the revocation period to be effective. Dr. McGuire further acknowledges that he was advised, and hereby is advised in writing, to consult an attorney, if desired, before
Time to Reconsider by McGuire Parties 
 
signing this Agreement below and that this Agreement has been individually negotiated and is not part of a group exit incentive or other termination program. Dr. McGuire further acknowledges that he has carefully read and fully understands all of the provisions of this Agreement; knowingly and voluntarily agrees to all of terms in this Agreement; and knowingly and voluntarily intends to be legally bound by the same. However, if Dr. McGuire properly and timely revokes this Agreement as provided for in this Paragraph, this Agreement shall become null and void in its entirety, and neither this Agreement, nor any settlement and/or release provided for herein, shall be effective or enforceable in any way or manner as to any of the parties hereto, and none of the parties hereto will receive any of the benefits provided for in this Agreement.
11. Except for any and all representations, warranties, covenants and agreements made herein and except for the matters set forth in Paragraph 12, UHG, as well as its past and present affiliates, foundations, parents, subsidiaries, divisions, branches, subdivisions, departments, agencies, predecessors, successors, and the SLC ("UHG Releasors") do hereby forego, release and forever discharge Dr. McGuire, as well as his past and present assigns, devisees, agents, representatives, , lawyers, and predecessors in interest, and each of them, and all persons acting by, through, under or in concert with them (collectively the "McGuire Releasees") from any and all claims, actions, causes of action, suits, agreements, contracts, covenants, obligations, orders, liabilities, debts, choses in action, sums of money, judgments, executions, demands, damages (including compensatory, exemplary, statutory, punitive, special and any other damages), expenses, attorneys' fees, costs, or other rights of any kind whatsoever, whether based upon contract, tort, statute or any other legal or equitable
Releases by UHG Releasors 
 
theory of recovery, and whether known or unknown, asserted or unasserted, suspected or unsuspected, fixed or contingent, matured or unmatured, concealed or hidden, which the UHG Releasors (or any of them) now have, ever had or shall have against the McGuire Releasees (or any of them), arising out of or relating or pertaining to (a) the general subject matter of the Derivative Actions, and/or (b) Dr. McGuire's employment with or service on the Board of Directors of UHG, including but not limited to any of the Employment Issues, from the beginning of time until the Effective Date of this Agreement (hereinafter the "Released UHG Claims").
12.  Nothing in the Agreement, or in the mutual releases set forth in Paragraphs 9 and 11 , above, shall affect, release or otherwise modify: (i) Dr. McGuire's right to seek the advancement of attorney's fees and costs, indemnification, or insurance coverage in any action, including but not limited to, , Civil File No. 0:06-cv-01691-JMR-FLN ("PSLRA Case") and Civil File No. 06-CV-02237 (JNE/SRN), provided, however, that Dr. McGuire will not seek indemnification or assert any right to any insurance coverage with respect to any agreements, property or rights paid or relinquished pursuant to this Agreement; (ii) UHG's defenses to any claim made by Dr. McGuire for advancement or indemnification of attorney's fees and costs (iii) UHG's rights under any insurance policies; (iv) UHG's right to enforce the undertaking previously provided to UHG by Dr. McGuire; (v) any rights, claims, or obligations of Dr. McGuire or UHG as they relate to the PSLRA Case, including, without limitation, any rights or obligations established under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act; or (vi) Dr. McGuire's obligations under Paragraph
Items Not Covered by Releases
In re UnitedHealth Group Incorporated PSLRA Litigation
Zilhaver v. UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, et al,
 
4(B) of Dr. McGuire's Employment Agreement dated effective as of October 13, 1999 ("Employment Agreement") (CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION), which obligations survive and continue.
13.  The parties agree to cooperate fully with each other and/or their legal counsel in connection with any lawsuit or other administrative or legal proceeding brought by or against the Company arising out of, related to, or involving acts, events, or omissions that occurred during the time period of Dr. McGuire's employment with the Company. Each party agrees that it shall not, directly or indirectly, make or cause others to make a disparaging statement of or concerning the other regarding any events occurring during Dr. McGuire's tenure at UHG. Each party acknowledges that nothing in this paragraph will be construed to limit any party from complying with legal obligations, asserting any legal rights or privileges, responding to any request for information or inquiry as part of a legal proceeding or regulatory process in a truthful manner or from competing in a fair and lawful manner. The Company will reimburse Dr. McGuire for his reasonable expenses in complying with this paragraph.
Cooperation; Non-disparagement
14. The parties acknowledge and agree that this Agreement is a compromise of disputed claims, liability for which is expressly denied by all such parties. Neither the execution of this Agreement, nor the payment of any consideration by any such party, shall be construed as an admission as to the merits of any claim or allegation by any party.
Compromise of Disputed Claims 
15. The parties to this Agreement have been represented by attorneys of their own choosing throughout the negotiation and
No Reliance on Representations 
 
execution of this Agreement, and no party has relied upon any advice or representation of any other party or its attorneys in entering into this Agreement. The parties have entered into this Agreement freely, without compulsion, and with full understanding and voluntary acceptance of its terms and they hereby assume the risk of any mistake of fact in connection with the true facts involved, which may now be unknown.
16. Each party acknowledges that, subsequent to the execution of this Agreement, he or it may discover facts or incur or suffer claims which, if known or anticipated, might have materially affected his or its decision to execute this Agreement. The parties expressly acknowledge this risk and agree that this Agreement applies to such unknown, unanticipated or different facts and/or claims, and that the enforceability of this Agreement shall not in any way be affected by such discovery of unknown or unanticipated facts and/or claims.
Later Discovery of Facts 
17. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between and among the parties with respect to the subject matters contained herein, and represents the final, complete and exclusive expression of the terms and conditions of the agreement between them. All prior and contemporaneous communications and/or agreements between the parties, oral or written, with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement are merged herein and superseded hereby. The parties acknowledge that no party, or any agent or attorney of any party, has made any promise, representation or warranty whatsoever, express or implied, not contained herein concerning the subject matter hereof, to induce any other party to execute this Agreement, and the parties acknowledge that they have not executed this Agreement in reliance on any such promise, representation or warranty.
Entire Agreement 
 
18. For purposes of construction, this Agreement shall be deemed to have been negotiated and drafted by all of the Parties hereto, and no ambiguity shall be resolved against any party by virtue of its participation in the drafting of this Agreement.
Construction 
19.  This Agreement shall be binding upon the UHG Releasors and the Dr. McGuire Releasors, and upon their assigns, successors, heirs, executors and administrators.
Successors
20.  The parties represent that they own the claims and rights released herein, and he or it has not, and will not in the future, assign, transfer, or otherwise convey, in any manner or by any means, all or any part of those claims or rights.
No Assignment
21.  The parties agree to use their best efforts to cooperate with each other in good faith and will, without further consideration, execute and deliver further documents or instruments and take such other actions as may be reasonably necessary to carry out and effectuate the purposes of this Agreement.
Cooperation
22.  Each person signing this Agreement represents and warrants that he or she has full authority and is duly authorized to bind the party or parties for whom he or she is signing to the legal, valid and binding obligations and commitments set forth herein.
Authorization
23. Any dispute arising between the parties relating to paragraph 12(vi) of this Agreement shall be resolved by binding arbitration, in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph 5(h) of the Employment Agreement. Otherwise, the Court shall retain jurisdiction over this matter to resolve any disputes under this Agreement.
Arbitration; Continuing Jurisdiction 
 
24.  This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota, without regard to its conflict of laws principles. The validity and effect of this Agreement, including any claims for breach of any of the terms hereof, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Minnesota.
Applicable Law
25.  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which shall together constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
26.  This Agreement may not be amended or modified in any respect, except by a writing duly executed by all the parties hereto.
No Modification
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above:
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
This Agreement ("Agreement") is entered into on this fifth day of December, 2007, by and between David Lubben ("Lubben"), UnitedHealth Group Incorporated ("UHG" or "the Company") and the Special Litigation Committee of the Board of Directors of UHG (the "SLC"):
WHEREAS, Lubben was employed by UHG until December 29, 2006; and
WHEREAS, beginning in April 2006, a number of derivative lawsuits were filed in the name of the Company against various officers and directors, which have been consolidated as , Master File No. 06-1216 JMR/FLN in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota (the "Federal Derivative Actions") and , File No. 27-CV-06-8085 in the Minnesota District Court for Hennepin County (the "State Derivative Actions") (collectively referred to as the "Derivative Actions"); and
In re UnitedHealth Group Inc. Shareholder Derivative Litigation
In re UnitedHealth Group Inc. Derivative Litigation
WHEREAS, Lubben left the employ of the Company in December 2006, at which time there were unresolved issues between him and the Company regarding various employment benefits and other employment issues (the "Employment Issues"); and
WHEREAS, in June, 2006, the Board of Directors of UHG appointed the SLC to determine whether prosecution of the claims against the various defendants in the Derivative Actions was in the best interests of the Company; and
WHEREAS, the parties have negotiated a settlement (the "Settlement"), which, upon all necessary approvals, would resolve and settle all of the Employment Issues and result in the dismissal with prejudice of all claims asserted against Lubben in the Derivative Actions; and
WHEREAS, the SLC believes that the Settlement between the Company and Lubben would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.  This Agreement shall be binding on the parties on the date (the "Effective Date") the last signatory signs the Agreement; that this Agreement is expressly conditioned upon: (i) final approval, by the State of Minnesota, Hennepin County District Court (the "State Court") and the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota (the "Federal Court" and together with the State Court, the "Courts"), of the terms of the Settlement and this Agreement and the expiration of the time to appeal such approvals (or, in the event of an appeal, following the determination of the appeal and any subsequent proceedings) ("Final Approval"); and (ii) the dismissal ("Dismissal"), with prejudice, of all claims against Lubben and all other defendants in the Derivative Actions; and (iii) the Company's release ("Release") of all current and former UHG officers, directors and employees, arising out of, or relating or pertaining to (a) the general subject matter of the Derivative Actions, and/or (b) Lubben's employment with UHG, including but not limited to any of the Employment Issues (the Final Approval, Dismissal, and Release, collectively the "Conditions"). As soon as practicable after the Effective Date, the parties shall seek preliminary approval by the Courts of the Settlement and the Notice of
Effective Date; Conditions
provided however,
 
Settlement that will be sent to the Company's shareholders. The SLC, Lubben, and the Company, all agree to cooperate in obtaining preliminary and final approval of the Settlement. The Company shall provide notice to its shareholders of, among other things, the following: 1) the terms of the Settlement; 2) the date and time of the final settlement approval hearing; and 3) that the shareholders can object to the Agreement but cannot opt out of participation in the Settlement. In the event that the Conditions do not occur, this Agreement shall become a nullity, and shall have no force or effect whatsoever and the Original Option Letter and Escrow Account (defined below) will be reinstated and UHG shall return the Settlement Amount (defined below) to the Escrow Account, and return the Surrendered Options (defined below) to Lubben, and the balance of the Escrow Account will be restored to the amount on deposit therein on the day immediately prior to the Effective Date.
2. On the date the last of the Conditions is satisfied, Lubben shall surrender to the Company all right, title and interest in stock options on 273,000 shares of Company stock ("Surrendered Options") and such options shall be cancelled. A list of the Surrendered Options is set forth in Attachment A to this Agreement.
Surrender of Stock Options 
3. On or before December 31, 2007, Lubben shall repay to the Company $20,550,000 ("Settlement Amount") of the compensation realized by Lubben in calendar year 2007 as a result of his March 2007 option exercises. The Settlement Amount will be transferred to the Company from the funds held in escrow ("Escrow Account") pursuant to the Letter Agreement between Lubben and UHG, dated March 26, 2007, governing Lubben's March 2007 option
Repayment of Compensation 
 
exercise ("Original Option Letter"). Immediately after the Effective Date, the parties will jointly petition the Federal Court for an order (a) authorizing the use of funds in the Escrow Account to facilitate the payment of the Settlement Amount to UHG and (b) otherwise terminating the Original Option Letter and the Escrow Account. In the event that such order is not issued on or prior to December 14, 2007, this Agreement shall terminate and shall be null and void in its entirety effective as of December 31, 2007.
4. The Company acknowledges that any noncompetition and nonsolicitation obligations of Lubben, have expired, or will expire, on December 28, 2007.
Termination of Noncompetition and Nonsolicitation Provisions 
5. Except for any and all representations, warranties, covenants and agreements made herein and except for the matters set forth in Paragraph 8, Lubben, and his agents, administrators, beneficiaries, successors and assigns ("Lubben Releasors") do hereby forego, release and forever discharge UHG, as well as its past and present affiliates, parents, subsidiaries, divisions, branches, subdivisions, departments, agencies, predecessors, successors, and the heirs, principals, employees, associates, owners, stockholders, assigns, devisees, agents, directors, officers, representatives, lawyers, and predecessors in interest, and each of them, and all persons acting by, through, under or in concert with them, and the SLC (collectively the "UHG Releasees") from any and all claims, actions, causes of action, suits, agreements, contracts, covenants, obligations, orders, liabilities, debts, choses in action, sums of money, judgments, executions, demands, damages (including compensatory, exemplary, statutory, punitive, special and any other damages), expenses, attorneys' fees, costs, or other rights of any kind whatsoever, whether based upon contract, tort, statute or any
Releases by Lubben Releasors 
 
other legal or equitable theory of recovery, and whether known or unknown, asserted or unasserted, suspected or unsuspected, fixed or contingent, matured or unmatured, concealed or hidden, which the Lubben Releasors (or any of them) now have, ever had or shall have against the UHG Releasees (or any of them) from the beginning of time until the Effective Date, arising out of or relating or pertaining to (a) the general subject matter of the Derivative Actions, and/or (b) Lubben's employment with UHG, including but not limited to any of the Employment Issues, or claims for tort, breach of contract (express and/or implied), breach of implied or express employment contracts or covenants, promissory fraud, promissory estoppel, negligent or intentional misrepresentation, defamation, invasion of privacy, fraud, misrepresentation, retaliation, wrongful termination, constructive termination, wrongful discharge, retaliatory discharge, public policy violations of whatever kind or nature, emotional distress and related matters, and claims of discrimination or harassment based on age, race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, physical or mental disability, medical condition, marital status, sexual orientation, claims under federal, state, local and/or other governmental laws, statutes, regulations, ordinances, case law or common law, including, but not limited to, such claims under Minnesota Human Rights Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA"), Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended ("Title VII"), the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans with Disabilities Act ("ADA"), the Family Medical Leave Act ("FMLA"), the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act ("WARN"), the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Older Worker Benefit Protection Act ("OWBPA"), the Fair Labor Standards Act ("FLSA") and/or, any and all compensation, salaries, wages, bonuses, commissions, overtime, monies, pay, benefits,
 
sick pay, expenses, vacation pay, severance pay, paid leave benefits, penalties, interest, damages, emotional distress, or promises on any and all of the above (hereinafter the "Released Lubben Claims"). The Lubben Releasors, and each of them, expressly understand that among the various rights and claims being waived by them in this Agreement are those arising under the Age Discrimination and Employment Act of 1967 ("ADEA"), as amended, and in that regard, they specifically acknowledge that they have read and understand the provisions of Paragraph X below, before signing this Agreement. This release does not cover rights or claims under the ADEA arising after Lubben signs this Agreement. Excluded from this release are any claims or rights that cannot be waived by law, including the right to file a charge with, or participate in an investigation conducted by, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ("EEOC"). The Lubben Releasors, and each of them, however, waive their right to any monetary recovery or other relief should the EEOC or any other agency pursue claims on their behalf. In the event that any UHG Releasee asserts a claim or prosecutes an action against Lubben arising out of or pertaining or relating to (a) the general subject matter of the Derivative Actions, (b) Lubben's employment with UHG, including but not limited to any of the Employment Issues, and/or (c) the Released Lubben Claims, the release provided hereunder by Lubben shall be null and void with respect to that UHG Releasee, and in addition, if such claim is brought by a UHG Releasor, then, Lubben shall also have any other rights and remedies under this Agreement.
6. With respect to the release of any claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Lubben agrees that he has had sufficient time to consider this Agreement before signing it, specifically up to
Time to Reconsider by Lubben Parties 
 
twenty-one days, if desired, and that although he had a maximum of twenty-one days to consider this Agreement, he was free to and did sign this Agreement sooner. Lubben may revoke this Agreement at any time up to fifteen days after he signs it. Any revocation must be in writing and received by Thomas L. Strickland, Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer by 11: 59 p.m. Central Time of the fifteenth calendar day of the revocation period to be effective. Lubben further acknowledges that he was advised, and hereby is advised in writing, to consult an attorney, if desired, before signing this Agreement below and that this Agreement has been individually negotiated and is not part of a group exit incentive or other termination program. Lubben further acknowledges that he has carefully read and fully understands all of the provisions of this Agreement; knowingly and voluntarily agrees to all of terms in this Agreement; and knowingly and voluntarily intends to be legally bound by the same. However, if Lubben properly and timely revokes this Agreement as provided for in this Paragraph, this Agreement shall become null and void in its entirety, and neither this Agreement, nor any settlement and/or release provided for herein, shall be effective or enforceable in any way or manner as to any of the parties hereto, and none of the parties hereto will receive any of the benefits provided for in this Agreement.
7. Except for any and all representations, warranties, covenants and agreements made herein and except for the matters set forth in Paragraph 8, UHG, as well as its past and present affiliates, foundations, parents, subsidiaries, divisions, branches, subdivisions, departments, agencies, predecessors, successors, and the SLC ("UHG Releasors") do hereby forego, release and forever discharge Lubben, as well as his heirs and spouse, and their past and present assigns,
Releases by UHG Releasors 
 
devisees, agents, representatives, lawyers, and predecessors in interest, and each of them, and all persons acting by, through, under or in concert with them (collectively the "Lubben Releasees") from any and all claims, actions, causes of action, suits, agreements, contracts, covenants, obligations, orders, liabilities, debts, choses in action, sums of money, judgments, executions, demands, damages (including compensatory, exemplary, statutory, punitive, special and any other damages), expenses, attorneys' fees, costs, or other rights of any kind whatsoever, whether based upon contract, tort, statute or any other legal or equitable theory of recovery, and whether known or unknown, asserted or unasserted, suspected or unsuspected, fixed or contingent, matured or unmatured, concealed or hidden, which the UHG Releasors (or any of them) now have, ever had or shall have against the Lubben Releasees (or any of them), arising out of, or relating or pertaining to (a) the general subject matter of the Derivative Actions, (b) Lubben's employment with UHG, including but not limited to any of the Employment Issues, and/or (c) any other claims for tort, breach of contract (express and/or implied), breach of implied or express employment contracts or covenants, promissory fraud, promissory estoppel, negligent or intentional misrepresentation, defamation, invasion of privacy, fraud, misrepresentation, public policy violations of whatever kind or nature, emotional distress and related matters, claims under federal, state, local and/or other governmental laws, statutes, regulations, ordinances, case law or common law, or promises on any and all of the above, from the beginning of time until the Effective Date of this Agreement (hereinafter the "Released UHG Claims").
8. Nothing in the Agreement, or in the mutual releases set forth in Paragraphs 5 and 7, above, shall affect, release or
Items Not Covered by Releases 
 
otherwise modify: (i) Lubben's right to seek the advancement of attorney's fees and costs, indemnification, or insurance coverage, in any action or proceeding, including but not limited to, , Civil File No. 0:06-cv-01691-JMR-FLN ("PSLRA Case"), provided, however, that Lubben will not seek indemnification or assert any right to any insurance coverage with respect to any agreements, property or rights paid or relinquished pursuant to this Agreement; (ii) UHG's defenses to any claim made by Lubben for advancement or indemnification of attorney's fees and costs (iii) UHG's rights under any insurance policies; (iv) UHG's right to enforce the undertaking previously provided to UHG by Lubben; (v) any rights, claims, or obligations of Lubben or UHG as they relate to the PSLRA Case, including, without limitation, any cross-claims, third party complaints, or any other claims against other defendants in the PSLRA Case, and any rights or obligations established under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act; (vi) Lubben's obligations under Paragraph 5(g) of Lubben's Employment Agreement dated effective as of October 16, 1998 ("Employment Agreement") (CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION), which obligations survive and continue; or (vii) Lubben's rights under and to his 401(K) account, Executive Savings Plan Account, Employee Stock Purchase Plan Account, or the Company's Post Employment Medical Plan.
In re UnitedHealth Group Incorporated PSLRA Litigation
9.  The parties agree to cooperate fully with each other and/or their legal counsel in connection with any lawsuit or other administrative or legal proceeding brought by or against the Company arising out of, related to, or involving acts, events, or omissions that occurred during the time period of Lubben's employment with the Company. The parties acknowledge that nothing in this paragraph will be
Cooperation
 
construed to limit them from complying with legal obligations, asserting any legal rights or privileges, or responding to any request for information or inquiry as part of a legal proceeding or regulatory process in a truthful manner. The Company will reimburse Lubben for his reasonable expenses in complying with this paragraph.
10. The parties acknowledge and agree that this Agreement is a compromise of disputed claims, liability for which is expressly denied by all such parties. Neither the execution of this Agreement, nor the payment of any consideration by any such party, shall be construed as an admission as to the merits of any claim or allegation by any party.
Compromise of Disputed Claims 
11. The parties to this Agreement have been represented by attorneys of their own choosing throughout the negotiation and execution of this Agreement, and no party has relied upon any advice or representation of any other party or its attorneys in entering into this Agreement. The parties have entered into this Agreement freely, without compulsion, and with full understanding and voluntary acceptance of its terms and they hereby assume the risk of any mistake of fact in connection with the true facts involved, which may now be unknown.
No Reliance on Representations 
12. Each party acknowledges that, subsequent to the execution of this Agreement, he or it may discover facts or incur or suffer claims which, if known or anticipated, might have materially affected his or its decision to execute this Agreement. The parties expressly acknowledge this risk and agree that this Agreement applies to such unknown, unanticipated or different facts and/or claims, and that the enforceability of this Agreement shall not in any way be affected by such discovery of unknown or unanticipated facts and/or claims.
Later Discovery of Facts 
 
13. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between and among the parties with respect to the subject matters contained herein, and represents the final, complete and exclusive expression of the terms and conditions of the agreement between them. All prior and contemporaneous communications and/or agreements between the parties, oral or written, with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement are merged herein and superseded hereby. The parties acknowledge that no party, or any agent or attorney of any party, has made any promise, representation or warranty whatsoever, express or implied, not contained herein concerning the subject matter hereof, to induce any other party to execute this Agreement, and the parties acknowledge that they have not executed this Agreement in reliance on any such promise, representation or warranty.
Entire Agreement 
14. For purposes of construction, this Agreement shall be deemed to have been negotiated and drafted by all of the parties hereto, and no ambiguity shall be resolved against any party by virtue of its participation in the drafting of this Agreement.
Construction 
15.  This Agreement shall be binding upon the UHG Releasors and the Lubben Releasors, and upon their assigns, successors, heirs, executors and administrators.
Successors
16.  The parties represent that they own the claims and rights released herein, and he or it has not, and will not in the future, assign, transfer, or otherwise convey, in any manner or by any means, all or any part of those claims or rights.
No Assignment
 
17.  The parties agree to use their best efforts to cooperate with each other in good faith and will, without further consideration, execute and deliver further documents or instruments and take such other actions as may be reasonably necessary to carry out and effectuate the purposes of this Agreement.
Cooperation
18.  Each person signing this Agreement represents and warrants that he or she has full authority and is duly authorized to bind the party or parties for whom he or she is signing to the legal, valid and binding obligations and commitments set forth herein.
Authorization
19. Any dispute arising between the parties relating to paragraph 8(vii) of this Agreement shall be resolved by binding arbitration, in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph 5(g) of the Employment Agreement. Otherwise, the Federal Court shall retain jurisdiction over this matter to resolve any disputes under this Agreement.
Arbitration; Continuing Jurisdiction 
20.  This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota, without regard to its conflict of laws principles. The validity and effect of this Agreement, including any claims for breach of any of the terms hereof, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Minnesota.
Applicable Law
21.  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which shall together constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
22.  This Agreement may not be amended or modified in any respect, except by a writing duly executed by all the parties hereto.
No Modification
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above:
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
Minneapolis, December 6, 2007  UnitedHealth Group [NYSE: UNH] today announced that the Special Litigation Committee (SLC), an independent committee comprised of two former Minnesota Supreme Court Justices, has concluded its review of claims relating to the Company's historical stock option practices brought against certain of the Company's current and former officers and directors in federal and state derivative lawsuits. Based on its exhaustive, 15 month review, the SLC reached settlement agreements on behalf of the Company with UnitedHealth Group's former Chairman and CEO William W. McGuire, M.D., former General Counsel David J. Lubben, and former Director William G. Spears.
In addition, the SLC concluded that all claims against all named defendants in the derivative suits, including current and former UnitedHealth Group officers and directors should be dismissed. The SLC's conclusions are reflected in a final report delivered today to the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota and the Hennepin County District Court, State of Minnesota.
Under the McGuire settlement agreement, Dr. McGuire will:
 
These amounts, combined with a previous repricing of all stock options awarded to Dr. McGuire from 1994 to 2002, result in a total value to be relinquished by Dr. McGuire in excess of $600 million.
Under the Lubben settlement agreement, Mr. Lubben will:
 
These amounts, combined with a previous repricing of stock options awarded to Mr. Lubben, result in a total value relinquished by Mr. Lubben of approximately $30 million.
Under the Spears settlement agreement, the fair settlement value of the Company's claims against him will be determined by binding arbitration.
The SLC has valued the total amounts to be relinquished pursuant to these settlement agreements, together with the value previously and voluntarily relinquished by current and former executives through the surrender and repricing of options, to be approximately $900 million.
The settlement agreements and the dismissal of the derivative actions are subject to notice to the Company's shareholders and Court approval.
Richard Burke, Chairman of the Board of Directors, said, "The Board of Directors, on behalf of the Company and its shareholders, would like to express its deep appreciation for the extraordinary work of Justices Blatz and Stringer, the members of the independent, special committee created by the Board, throughout this lengthy and thorough process."
The SLC is comprised of two retired Minnesota State Supreme Court justices, former Chief Justice Kathleen Blatz and former Justice Edward Stringer. Pursuant to Minnesota law, the Board of Directors created the independent SLC and delegated to it complete authority to review the claims in the derivative litigation and determine whether those claims should be pursued on behalf of the Company.
Copies of the SLC's report and the McGuire and Lubben settlement agreements are available on the "Newsroom" section of the Company's website at www.unitedhealthgroup.com.
 
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 70 million individuals nationwide. Visit for more information.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "will" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and uncertainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause UnitedHealth Group's actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the potential consequences of the findings announced on October 15, 2006 of the investigation by an Independent Committee of directors of our historic stock option practices; the consequences of the restatement of our previous financial statements, related governmental reviews, including a formal investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and review by the Internal Revenue Service, U.S. Congressional committees, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and Minnesota Attorney General, a related review by the Special Litigation Committee of the Company, and related shareholder derivative actions, including whether court approval of the settlement agreements between the Company and certain named defendants and the dismissal of the derivative claims against all named defendants is obtained, shareholder demands and purported securities and Employee Retirement Income Security Act class actions, the resolution of matters currently subject to an injunction issued by the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota, a purported notice of acceleration with respect to certain of the Company's debt securities based upon an alleged event of default under the indenture governing such securities, and recent management and director changes, and the potential impact of each of these matters on our business, credit ratings and debt; increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption of or costs of medical services; heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers; events that may negatively affect our contract with AARP; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; funding risks with respect to revenues received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; failure to achieve business growth targets, including membership and enrollment; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased
litigation, legislative activity and government regulation and review of our industry; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service providers; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care provider disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; failure to complete or receive anticipated benefits of acquisitions; and change in debt to total capital ratio that is lower or higher than we anticipated.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.


