FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20070529213657.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "Annual Meeting") of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") was held on May 29, 2007. The shareholders of record of the Company's common stock at the close of business on April 9, 2007 were entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting. At the close of business on April 9, 2007, there were 1,341,568,237 shares of common stock of the Company outstanding. At the Annual Meeting, holders of 1,183,864,542 shares of common stock were represented in person or by proxy. The shareholders of the Company voted on the following matters at the Annual Meeting:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A copy of the Third Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company and a copy of the Third Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company approved by the shareholders are filed herewith as Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2, each of which is incorporated in Item 5.03 to this report by reference. A copy of the press release announcing the voting results of the matters voted upon at the meeting is also furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in Item 8.01 to this report by reference.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 29, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
1. The name of this corporation is UnitedHealth Group Incorporated.
2. The address of the registered office of this corporation is: c/o C T Corporation System Inc., 100 South Fifth Street, Suite 1075, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402. The name of the registered agent of this corporation is C T Corporation System Inc.
3. .
Capital Stock
(a) . The total number of shares of capital stock that this corporation is authorized to issue is 3,010,000,000 shares, including 3,000,000,000 shares of Common Stock, $.01 par value, and 10,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, $.001 par value. Shares of each class of stock of the corporation may be issued for such consideration and for such corporate purposes as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
Authorized Classes of Stock
(b) . The Board of Directors of the corporation is hereby authorized to issue from time to time one or more series of the Preferred Stock and, with respect to each such series, to fix by resolution of a majority of the whole Board of Directors the relative rights and preference of such series. The authority of the Board of Directors with respect to each series shall include, but not be limited to, the determination or fixing of the following:
Serial Preferred Stock
(i) The number of shares constituting such series and the designation of such series.
(ii) The dividend rate of such series, the conditions and dates upon which such dividends shall be payable, the relation which such dividends shall bear to the dividends payable on any other classes or series of the corporation's capital stock, and whether such dividends shall be cumulative or non-cumulative.
(iii) Whether the shares of such series shall be subject to redemption by the corporation at the option of either the corporation or the holder or both, or upon the happening of a specified event, and the terms and conditions of such redemption.
(iv) The terms and amount of any sinking fund provided for the purchase or redemption of the shares of such series.
(v) Whether or not the shares of such series shall be convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of any other class, and the terms of such conversion or exchange.
(vi) The restrictions, if any, on the issue or reissue of any additional Preferred Stock, including increases or decreases in the number of shares of any series subsequent to the issue of shares of that series.
(vii) The rights of the holders of the shares of such series upon the voluntary/involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation.
(viii) Any right to vote with holders of shares of any series or class.
(c) . The holders of the Common Stock shall have and possess all rights as shareholders of the corporation, except if such rights may be limited by the preferences, rights, limitations, and restrictions of the Preferred Stock.
Common Stock
(d) . No holders of shares of any class or series of this corporation shall have any pre-emptive rights to subscribe for any shares of any class or series of stock of this corporation, whether now or hereafter authorized, or for any obligations convertible into shares of any class or series of stock of this corporation, whether now or hereafter authorized.
Pre-emptive Rights
(e) . No holders of shares of any class or series of this corporation shall have any right to cumulate votes for the election of the Board of Directors.
Cumulative Voting
(f) . Shares of any class or series of the corporation may be issued to the holders of shares of another class or series of the corporation, whether to effect a share dividend or split or otherwise, without the authorization or approval of the holders of shares of any class or series of the corporation, except as otherwise provided in the designation of any series of Preferred Stock.
Shareholder Approval
4. .
Election of Directors
(a) Subject to the rights, if any, of the holders of one or more series of Preferred Stock, voting separately by series to elect directors in accordance with the terms of such Preferred Stock, each director shall be elected by the vote of a majority of the votes cast with respect to the director at a meeting of shareholders called for such purpose at which a quorum is present. For purposes of this paragraph (a), "a majority of the votes cast" means that the number of votes cast "for" a director must exceed the number of votes cast "against" that director.
 
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article 4, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes present and entitled to vote on the election of directors at any such meeting for which the number of nominees (other than nominees withdrawn on or before the day preceding the date the corporation first mails its notice for such meeting to the shareholders) exceeds the number of directors to be elected.
5. An action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the corporation may be taken by a written action, signed, or counterparts of a written action signed in the aggregate, by all of the directors unless the action need not be approved by the shareholders of the corporation, in which case the action may be taken by a written action signed, or counterparts of a written action signed in the aggregate, by the number of directors that would be required to take the same action at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the corporation at which all of the directors were present.
6. The provisions of Section 302A.671 of the Minnesota Statutes shall not apply to this corporation.
7. .
Liability of Directors
(a) A director of this corporation shall not be personally liable to the corporation or its shareholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability:
(i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the corporation or its shareholders;
(ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or that involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law;
(iii) under Sections 302A.559 or 80A.23 of the Minnesota Statutes;
(iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit; or
(v) for any act or omission occurring prior to the date when this Article 7 (including any predecessor provision) became effective.
(b) If the Minnesota Business Corporation Act is hereafter amended to authorize the further elimination or limitation of the liability of a director, then the liability of a director of the corporation shall be eliminated or limited to the fullest extent permitted by the Minnesota Business Corporation Act, as so amended.
(c) Any repeal or modification of the foregoing provisions of this Article 7 by the shareholders of the corporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification.
 

Exhibit 3.2
Section 1.01. . The registered office of the corporation in Minnesota shall be that set forth in the Restated Articles of Incorporation or in the most recent amendment of the Articles of Incorporation or resolution of the directors filed with the Secretary of State of Minnesota changing the registered office.
Registered Office
Section 1.02. . The corporation may have such other offices, within or without the State of Minnesota, as the directors shall, from time to time, determine.
Other Offices
Section 1.03. . The corporation shall have no seal.
Corporate Seal
Section 2.01. . Except as provided otherwise by Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 302A, meetings of the shareholders may be held at any place, within or without the State of Minnesota, or solely by remote communication (as defined in Section 301A.011(61) of the Minnesota Statutes) ("Remote Communication"), as may from time to time be designated by the directors and, in the absence of such designation, shall be held at the registered office of the corporation in the State of Minnesota. The directors shall designate the time of day for each meeting and, in the absence of such designation, every meeting of shareholders shall be held at ten o'clock a.m.
Place and Time of Meetings
Section 2.02. .
Regular Meetings
 
 
Section 2.03. . Special meetings of the shareholders may be held at any time and for any purpose and may be called by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Financial Officer, any two directors, or by a shareholder or shareholders
Special Meetings
holding ten percent (10%) or more of the shares entitled to vote on the matters to be presented to the meeting, except that a special meeting of shareholders called for the purpose of considering any action to directly or indirectly facilitate or effect a business combination (as defined by Minnesota Law), including any action to change or otherwise affect the composition of the Board of Directors for that purpose, may not be called by less than twenty-five percent (25%) of the shares entitled to vote on the matters to be presented at the meeting. The Board of Directors may designate that the special meeting is to be held solely by Remote Communication.
Section 2.04. . The holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any regular or special meeting. In case a quorum shall not be present at a meeting, those present may adjourn the meeting to such day as they shall, by majority vote, agree upon, and a notice of such adjournment and the date and time at which such meeting shall be reconvened shall be mailed to each shareholder entitled to vote at least 5 days before such adjourned meeting. If a quorum is present, a meeting may be adjourned from time to time without notice other than announcement at the meeting. At adjourned meetings at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed. If a quorum is present, the shareholders may continue to transact business until adjournment notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough shareholders to leave less than a quorum.
Quorum, Adjourned Meetings
Section 2.05. . At each meeting of the shareholders, every shareholder having the right to vote shall be entitled to vote either in person or by proxy. Each shareholder, unless the Articles of Incorporation or statute provide otherwise, shall have one vote for each share having voting power registered in such shareholder's name on the books of the corporation. Jointly owned shares may be voted by any joint owner unless the corporation receives written notice from any one of them denying the authority of that person to vote those shares. Upon the demand of any shareholder, the vote upon any question before the meeting shall be by ballot. All questions shall be decided by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the power of the shares present and entitled to vote on that item of business, except if otherwise required by statute, the Articles of the Incorporation, or these Bylaws.
Voting
Section 2.06. . The Board of Directors may fix a time, not exceeding 60 days preceding the date of any meeting of shareholders, as a record date for the determination of the shareholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, such meeting, notwithstanding any transfer of shares on the books of the corporation after any record date so fixed. The Board of Directors may close the books of the corporation against the transfer of shares during the whole or any part of such period. If the Board of Directors fails to fix a record date for determination of the shareholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, any meeting of shareholders, the record date shall be the 20th day preceding the date of such meeting.
Closing of Books
Section 2.07. . There shall be mailed to each shareholder, shown by the books of the corporation to be a holder of record of voting shares, a notice setting out the time and place or information regarding Remote Communication, if applicable, of each regular and each special meeting, except where the meeting is an adjourned meeting and the date, time and place of the meeting were announced at the time of adjournment, which notice shall be mailed at least five days prior thereto; except that notice of a meeting at which an agreement of
Notice of Meetings
 
merger or exchange is to be considered shall be mailed to all shareholders of record, whether entitled to vote or not, at least fourteen days prior thereto. Every notice of any special meeting called pursuant to Section 2.03 hereof shall state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting has been called, and the business transacted at all special meetings shall be confined to the purpose stated in the notice. Notice may be given by means of mail, or if consented to by the shareholder in a manner that complies with the federal securities laws, facsimile, electronic mail, electronic posting, or any other form of electronic communication to which the shareholder has consented.
Section 2.08. . Notice of any regular or special meeting may be waived by any shareholder either before, at or after such meeting orally, by "authenticated" "electronic communication" (as defined under Sections 302A.011(62) and 302A.011(60), respectively, of the Minnesota Statutes), or in a writing signed by such shareholder or a representative entitled to vote the shares of such shareholder. A shareholder, by his attendance at any meeting of shareholders or by his participation by means of Remote Communication, shall be deemed to have waived notice of such meeting, except where the shareholder objects at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of business because the item may not lawfully be considered at that meeting and does not participate in the consideration of the item at that meeting.
Waiver of Notice
Section 2.09. . Any action which might be taken at a meeting of the shareholders may be taken without a meeting if done in writing and signed, or consented to by "authenticated" "electronic communication" (as defined under Sections 302A.011(62) and 302A.011(60), respectively, of the Minnesota Statutes) by all of the shareholders entitled to vote on that action.
Written Action
Section 2.10. . A shareholder must provide written notice of any proposal to be submitted at an annual meeting and such notice must be delivered to the Secretary of the corporation so as to be received at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than 120 days in advance of the first anniversary of the date of the corporation's proxy statement released to shareholders in connection with the previous year's annual meeting of shareholders, except that if no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year's proxy statement, such notice must be so received a reasonable time before the solicitation is made. Each such notice shall set forth as to each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting; (b) the name and address of the shareholder proposing such business; (c) the class and number of share of the corporation which are beneficially owned by the shareholder; (d) any material interest of the shareholder in such business; and (e) such other information regarding such business as would be required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had the matter been proposed by the Board of Directors. Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be considered properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder unless it is brought in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.10.
Business to be Brought Before the Meeting
 
Section 2.11. . To the extent authorized by the Board, a shareholder, not physically present in person or by means of proxy, may, by any means of Remote Communication, participate in a meeting of shareholders held at a designated place. Participation by a shareholder by that means constitutes presence at the meeting.
Remote Communication
Section 3.01. . The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors, except as otherwise permitted by statute.
General Powers
Section 3.02. . The Board of Directors shall consist of one or more members, and the number of directors may be increased or decreased from time to time by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors present at a duly held meeting at the time the action is taken or the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares present and entitled to vote on that item of business, considered for this purpose as one class. Except as otherwise provided by law or by these Bylaws, the directors of the corporation shall be elected at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders in each year. Each of the directors shall hold office until the expiration of his term, as specified herein, and until such director's successor shall have been elected and shall qualify, or until the earlier death, resignation, or disqualification of such order.
Number, Election and Term of Office
Section 3.03. .
Nomination of Director Candidates
 
 
Section 3.04. .
Determination of Contested Elections
 
 
 
Section 3.05. . The Board of Directors may elect from their number a Chairman of the Board, who shall not be deemed an officer of the Corporation as a result of such title. The Chairman of the Board, if one is elected, shall preside at all meetings of the directors and shall have such other duties as may be prescribed, from time to time, by the Board of Directors.
Chairman of the Board
Section 3.06. . Meetings of the Board of Directors may be held from time to time at such time and place within or without the State of Minnesota or solely by Remote Communication as may be designated in the notice of such meeting.
Board Meetings
Section 3.07. . Meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board by giving at least twenty-four hours' notice, or by any other director by giving at least five days' notice, of the date, time and place or information regarding Remote Communication, if applicable, to each director in person or by mail, telephone, facsimile, electronic mail, electronic posting, or any other form of electronic communication.
Calling Meetings; Notice
 
Section 3.08. . Notice of any meeting of the Board of Directors may be waived by any director either before, at, or after such meeting orally or in a writing signed by such director. A director, by his attendance at any meeting of the Board of Directors, shall be deemed to have waived notice of such meeting, except where the director objects at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened and does not participate thereafter in the meeting.
Waiver of Notice
Section 3.09. . A majority of the directors holding office immediately prior to a meeting of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at such meeting.
Quorum
Section 3.10. . A director may give advance written or "authenticated" "electronic" (as defined under Sections 302A.011(62) and 302A.011(60), respectively, of the Minnesota Statutes) consent or opposition to a proposal to be acted on at a meeting of the Board of Directors. If such director is not present at the meeting, consent or opposition to a proposal does not constitute presence for purposes of determining the existence of a quorum, but consent or opposition shall be counted as a vote in favor of or against the proposal and shall be entered in the minutes or other record of action at the meeting, if the proposal acted on at the meeting is substantially the same or has substantially the same effect as the proposal to which the director has consented or objected.
Absent Directors
Section 3.11. . Any or all directors may participate in any meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any duly constituted committee thereof, by means of telephone conference or, if authorized by the Board, by such other means of Remote Communication through which the directors may simultaneously participate with each other during such meeting. For the purposes of establishing a quorum and taking any action at the meeting, such directors participating pursuant to this Section 3.11 shall be deemed present in person at the meeting.
Remote Communication
Section 3.12. . Vacancies in the Board of Directors of this corporation occurring by reason of death, resignation, removal or disqualification shall be filled for the unexpired term by a majority of the remaining directors of the Board although less than a quorum; newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the authorized number of directors by action of the Board of Directors as permitted by Section 3.02 may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors present at a duly held meeting at the time the action is taken.
Vacancies: Newly Created Directorships
Section 3.13. . Any or all of the directors may be removed from office at any time, with or without cause, in accordance with Section 302A.223 of the Minnesota Statutes.
Removal
 
Section 3.14. .
Committees
 
 
 
Section 3.15. . Any action which might be taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors, or any duly constituted committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if done in writing and signed or consented to by "authenticated" "electronic communication" (as defined under Sections 302A.011(62) and 302A.011(60), respectively, of the Minnesota Statutes) by all of the directors or committee members, unless the Articles provide for less than unanimous written action.
Written Action
Section 3.16. . Directors who are not salaried officers of this corporation shall receive such fixed sum per meeting attended or such fixed annual sum as shall be determined, from time to time, by resolution of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, provide that all directors shall receive their expenses, if any, of attendance at meetings of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving this corporation in any other capacity and receiving proper compensation therefor.
Compensation
Section 4.01. . The corporation shall have one or more natural persons exercising the functions of the offices of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. The Board of Directors may elect or appoint such other officers or agents as it deems necessary for the operation and management of the corporation, with such powers, rights, duties, and responsibilities as may be determined by the Board of Directors, including, without limitation, a President, one or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and such assistant officers or other officers as may from time to time be elected or appointed by the Board of
Number and Designation
 
Directors. Each such officer shall have the powers, rights, duties and responsibilities set forth in these Bylaws unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
Section 4.02. . Unless provided otherwise by a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer: (a) shall have general active management of the business of the corporation; (b) shall, when present, preside at all meetings of the stockholders; (c) shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect; (d) shall sign and deliver in the name of the corporation any deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments pertaining to the business of the corporation, except in cases in which the authority to sign and deliver is required by law to be exercised by another person or is expressly delegated by these Bylaws or the Board of Directors to some other officer or agent of the corporation; and (e) shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned by the Board of Directors.
Chief Executive Officer
Section 4.03. . Unless provided otherwise by a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chief Financial Officer: (a) shall cause to be kept accurate financial records for the corporation; (b) shall cause to be deposited all monies, drafts, and checks in the name of and to the credit of the corporation in such banks and depositories as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time; (c) shall cause to be endorsed for deposit all notes, checks and drafts received by the corporation as ordered by the Board of Directors, making proper vouchers therefor; (d) shall cause to be disbursed corporate funds and shall cause to be issued checks and drafts in the name of the corporation, as ordered by the Board of Directors; (e) shall render to the Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors, whenever requested, an account of all the transactions as Chief Financial Officer and of the financial condition of the corporation; and (f) shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer from time to time.
Chief Financial Officer
Section 4.04. . Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the corporation. If an officer other than the President is designated Chief Executive Officer, the President shall perform such duties as may from time to time be assigned by the Board of Directors.
President
Section 4.05. . Each Vice President shall perform such duties as may be prescribed from time to time by these Bylaws or by the Board of Directors.
Vice President
Section 4.06. . Unless provided otherwise by a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the Secretary: (a) shall attend all meetings of the stockholders and Board of Directors, and shall record all the proceedings of such meetings in the minute book of the corporation; (b) shall give proper notice of meetings of stockholders and Board of Directors and other notices required by law or these Bylaws; and (c) shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned by the Board of Directors.
Secretary
Section 4.07. . The Treasurer shall perform such duties as may from time to time be assigned by the Chief Financial Officer or by the Board of Directors.
Treasurer
 
Section 4.08. . In addition to the foregoing authority and duties, all officers of the corporation shall respectively have such authority and perform such duties in the management of the business of the corporation as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. Unless prohibited by a resolution of the Board of Directors, an officer elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may, without specific approval of the Board of Directors, delegate some or all of the duties and powers of an office to other persons.
Authority and Duties
Section 4.09. . The Board of Directors may remove any officer from office at any time, with or without cause, by a resolution approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present. Such removal, however, shall be without prejudice to the contract rights of the person so removed. A vacancy in an office of the corporation by reason of death, resignation, removal, disqualification, or otherwise may, or in the case of a vacancy in the office of the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer shall, be filled for the unexpired term by the Board of Directors.
Removal and Vacancies
Section 4.10. . The officers of this corporation shall receive such compensation for their services as may be determined by or in accordance with resolutions of the Board of Directors or by one or more committees to the extent so authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Compensation
Section 5.01. . The corporation may issue stock either in certificated or uncertificated form. If shares are issued in uncertificated form, each stockholder shall be entitled upon written request to a stock certificate or certificates, representing and certifying the number and kind of full shares held, signed as provided in this Section 5.01. Certificates for shares of stock shall be in such form as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe. The certificates for such shares shall be numbered in the order in which they shall be issued and shall be signed, in the name of the corporation, by the Chief Executive Officer or the President and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or by such officers as the Board of Directors may designate. If the certificate is signed by a transfer agent or registrar, such signatures of the corporate officers may be by facsimile if authorized by the Board of Directors. A certificate representing shares of this corporation shall contain on its face the information required by Minnesota Statutes, Section 302A.417, Subd. 4. A certificate representing shares issued by this corporation, if it is authorized to issue shares of more than one class or series, shall set forth upon the face or back of the certificate, or shall state that the corporation will furnish to any shareholder upon request and without charge, a full statement of the designations, preferences, limitations, and relative rights of the shares of each class or series authorized to be issued so far as they have been determined, and the authority of the Board of Directors to determine relative rights and preferences of subsequent classes or series. Every certificate surrendered to the corporation for exchange or transfer shall be canceled, and no new certificate or certificates shall be issued in exchange for any existing certificate until such existing certificate shall have been so canceled, except in cases provided for in Section 5.04.
Certificates for Shares
 
Section 5.02. . The Board of Directors is authorized to cause to be issued shares of the corporation up to the full amount authorized by the Articles of Incorporation in such amounts as may be determined by the Board of Directors and as may be permitted by law. No shares shall be allotted except in consideration of cash or other property, tangible or intangible, received or to be received by the corporation under a written agreement, of services rendered or to be rendered to the corporation under a written agreement, or of an amount transferred from surplus to stated capital upon a share dividend. At the time of such allotment of shares, the Board of Directors making such allotments shall state, by resolution, their determination of the fair value to the corporation in monetary terms of any consideration other than cash for which shares are allotted.
Issuance of Shares
Section 5.03. . The shares of stock of the corporation shall be transferable on the books of the corporation by the holder thereof in person or by his or her attorney upon surrender for cancellation of a certificate or certificates for the same number of shares, or other evidence of ownership if no certificates shall have been issued, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, and with such proof of the validity of the signature as the corporation or its agents may reasonably require. The corporation may treat as the absolute owner of shares of the corporation, the person or persons in whose name shares are registered on the books of the corporation. The Board of Directors may appoint one or more transfer agents and registrars to maintain the share records of the corporation and to effect share transfers on its behalf.
Transfer of Shares
Section 5.04. . Except as otherwise provided by Minnesota Statutes, Section 302A.419, any shareholder claiming a certificate for shares to be lost, stolen or destroyed shall make an affidavit of that fact in such form as the Board of Directors shall require and shall, if the Board of Directors so requires, give the corporation a bond of indemnity in form, in an amount, and with one or more sureties satisfactory to the Board of Directors, to indemnify the corporation against any claim which may be made against it on account of the reissue of such certificate, whereupon a new certificate may be issued in the same tenor and for the same number of shares as the one alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed.
Loss of Certificates
Section 6.01. . Subject to the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation, of these Bylaws, and of law, the Board of Directors may declare dividends whenever, and in such amounts as, in its opinion, are deemed advisable.
Dividends
Section 6.02. . Subject to any provisions of the Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may fix a date not exceeding 120 days preceding the date fixed for the payment of any dividend as the record date for the determination of the shareholders entitled to receive payment of the dividend and, in such case, only shareholders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled to receive payment of such dividend notwithstanding any transfer of shares on the books of the corporation after the record date. If no record date is fixed, the record date shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution authorizing the payment of such dividend.
Record Date
 
Section 7.01. . The Board of Directors of the corporation shall cause to be kept at its principal executive office, or at another place or places within the United States determined by the board:
Share Register
 
 
Section 7.02. . The Board of Directors shall cause to be kept at its principal executive office, or, if its principal executive office is not in Minnesota, shall make available at its registered office within ten days after receipt by an officer of the corporation of a written demand for them made by a shareholder or other person authorized by Minnesota Statutes Section 302A.461, originals or copies of:
Other Books and Records
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7.03. . The fiscal year of the corporation shall be determined by the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year
Section 8.01.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 9.01. The corporation shall indemnify such persons, for such expenses and liabilities, in such manner, under such circumstances, and to such extent as permitted by Minnesota Statutes, Section 302A.521, as now enacted or hereafter amended.
 
Section 10.01. These Bylaws may be amended or altered by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors present at a duly held meeting provided that notice of such proposed amendment shall have been given in the notice given to the directors of such meeting. Such authority in the Board of Directors is subject to the power of the shareholders to change or repeal such Bylaws by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares present and entitled to vote at any regular or special meeting of shareholders called for such purpose, and the Board of Directors shall not make or alter any Bylaws fixing a quorum for meetings of shareholders, prescribing procedures for removing directors or filling vacancies in the Board of Directors, or fixing the number of directors or their classifications, qualifications, or terms of office, except that the Board of Directors may adopt or amend any Bylaw to increase their number.
Section 11.01. . Unless otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer shall have full power and authority on behalf of the corporation (a) to attend any meeting of security holders of other corporations in which the corporation may hold securities and to vote such securities on behalf of this corporation; (b) to execute any proxy for such meeting on behalf of the corporation; or (c) to execute a written action in lieu of a meeting of such other corporation on behalf of this corporation. At such meeting, the Chief Executive officer shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and powers incident to the ownership of such securities that the corporation possesses. The Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may, from time to time, grant such power and authority to one or more other persons.
Voting Securities Held by the Corporation
Section 11.02. . Unless otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer shall have full power and authority on behalf of the corporation to purchase, sell, transfer or encumber any and all securities of any other corporation owned by the corporation, and may execute and deliver such documents as may be necessary to effectuate such purchase, sale, transfer or encumbrance. The Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may, from time to time, confer like powers upon any other person or persons.
Purchase and Sale of Securities
Section 12.01. Pursuant to the authority provided by Section 302A.673, Subd. 3(b)(2), of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act, this corporation elects not to be subject to Section 302A.673 of said Act.
 

Exhibit 99.1
N E W S   R E L E A S E
 
(For Immediate Release)
(May 29, 2007)  The Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) today announced the voting results of the Company's 2007 annual meeting of shareholders that took place earlier today.
MINNEAPOLIS
Election of Directors
By an overwhelming majority, the Company's shareholders re-elected William C. Ballard, Jr., Richard T. Burke and Stephen J. Hemsley to the Board of Directors and approved the appointment of Robert J. Darretta to the Board.
Voting Results on Company's and Shareholder Proposals
Shareholders also voted overwhelmingly in favor of the Company's proposals for significant changes to its Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws that increase the Board's accountability to shareholders. With shareholder votes for each Company proposal in excess of 90 percent, UnitedHealth Group shareholders agreed to the following amendments:
 
 
None of the four proposals from various investor groups were approved by shareholders.
Richard T. Burke, chairman of the Board of Directors, said, "Everyone at UnitedHealth Group is gratified by the strong shareholder support for the Company and the solid progress we have achieved in the past year in corporate governance. Today's voting results, both for our directors and the Company's proposals, reflect the investment community's renewed confidence in our executive leadership, our performance and our mission to improve health care. We will continue our dialogue with our shareholders as a critical component of our work to enhance corporate governance and to meet the high standards for business ethics we have set for the Company."
UnitedHealth Group's president and chief executive officer, Stephen J. Hemsley, said, "Over the last decade, UnitedHealth Group has built a solid foundation with well-positioned, unique business capabilities. Our strong performance creates significant future growth opportunities in a market that continues to evolve and change at an accelerating pace. In the next decade of our evolution, we will pursue expanding market opportunities created by the evolving health care environment and translate those opportunities into exceptional growth and financial performance for our shareholders. We now expect to build UnitedHealth Group all over again into three distinctive groups  the Individual and Employer Group, Public and Social Markets Group and the Enterprise Services Group. We will leverage the shared core competencies of each of our business groups, driving adaptation and growth by focusing on three distinctly different markets of enormous size."
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group () is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves approximately 70 million individuals nationwide.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Forward Looking Statements
This news release may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "will" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the potential consequences of the findings announced on October 15, 2006 of the investigation by an Independent Committee of directors of our stock option programs (including the consequences of our determination that the Company's financial
statements for the years ended 1994 to 2005, the interim periods contained therein, the quarter ended March 31, 2006 and all earnings and news releases, including for the quarters ended June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006, and similar communications issued by the Company for such periods and the related reports of the Company's independent registered public accounting firm should not be relied upon, the consequences of the resulting restatement of our financial statements for those periods, and delays in filing our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the second and third quarters of 2006), related governmental reviews, including a formal investigation by the SEC, and review by the IRS, U.S. Senate Finance Committee, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and Minnesota Attorney General, a related review by the Special Litigation Committee of the Company, and related shareholder derivative actions, shareholder demands and purported securities and Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) class actions, the resolution of matters currently subject to an injunction issued by the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota, a purported notice of acceleration with respect to certain of the Company's debt securities based upon an alleged event of default under the indenture governing such securities, and recent management and director changes, and the potential impact of each of these matters on our business, credit ratings and debt; increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption of or costs of medical services; heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers; events that may negatively affect our contract with AARP; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; funding risks with respect to revenues received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, legislative activity and government regulation and review of our industry; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service providers; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care provider disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; and anticipated benefits of acquiring PacifiCare that may not be realized.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.


