FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20070419062004.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On April 19, 2007, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing first quarter 2007 results. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference. The press release contains forward-looking statements regarding the Company.
To supplement our consolidated financial results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the press release also discloses certain non-GAAP financial measures which management believes provides useful information to investors. The reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the "Reconcilation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section of the press release.
As previously announced in the Company's press release dated March 23, 2007, on April 19, 2007, the Company will discuss its first quarter 2007 results, as well as the Company's strategy and future outlook, in a teleconference with analysts and investors. The Company will host a live webcast of this conference call at 8:45 a.m. Eastern Time from the Investor Relations page of the Company's web site (). The webcast replay will be available on the same site for one week following the live call. A copy of the teleconference script will also be available on the same site until the filing of the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 19, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
Net Earnings of $0.74 Per Share Up 17%, Prior to 409A Charges for Stock Option Matters
 
 
 
$1.1 Billion as Adjusted for CMS Payment Timing
 
MINNEAPOLIS (April 19, 2007)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) achieved strong results in the first quarter of 2007, including favorable operating margins and continued strong cash flows. Business developments and initiatives since year-end  including a broadened and extended relationship with AARP, the pending acquisition of Sierra Health Services, and advancements in its banking and technology platforms  position the Company for continuing diversified growth in the future.
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights
 
 
The Company has determined that certain stock options granted to nonexecutive officer employees were granted with an exercise price that was lower than the closing price of the Company's common stock on the applicable accounting measurement date and, as a result, these individuals may be subject to additional tax under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. The Company has decided to pay these individuals' additional tax costs under Section 409A for such stock options exercised in 2006. For any such stock options remaining outstanding that were granted under its 2002 Stock Incentive Plan to nonexecutive officers, the Company increased the exercise price and will make cash payments beginning in 2008 to these holders for vested options equal to the difference between the original stock option price and the revised increased stock option price. As previously disclosed, on December 29, 2006, the Company entered into agreements to increase the exercise price of outstanding stock options to avoid additional tax under Section 409A with all individuals who were executive officers of the Company at the time of grant of an applicable stock option. No compensation was payable to any of those individuals. The Company's first quarter results include a $55 million charge, net of tax benefit ($87 million pre-tax) for the stock options exercised in 2006 and a $57 million modification charge, net of tax benefit ($89 million pre-tax) for increasing the exercise price of stock options granted to nonexecutive officers that are not yet exercised. These amounts have been recorded as corporate expenses and not allocated to individual business segments. When the modified stock options are subsequently exercised, the Company will recover cash payments from exercise proceeds at the revised increased stock option prices.
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights  Continued
 
 
 
 
Outlook and Comment
UnitedHealth Group currently foresees 2007 earnings per share in the range of $3.34 to $3.38 including $0.08 in 409A charges related to stock option matters. Excluding these 409A charges and based on strong first quarter results, the Company is increasing its 2007 outlook to a range of $3.42 to $3.46, with revenues projected to approximate $77 billion. The Company anticipates progressive gains in quarterly operating earnings over the balance of 2007 because a number of its businesses expect seasonal increases in their profitability as the year continues. Second quarter earnings per share are anticipated in the range of $0.80 to $0.82 per share. Management is increasing its outlook for full-year cash flows from operations from a range of $6.0 billion to $6.2 billion to a target of $6.2 billion or more.
Stephen J. Hemsley, president and chief executive officer of UnitedHealth Group, said, "Our first quarter results demonstrate the value of building and operating a diverse group of businesses with participation in a broad expanse of distinct end markets within health care. In that regard, we are pleased and honored to renew and expand our relationship with AARP, the pre-eminent organization serving people over age 50."
 
Business Description  Health Care Services
The Health Care Services segment consists of the UnitedHealthcare, AmeriChoice and Ovations business units. UnitedHealthcare coordinates network-based health and well-being services on behalf of mid-sized and small employers and for consumers. AmeriChoice facilitates and manages health care services for state Medicaid programs and their beneficiaries. Ovations delivers health care services to Americans over the age of 50.
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  Uniprise
Uniprise delivers network-based health and well-being services, business-to-business transaction processing services, consumer connectivity, and technology support services to large employers and health plans, and provides health-related consumer and financial transaction products and services.
 
Key Developments for Uniprise
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  Specialized Care Services
Specialized Care Services offers a comprehensive array of specialized benefits, networks, services and resources to make health care work better by connecting people to proven solutions for health and well-being.
 
Key Developments for Specialized Care Services
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  Ingenix
Ingenix is a leader in the field of health care data, analysis and application, serving pharmaceutical companies, health insurers and other payers, physicians and other health care providers, large employers and governments.
 
Key Developments for Ingenix
 
 
 
 
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group (www.unitedhealthgroup.com) is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves approximately 70 million individuals nationwide.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "will" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause UnitedHealth Group's actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the potential consequences of the findings announced on October 15, 2006 of the investigation by an Independent Committee of directors of our historic stock option practices, the consequences of the restatement of our previous financial statements, related governmental reviews, including a formal investigation by the SEC, and review by the IRS, U.S. Congressional committees, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and Minnesota Attorney General, a related review by the Special Litigation Committee of the Company, and related shareholder derivative actions, shareholder demands and purported securities and Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) class actions, the resolution of matters currently subject to an injunction issued by the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota, a purported notice of acceleration with respect to certain of the Company's debt securities based upon an alleged event of default under the indenture governing such securities, and recent management and director changes, and the potential impact of each of these matters on our business, credit ratings and debt; increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption of or costs of medical services; heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers; events that may negatively affect our contract with AARP; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; funding risks with respect to revenues received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, legislative activity and government regulation and review of our industry; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service providers; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care provider disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences; possible impairment of
 
the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; and anticipated benefits of acquisitions that may not be realized.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Earnings Conference Call
As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the Company's results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 8:45 a.m. Eastern time today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Investor Information page of the Company's Web site (www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The webcast replay of the call will be available on the same site for one week following the live call. The conference call replay can also be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID #3052569. This earnings release and the Form 8-K dated April 19, 2007, which may also be accessed in the Investor Information section of the Company's Web site, include a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
 
 
 
 
 
The table below summarizes certain non-GAAP balance sheet data excluding AARP related amounts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


