FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20070719062017.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On July 19, 2007, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing second quarter 2007 results. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference. The press release contains forward-looking statements regarding the Company.
To supplement our consolidated financial results as determined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the press release also discloses certain non-GAAP financial measures which management believes provide useful information to investors and improve the comparability of the Company's results between periods. The reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the "Reconcilation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section of the press release.
As previously announced in the Company's press release dated June 22, 2007, on July 19, 2007, the Company will discuss its second quarter 2007 results, as well as the Company's strategy and future outlook, in a teleconference with analysts and investors. The Company will host a live webcast of this conference call at 8:45 a.m. Eastern Time from the Investor Relations page of the Company's web site (). The webcast replay will be available on the same site for one week following the live call. A copy of the teleconference prepared remarks will also be available on the same site until the filing of the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 19, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
 
 
MINNEAPOLIS (July 19, 2007)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) achieved strong results in the second quarter of 2007, including favorable operating margins and continued robust cash flows and earnings.
Stephen J. Hemsley, president and chief executive officer of UnitedHealth Group, said, "Our uniquely diversified business model enables us to deliver strong and sustainable performance, as reflected in the positive results in earnings and cash flows from operations this quarter. Importantly, we continue to advance distinctive capabilities in such areas as care facilitation, financial services, network development and relationships, and in our ability to help people become more effective health care consumers and achieve better health outcomes. We expect to continue to leverage these capabilities into sustained growth and performance in 2008 and beyond."
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group highlights  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
Based on strong second quarter results, UnitedHealth Group is broadening the range of projected outcomes in its outlook for 2007 earnings and increasing the upper end by 2 cents per share. UnitedHealth Group now projects 2007 earnings per share in the range of $3.43 to $3.48, excluding $0.08 in 409A charges related to historic stock option matters, with revenues projected to approximate $76 billion. Third quarter earnings are anticipated in the range of $0.91 to $0.93 per share. Including the first quarter 409A charges, the Company anticipates full year earnings will be in the range of $3.35 to $3.40 per share.
 
Business Description  Health Care Services
The Health Care Services segment consists of the UnitedHealthcare, AmeriChoice and Ovations business units. UnitedHealthcare coordinates network-based health and well-being services on behalf of mid-sized and small employers and for consumers. AmeriChoice facilitates and manages health care services for state Medicaid programs and their beneficiaries. Ovations delivers health care services to Americans over the age of 50.
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services
 
 
 
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  Uniprise
Uniprise delivers network-based health and well-being services, business-to-business transaction processing services, consumer connectivity, and technology support services to large employers and health plans, and provides health-related consumer and financial transaction products and services.
 
Key Developments for Uniprise
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  Specialized Care Services
Specialized Care Services offers a comprehensive array of specialized benefits, networks, services and resources to make health care work better by connecting people to proven solutions for health and well-being.
 
Key Developments for Specialized Care Services
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  Ingenix
Ingenix is a leader in the field of health care data, analysis and application, serving pharmaceutical companies, health insurers and other payers, physicians and other health care providers, large employers and governments.
 
Key Developments for Ingenix
 
 
 
 
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group () is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, Specialized Care Services and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 70 million individuals nationwide.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "will" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and unknown certainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause UnitedHealth Group's actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the potential consequences of the findings announced on October 15, 2006 of the investigation by an Independent Committee of directors of our historic stock option practices, the consequences of the restatement of our previous financial statements, related governmental reviews, including a formal investigation by the SEC, and review by the IRS, U.S. Congressional committees, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and Minnesota Attorney General, a related review by the Special Litigation Committee of the Company, and related shareholder derivative actions, shareholder demands and purported securities and Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) class actions, the resolution of matters currently subject to an injunction issued by the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota, a purported notice of acceleration with respect to certain of the Company's debt securities based upon an alleged event of default under the indenture governing such securities, and recent management and director changes, and the potential impact of each of these matters on our business, credit ratings and debt; increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption of or costs of medical services; heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers; events that may negatively affect our contract with AARP; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; funding risks with respect to revenues received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, legislative activity and government regulation and review of our industry; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service providers; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care provider disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences; possible impairment of
 
the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; and anticipated benefits of acquisitions that may not be realized.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Earnings Conference Call
As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the Company's results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 8:45 a.m. Eastern time today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Investor Information page of the Company's Web site (www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The webcast replay of the call will be available on the same site for one week following the live call. The conference call replay can also be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID #3054384. This earnings release and the Form 8-K dated July 19, 2007, which may also be accessed in the Investor Information section of the Company's Web site, include a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
 
- Consolidated Statements of Operations
- Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
- Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
- Segment Financial Information
- Customer Profile Summary
- Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
- Operating Results Excluding IRS Section 409A Charges
- Adjusted Cash Flows from Operating Activities
- Consolidated Reporting Excluding AARP
- 2007 Forecasted Operating Results
 
 
 
 
The table below summarizes certain non-GAAP balance sheet data excluding AARP related amounts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


