FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20080722061345.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 22, 2008, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its second quarter 2008 results. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release contains the following non-GAAP financial measures for second quarter and full-year 2008, which exclude the impacts of the proposed settlement of the securities and Employee Retirement Income Security Act class action lawsuits related to the Company's historical stock option practices and related legal costs, a pre-tax operating cost charge for employee severance related to operating cost reduction initiatives and other items, and a pre-tax reduction in operating costs for proceeds from the sale of certain assets and membership in the individual Medicare Advantage business in Nevada in May 2008: adjusted second quarter 2008 operating cost ratio, adjusted second quarter 2008 operating margin, adjusted second quarter 2008 earnings from operations, adjusted second quarter 2008 tax rate, adjusted second quarter 2008 net earnings, adjusted second quarter 2008 diluted net earnings per common share, adjusted full-year 2008 operating cost ratio estimate, adjusted full-year 2008 earnings from operations estimate, adjusted full-year 2008 operating margin estimate, adjusted full-year 2008 tax rate estimate, adjusted full-year 2008 diluted net earnings per common share estimate, and adjusted full-year 2008 cash flows from operations estimate. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures to these non-GAAP measures are as follows, respectively:
 
Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are attached to the press release.
The information in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 22, 2008
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
 
 
(July 22, 2008)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) today reported its second quarter results, which included year-over-year gains in people served and revenues. Adjusting for special items, second quarter net earnings per share exceeded the Company's revised outlook provided in early July 2008. Special items included legal settlements, employee severance costs and the sale of certain Nevada senior market assets.
MINNEAPOLIS
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group  continued
Stephen J. Hemsley, president and chief executive officer of UnitedHealth Group, said, "During the first and second quarters we initiated important actions to improve our performance, and we are seeing progress on those actions that we expect will strengthen our Company and our future financial results." Actions taken include leadership and business alignment changes at UnitedHealthcare and Ovations and in certain enterprise functions that strengthen the Company's level of engagement and stakeholder relationships in local markets, improve responsiveness, and decrease operating costs. Additional steps include benefit revisions for 2009 Medicare offerings that are expected to improve margins in certain Medicare Part D and Special Needs Plan offerings; strengthened commercial market pricing disciplines for risk-based offerings; broad-based efforts to properly match the size of the workforce and the operating cost structure with the current growth profile of our businesses; and substantive progress in addressing historical legal matters.
"A number of areas of strength reflect the benefits of our diversified businesses and strategy," continued Hemsley. "Our public sector Medicaid business is building toward record organic revenue growth in 2009; our fee-based benefits businesses are stable and ahead of original 2008 membership plans; and generic pharmaceutical utilization and mail service usage by customers of our pharmacy benefit management business are up sharply. Our Medicare supplement products are growing steadily and our health information technology and service offerings continue to produce solid growth as well."
Outlook
The Company continues to anticipate full year 2008 net earnings per share in the range of $2.95 to $3.05 per share
1
and cash flows from operations approaching $5 billion
1
, as adjusted. The Company expects to continue its substantive share repurchase program over the course of 2008, with a total of more than $3 billion in repurchase activity planned for the full year, after considering cash payments for legal settlements.
 
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
Given the diversity and mix of the business and seasonality considerations, management believes year-over-year comparisons are the most meaningful. Sequential quarterly comparisons are affected by the seasonality of revenues, medical expenses, operating costs and earnings from operations in important business lines such as Medicare Part D drug programs, high deductible insurance products and health informatics offerings.
UnitedHealth Group Highlights
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  Health Care Services
Health Care Services provides network-based health care benefits and services for a full spectrum of customers. UnitedHealthcare serves employers ranging from sole proprietorships to large, multi-site and national employers, as well as students and individuals. In the Public and Senior Markets Group, Ovations delivers health and well-being services to Americans over the age of 50, while AmeriChoice manages health care services for state Medicaid and other publicly-funded programs and their beneficiaries.
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services
 
 
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  OptumHealth
OptumHealth is one of the nation's largest health and wellness companies. Employers, payers and public sector organizations use OptumHealth behavioral benefit solutions, clinical care management, financial services and specialty benefit products such as dental and vision to help consumers navigate the health care system, finance their health care needs and achieve their health and well-being goals.
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
Key Developments for OptumHealth
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  Ingenix
Ingenix is a leader in the field of health care information, services and consulting, serving pharmaceutical companies, health insurers and other payers, physicians and other health care providers, large employers and governments.
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
Key Developments for Ingenix
 
 
 
 
Business Description  Prescription Solutions
Prescription Solutions offers a comprehensive array of pharmacy benefit management and specialty pharmacy management services to employer groups, union trusts, seniors through Medicare prescription drug plans, and commercial health plans.
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
Key Developments for Prescription Solutions
 
 
 
 
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, OptumHealth, Ingenix and Prescription Solutions. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 70 million individuals nationwide. Visit for more information.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Earnings Conference Call
As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the Company's results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 9:00 a.m. Eastern time today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Investors page of the Company's Web site (www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The webcast replay of the call will be available on the same site through August 1 following the live call. The conference call replay can also be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID #28400853. This earnings release and the Form 8-K dated July 22, 2008, which may also be accessed from the Investors page of the Company's Web site, include a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "will" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and uncertainties and involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the potential consequences of the findings announced on October 15, 2006 of the investigation by an Independent Committee of directors of our historical stock option practices; the consequences of the restatement of our previous financial statements, related governmental reviews, including a formal investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and review by the Internal Revenue Service, U.S. Congressional committees, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and Minnesota Attorney General, a related review by the Special Litigation Committee of the Company, and related shareholder derivative actions, including obtaining court approval of the settlement agreements between the Company and certain named defendants and the dismissal of the derivative claims against all named defendants, shareholder demands, and purported securities and Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) class actions, including the completion of final documentation relating to the settlement of the securities and ERISA class actions, obtaining approval of the proposed settlement of the securities class action by the boards of directors of the California Public Employees' Retirement System and the Company, and obtaining court approval of the proposed settlement of the securities and ERISA class actions, the resolution of matters currently subject to an injunction issued by the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota, a purported notice of acceleration with respect to certain of the Company's debt securities based upon an alleged event of default under the indenture governing such securities, and recent management and director changes, and the potential impact of each of these matters on our business, credit ratings and debt; increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption of or costs of
 
medical services; heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers; events that may negatively affect our contracts with AARP; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; funding risks with respect to revenues received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; failure to achieve business growth targets, including membership and enrollment; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, legislative activity and government regulation and review of our industry; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service professionals; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care professional disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; failure to complete or receive anticipated benefits of acquisitions; change in debt to total capital ratio that is lower or higher than we anticipated; and the potential consequences of the New York Attorney General's investigation into our provider reimbursement practices.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including the cautionary statements in our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
- Consolidated Statements of Operations
- Non-GAAP Operating Results Excluding Special Items
- Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
- Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
- Segment Financial Information
- Customer Profile Summary
- 2008 Revised Outlook
- Non-GAAP Reconciliation of 2008 Forecasted Operating Results
- Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
 
 
Refer to page 3 for a reconciliation of our second quarter GAAP results to those excluding special items.
 
 
 
Refer to page 10 for further discussion of our use of Non-GAAP financial measures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Refer to page 10 for further discussion of our use of Non-GAAP financial measures.
 
 
Refer to page 10 for further discussion of our use of Non-GAAP financial measures.
 
Operating results excluding special items and adjusted 2008 forecasted operating results as used in the press release are not calculated in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for or superior to financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Management believes that the use of each of these non-GAAP financial measures improves the comparability of our results between periods. These financial measures provide investors and our management with useful information to measure and forecast our results of operations, to compare on a consistent basis our results of operations for the current period to that of prior periods, and to compare our results of operations on a more consistent basis against that of other companies in the health care industry.
These non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the special items associated with the operations of our business as determined in accordance with GAAP. As a result, one should not consider these measures in isolation. We compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as non-GAAP basis, disclosing these GAAP financial measures, and providing a reconciliation from GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures.
 


