FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20080122061355.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 22, 2008, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing fourth quarter and full-year 2007 results. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference.
The press release contains the following non-GAAP financial measures for full-year 2007, which reflect the exclusion of certain charges under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code: adjusted earnings from operations, adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, adjusted operating cost ratio, and adjusted operating margin. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures to these non-GAAP measures for full-year 2007 are as follows, respectively:
 
Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the financial schedules attached to the press release.
The information in this Item 2.02, including the Exhibit attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 22, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
MINNEAPOLIS (January 22, 2008)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) achieved record revenues and earnings in 2007. Revenues exceeded $75 billion and were supported by expanded operating margins and strong earnings growth.
Stephen J. Hemsley, president and chief executive officer of UnitedHealth Group, said, "This was a year defined by strong earnings and financial performance, driven by improved service and operational execution, and accompanied by ongoing innovation to enhance health care. We continue to generate value through our balanced, diversified business strategy, which enables us to contribute meaningful improvements across the entire health care spectrum."
 
 
Quarterly and Annual Financial Performance
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights
UnitedHealth Group reported growth in earnings from operations for all reporting segments in 2007. Fourth quarter results included growth in earnings from operations for Prescription Solutions, OptumHealth and Ingenix, while Health Care Services fourth quarter earnings from operations decreased modestly, as expected.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Highlights for UnitedHealth Group  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously disclosed, during the fourth quarter of 2007 the Company completed the realignment of its business segment financial reporting. The most prominent changes to segment reporting include disclosure of the results of operations of the pharmacy benefit management business  Prescription Solutions  as a free-standing segment, and the inclusion of the large group, multi-site health benefits company  Uniprise  as part of the Health Care Services reporting segment. The fourth quarter and full year 2007 information reflects this new reporting structure. Historical financial data also reflect the new segment presentation to enhance comparability between periods.
Outlook
UnitedHealth Group continues to project earnings of approximately $3.95 to $4.00 per share for full year 2008, an increase of approximately 13 percent to 14 percent over adjusted 2007 results, and cash flows from operations are expected to approach $7 billion. First quarter 2008 earnings are expected to be in the range of $0.82 to $0.84 per share.
 
Business Description  Health Care Services
The Health Care Services segment provides a diverse set of customers with health benefit offerings that address their needs for greater access to affordable, quality care, and that are supported through common networks integrated with shared clinical resources. Within Health Care Services, UnitedHealthcare coordinates network-based health and well-being services on behalf of small and mid-sized local and multi-state employers and for individuals, while Uniprise provides these services on a dedicated basis to large, multi-site employers. Ovations delivers health and well-being services to Americans over the age of 50, and AmeriChoice manages health care services for state Medicaid programs and their beneficiaries.
Quarterly and Annual Financial Performance
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services
The fourth quarter for the Health Care Services segment included important product launch activities for UnitedHealthcare, improving AmeriChoice financial performance, intensive marketing of Ovations Medicare Advantage offerings for January 2008, and sequential growth in fee-based employer-sponsored product lines offset by a decrease in consumers served under risk-based arrangements.
 
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  OptumHealth
OptumHealth optimizes health, well-being and financial security for people and organizations through personalized health advocacy and engagement, specialized benefits such as behavioral, dental and vision offerings, and health financial services. OptumHealth helps people improve their lives by making informed decisions about their health and health care finances.
Quarterly and Annual Financial Performance
 
Key Developments for OptumHealth
During 2007, UnitedHealth Group rebranded its specialty businesses as OptumHealth, reinforcing their personalized, caring and lifelong relationships with consumers. The unified OptumHealth image better reflects its comprehensive and integrated capabilities.
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description
Ingenix is a leader in the field of health care data, analysis and application, serving pharmaceutical companies, health insurers and other payers, physicians and other health care providers, large employers and governments.
Quarterly and Annual Financial Performance
 
Key Developments for Ingenix
Ingenix continues to build momentum, with strong growth in virtually every performance metric. This business is responding to the growing needs for data-driven solutions, analytics and consulting services by all participants across the health care system. Fourth quarter results show particularly notable strength due to the seasonal sales activity that occurs annually in the fourth quarter in certain Ingenix product lines.
 
 
 
 
Business Description
Prescription Solutions offers a comprehensive array of pharmacy benefit management and specialty pharmacy management services to employer groups, union trusts, seniors through Medicare prescription drug plans, and commercial health plans.
Quarterly and Annual Financial Performance
 
Key Developments for Prescription Solutions
During 2007 Prescription Solutions was established as a free-standing reporting segment of UnitedHealth Group and continued to strengthen its capabilities as it positioned for growth.
 
 
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through seven operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Uniprise, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Prescription Solutions, OptumHealth and Ingenix. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 70 million individuals nationwide. Visit for more information.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Earnings Conference Call
As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the Company's results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 8:45 a.m. Eastern time today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Investor Information page of the Company's Web site (www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The webcast replay of the call will be available on the same site for one week following the live call. The conference call replay can also be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID #28398813. This earnings release and the Form 8-K dated January 22, 2008, which may also be accessed in the Investor Information section of the Company's Web site, include a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "will" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and uncertainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause UnitedHealth Group's actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the potential consequences of the findings announced on October 15, 2006 of the investigation by an Independent Committee of directors of our historic stock option practices; the consequences of the restatement of our previous financial statements, related governmental reviews, including a formal investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and review by the Internal Revenue Service, U.S. Congressional committees, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and Minnesota Attorney General, a related review by the Special Litigation Committee of the Company, and related shareholder derivative actions, including whether court approval of the settlement agreements between the Company and certain named defendants and the dismissal of the derivative claims against all named defendants is obtained, shareholder demands and purported securities and Employee Retirement Income Security Act class actions, the resolution of matters currently subject to an injunction issued by the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota, a purported notice of acceleration with respect to certain of the Company's debt securities based upon an alleged event of default under the indenture governing such securities, and recent management and director changes, and the potential impact of each of these matters on our business, credit ratings and debt; increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption of or costs of medical services; heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers; events that may negatively affect our contract with AARP; uncertainties regarding
 
changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; funding risks with respect to revenues received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; failure to achieve business growth targets, including membership and enrollment; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, legislative activity and government regulation and review of our industry; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service providers; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care provider disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; failure to complete or receive anticipated benefits of acquisitions; and change in debt to total capital ratio that is lower or higher than we anticipated.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REVENUES
 
 
REVENUES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


