FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20080422063427.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 22, 2008, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing first quarter 2008 results. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference.
The press release contains the following non-GAAP financial measures for first quarter 2007, which reflect the exclusion of certain charges under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code or the modification of the timing of receiving certain premium payments from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services: adjusted net earnings per share, adjusted earnings from operations, adjusted operating margin, adjusted net earnings, adjusted operating costs and adjusted cash flows from operations. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures to these non-GAAP measures for first quarter 2007 are as follows, respectively:
 
Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the financial schedules attached to the press release.
The information in this Item 2.02, including the Exhibit attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensation Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On April 22, 2008, the Company announced that on April 21, 2008, David S. Wichmann, Executive Vice President and President of the Commercial Markets Group of the Company, assumed the role of President, UnitedHealth Group Operations with responsibility for managing, on an enterprise-wide basis, several areas of the Company, including optimizing business performance, strengthening and aligning the Company's organization, overseeing the Company's operations, technology, and quality agenda, and managing corporate development, research, international operations and all integration efforts. A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated in this Item 5.02 by reference.
Mr. Wichmann served as Executive Vice President of the Company and President of the Commercial Markets Group from December 2006 to April 2008. From July 2004 to December 2006, Mr. Wichmann served as President and Chief Operating Officer of UnitedHeathcare. From June 2003 to July 2004, Mr. Wichmann served as Chief Executive Officer of Specialized Care Services (now
OptumHealth). He also served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Specialized Care Services during 2003. Mr. Wichmann joined UnitedHealth Group in 1998 and held various executive positions with the Company from 1998 to 2003.
Mr. Wichmann has not been directly or indirectly involved in any transaction, proposed transaction, or series of similar transactions with the Company required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K. The Company and Mr. Wichmann have not entered into any new agreement or made any material amendments to Mr. Wichmann's existing employment agreement in connection with the new appointment.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 22, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
MINNEAPOLIS (April 22, 2008)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) today reported its first quarter 2008 performance, including year-over-year gains in people served, revenues, and net earnings per share. First quarter results reflect strong growth advances in Enterprise Services businesses including financial services, and Medicaid programs, offset by higher than anticipated declines in risk-based commercial business, and reduced investment income, prior to accounting for realized capital gains in the Company's investment portfolio.
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group  Continued
The Company reduced its full year 2008 outlook by 10 percent or $0.40 per share to a range of $3.55 to $3.60 per share. This reduction includes an anticipated $0.10 per share impact from unusually high influenza costs and reduced investment income, net of capital gains, and adjustments reducing anticipated rates of revenue growth and margin assumptions for risk-based Commercial Markets products  where membership levels have declined in response to strengthened premium yield increases in 2008  and certain senior products, where the timing of membership gains and the product mix have changed. Management estimates the full year UnitedHealth Group medical care ratio to be in a range centered around 81.3 percent, plus or minus 50 basis points, compared to 80.6 percent in 2007. While the Company is attentive to the risk of future medical cost increases, management believes the commercial medical cost trend is consistent with its previously projected range.
Stephen J. Hemsley, president and chief executive officer of UnitedHealth Group, said, "These financial results are not acceptable for a company with our capabilities and potential. They are due in part to broader economic challenges and in part to our own performance. We are adjusting our approaches, in particular to strengthen organic growth and address operating costs, to deliver financial performance that more appropriately represents the capacity and potential of our organization. We remain focused on our long-term strategy of building an integrated health services system supporting a spectrum of innovative market-facing businesses, and we believe that the creation and operation of that enterprise will build exceptional value for its customers, business partners and shareholders. Our first quarter results and new outlook include some of the successes we are seeing as we pursue that goal."
A number of highlights are evident in the revised growth outlook, including strong growth for AmeriChoice and Ingenix and strong operating performance from Prescription Solutions, including increased mail service fulfillment and generic drug utilization. Ovations Special Needs Plans are expanding more strongly than expected, which the Company believes will be positive for the future. In Commercial Markets, the Company's leading position in consumer-driven benefit products continues to strengthen, with exceptional growth achieved in first quarter 2008. Consumer participation in fee-based benefits in the Commercial Markets Group was also stronger than expected, with more people electing UnitedHealth Group benefits at large employers offering multiple benefit providers. Management believes that the Company's improved service levels, broad and stable network and overall clinical value proposition were key factors to the stronger consumer participation.
The Company remains committed to substantive share repurchase over the course of 2008, with a total of $4 billion in repurchase activity planned for the full year.
 
 
Given the diversity and changing mix of the business and seasonality considerations, management believes comparisons between first quarter 2008 and fourth quarter 2007 results are less meaningful than year-over-year quarterly comparisons. Sequential quarterly comparisons are affected by the seasonality of revenues, key income statement ratios, and earnings from operations in important business lines such as Part D drug programs, high deductible insurance products and health informatics offerings.
UnitedHealth Group Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights  Continued
 
 
 
 
Outlook
UnitedHealth Group anticipates earnings of $3.55 to $3.60 per share in 2008, with revenues projected in the $81 billion to $82 billion range. Management anticipates full year cash flows from operations approaching $6 billion, and expects the Company will repurchase $4 billion of stock during 2008. The financial schedules included in this news release include additional data elements pertaining to the Company's revised 2008 outlook.
 
Business Description  Health Care Services
Within the Health Care Services Commercial Markets Group, UnitedHealthcare coordinates network-based health and well-being services for small and mid-sized employers and for individuals, while Uniprise provides these services on a dedicated basis to large, multi-site employers. In the Public and Senior Markets Group, Ovations delivers health and well-being services to Americans over the age of 50. AmeriChoice manages health care services for state Medicaid programs and their beneficiaries.
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services
 
 
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  OptumHealth
OptumHealth helps consumers better access and navigate the health care system, finance their health care needs and achieve their health and well-being goals. OptumHealth delivers personalized consumer health advocacy and consumer engagement and education programs through a combination of capabilities that encompass specialty benefits, behavioral benefit solutions, clinical care engagement and financial services.
 
Key Developments for OptumHealth
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  Ingenix
Ingenix is a leader in the field of health care information, analysis and application, serving pharmaceutical companies, health insurers and other payers, physicians and other health care providers, large employers and governments.
 
Key Developments for Ingenix
 
 
 
 
Business Description  Prescription Solutions
Prescription Solutions offers a comprehensive array of pharmacy benefit management and specialty pharmacy management services to employer groups, union trusts, seniors through Medicare prescription drug plans, and commercial health plans.
 
Key Developments for Prescription Solutions
 
 
 
 
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through seven operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Uniprise, Ovations, AmeriChoice, OptumHealth, Ingenix and Prescription Solutions. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 70 million individuals nationwide. Visit for more information.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Earnings Conference Call
As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the Company's results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 9:00 a.m. Eastern time today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Investor Information page of the Company's Web site (www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The webcast replay of the call will be available on the same site for one week following the live call. The conference call replay can also be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID #28400383. This earnings release and the Form 8-K dated April 22, 2008, which may also be accessed in the Investor Information section of the Company's Web site, include a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release including the schedules and supplementary information attached hereto, may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "will" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and uncertainties and involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the potential consequences of the findings announced on October 15, 2006 of the investigation by an Independent Committee of directors of our historical stock option practices; the consequences of the restatement of our previous financial statements, related governmental reviews, including a formal investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and review by the Internal Revenue Service, U.S. Congressional committees, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and Minnesota Attorney General, a related review by the Special Litigation Committee of the Company, and related shareholder derivative actions, including whether court approval of the settlement agreements between the Company and certain named defendants and the dismissal of the derivative claims against all named defendants is obtained, shareholder demands and purported securities and Employee Retirement Income Security Act class actions, the resolution of matters currently subject to an injunction issued by the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota, a purported notice of acceleration with respect to certain of the Company's debt securities based upon an alleged event of default under the indenture governing such securities, and recent management and director changes, and the potential impact of each of these matters on our business, credit ratings and debt; increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption of or costs of medical services; heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers; events that may negatively affect our contracts with AARP; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; funding risks with respect to revenues received
 
from Medicare and Medicaid programs; failure to achieve business growth targets, including membership and enrollment; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, legislative activity and government regulation and review of our industry; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service providers; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care provider disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; failure to complete or receive anticipated benefits of acquisitions; change in debt to total capital ratio that is lower or higher than we anticipated; the potential consequences of the New York Attorney General's investigation into our provider reimbursement practices; and the outcome of the divestiture of our individual SecureHorizons Medicare Advantage HMO plans in Clark and Nye Counties (Nevada) and the integration of the operations of the Company and Sierra Health Services, Inc. after the divestiture.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
(April 22, 2008)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) today announced that David S. Wichmann has assumed the position of executive vice president of UnitedHealth Group and president of UnitedHealth Group Operations. He will be charged with optimizing business performance across UnitedHealth Group and within each of the market groups and business segments. Mr. Wichmann will report to Stephen J. Hemsley, president and chief executive officer of UnitedHealth Group, and the Board of Directors. In a separate press release today, the Company announced that Gail K. Boudreaux will join as executive vice president of UnitedHealth Group and president of the Commercial Markets Group, effective May 5, 2008, the position previously held by Mr. Wichmann.
Minneapolis
"Dave's contributions have been remarkable over the past decade and have prepared him to lead this operational charge to make UnitedHealth Group a stronger organization," said Mr. Hemsley. "Dave's leadership skills, his intimate knowledge of the Company, his understanding of the challenges we face in the marketplace and his strong operating skills make him the ideal person for this role. We look forward to working with Dave in his efforts to advance our commitment to our customers and enhance the performance of UnitedHealth Group for our shareholders."
Today's move is consistent with the Company's longstanding practice of developing and rotating executive talent throughout the organization to cultivate and maintain a deep and versatile leadership team at UnitedHealth Group.
In Mr. Wichmann's newly expanded role, he will be dedicated to driving the necessary change across UnitedHealth Group for improved performance at every level of the business. Mr. Wichmann's direct accountabilities and priorities will include:
 
 
 
 
 
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through seven operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, OptumHealth, Ingenix, and Prescription Solutions. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves approximately 70 million individuals nationwide.
 


