FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20080214163022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On February 13, 2008, the New York Attorney General announced that (1) he is conducting an industry-wide investigation into health insurers' provider reimbursement practices; (2) he has issued subpoenas to 16 health insurance companies in connection with such investigation, including UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company"); and (3) he intends to file suit against the Company and four of its subsidiaries. No lawsuit has been filed against the Company and its subsidiaries as of February 14, 2008. A copy of the Company's press release in response to these matters is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1 Press Release dated February 13, 2008
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

(For Immediate Release)
(February 13, 2008)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) today issued the following response to the announcement made by the office of the New York Attorney General:
MINNEAPOLIS
We are in the midst of on-going discussions with the Attorney General's office and we will continue to cooperate fully. UnitedHealth Group recognizes the excellent health care delivered to patients by the physicians of New York and is committed to fair and appropriate payment for physicians, the state's other health care providers and consumers. The company also believes in delivering high quality and dependable database tools.
The reference data is rigorously developed, geographically specific, comprehensive and organized using a transparent methodology that is very common in the health care industry. We believe these reference tools add substantial value to the health care system by providing all participants  providers, payers and consumers  with a long-standing transparent, consistent, and neutral line of sight into the health care market, its costs and performance.
Health plans and other health care payers use these reference tools to independently negotiate their own reimbursement schedules, establish fees for out-of-network care, negotiate provider service contracts and review claims for their members and consumers.
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through seven operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, OptumHealth, Ingenix, and Prescription Solutions. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves approximately 70 million individuals nationwide.
About UnitedHealth Group


