FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20091023174047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective October 23, 2009, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") amended its equity award certificates listed in Item 9.01 pursuant to which executive officers of the Company may receive equity awards granted by the Compensation Committee under the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. The Compensation Committee amended the equity award certificates to implement a requirement for Section 16 officers to retain one-third of the net shares acquired upon the vesting or exercise of equity awards for a period of one year.
 
Effective October 23, 2009, the Board, upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, amended the Company's Bylaws. The Bylaws were amended to provide for a Lead Independent Director in the event the Chair of the Board does not qualify as an independent director. The Bylaws were also amended to expand the information required to be provided to the Company by a shareholder proposing business or making a director nomination and to clarify that such information is required to be provided in connection with a proposal or nomination at a special meeting. A summary of the material amendments to the Bylaws are as follows:
 
 
 
 
In addition to the material changes described above, the Bylaws were also amended to make certain other non-substantive changes.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 23, 2009
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
Section 1.01. . The registered office of the corporation in Minnesota shall be that set forth in the Restated Articles of Incorporation or in the most recent amendment of the Articles of Incorporation or resolution of the directors filed with the Secretary of State of Minnesota changing the registered office.
Registered Office
Section 1.02. . The corporation may have such other offices, within or without the State of Minnesota, as the directors shall, from time to time, determine.
Other Offices
Section 1.03. . The corporation shall have no seal.
Corporate Seal
Section 2.01. . Except as provided otherwise by Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 302A, meetings of the shareholders may be held at any place, within or without the State of Minnesota, or solely by remote communication (as defined in Section 301A.011(61) of the Minnesota Statutes) ("Remote Communication"), as may from time to time be designated by the directors and, in the absence of such designation, shall be held at the registered office of the corporation in the State of Minnesota. The directors shall designate the time of day for each meeting and, in the absence of such designation, every meeting of shareholders shall be held at ten o'clock a.m.
Place and Time of Meetings
Section 2.02. .
Regular Meetings
 
 
Section 2.03. .
Special Meetings
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2.04. . The holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any regular or special meeting. In case a quorum shall not be present at a meeting, those present may adjourn the meeting to such day as they shall, by majority vote, agree upon, and a notice of such adjournment and the date and time at which such meeting shall be reconvened shall be mailed to each shareholder entitled to vote at least 5 days before such adjourned meeting. If a quorum is present, a meeting may be adjourned from time to time without notice other than announcement at the meeting. At adjourned meetings at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed. If a quorum is present, the shareholders may continue to transact business until adjournment notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough shareholders to leave less than a quorum.
Quorum, Adjourned Meetings
Section 2.05. . At each meeting of the shareholders, every shareholder having the right to vote shall be entitled to vote either in person or by proxy. Each shareholder, unless the Articles of Incorporation or statute provide otherwise, shall have one vote for each share having voting power registered in such shareholder's name on the books of the corporation. Jointly owned shares may be voted by any joint owner unless the corporation receives written notice from any one of them denying the authority of that person to vote those shares. Upon the demand of any shareholder, the vote upon any question before the meeting shall be by ballot. All questions shall be decided by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares present and entitled to vote on that item of business, except if otherwise required by statute, the Articles of the Incorporation, or these Bylaws.
Voting
Section 2.06. . The Board of Directors may fix a time, not exceeding 60 days preceding the date of any meeting of shareholders, as a record date for the determination of the shareholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, such meeting, notwithstanding any transfer of shares on the books of the corporation after any record date so fixed. The Board of Directors may close the books of the corporation against the transfer of shares during the whole or any part of such period. If the Board of Directors fails to fix a record date for determination of the shareholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, any meeting of shareholders, the record date shall be the 20th day preceding the date of such meeting.
Closing of Books
Section 2.07. . There shall be mailed to each shareholder, shown by the books of the corporation to be a holder of record of voting shares, a notice setting out the time and place or information regarding Remote Communication, if applicable, of each regular and each special meeting, except where the meeting is an adjourned meeting and the date, time and place of the meeting were announced at the time of adjournment, which notice shall be mailed at least five days prior thereto; except that notice of a meeting at which an agreement of merger or exchange is to be considered shall be mailed to all shareholders of record, whether entitled to vote or not, at least fourteen days prior thereto. Every notice of any special meeting called pursuant to Section 2.03 hereof shall state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting has been called, and the business transacted at all special meetings shall be confined to the purpose stated in the notice. Notice may be given by means of mail, or if consented to by the shareholder in a manner that complies with the federal securities laws, facsimile, electronic mail, electronic posting, or any other form of electronic communication to which the shareholder has consented.
Notice of Meetings
 
Section 2.08. . Notice of any regular or special meeting may be waived by any shareholder either before, at or after such meeting orally, by "authenticated" "electronic communication" (as defined under Sections 302A.011(62) and 302A.011(60), respectively, of the Minnesota Statutes), or in a writing signed by such shareholder or a representative entitled to vote the shares of such shareholder. A shareholder, by his attendance at any meeting of shareholders or by his participation by means of Remote Communication, shall be deemed to have waived notice of such meeting, except where the shareholder objects at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of business because the item may not lawfully be considered at that meeting and does not participate in the consideration of the item at that meeting.
Waiver of Notice
Section 2.09. . Any action which might be taken at a meeting of the shareholders may be taken without a meeting if done in writing and signed, or consented to by "authenticated" "electronic communication" (as defined under Sections 302A.011(62) and 302A.011(60), respectively, of the Minnesota Statutes) by all of the shareholders entitled to vote on that action.
Written Action
Section 2.10. . For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder (other than the nomination of a person for election as a director, which is governed by Section 3.03 of Article III of these Bylaws), a shareholder must, in addition to any other applicable requirements, provide written notice of any proposal to be submitted at an annual meeting. To be timely, such notice must be delivered to the Secretary to the Board so as to be received at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the 90
Business to be Brought Before the Annual Meeting
th
day, nor earlier than the close of business on the 120
th
day, prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within 30 days before or after such anniversary date, such notice must be so received not later than the close of business on the 10
th
day following the day on which such notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the meeting was made, whichever occurs first. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the public disclosure thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice described above. To be in proper form, each such notice shall set forth as to each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting: (a) a complete description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (b) the name and address of the shareholder proposing such business and the name and address of any Associated Person of such shareholder, (c) the class or series and number of all shares of capital stock of the corporation which are held of record or beneficially owned (directly or indirectly) by, or represented by proxy in favor of, such shareholder or any Associated Person of such shareholder, as of the record date for the meeting (if such date shall then have been made publicly available), as of the date of such notice, and as of each of 60 days prior to the date of such notice and one year prior to the date of such notice, (d) a description of any Derivative Positions to which such shareholder or any Associated Person of such shareholder is a party, (e) a description of any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding or relationship between such shareholder or any Associated Person of such shareholder and any other person or entity or combination thereof (including their names and addresses) in connection with the proposal of
 
such business by such shareholder or pursuant to which such shareholder or any Associated Person of such shareholder has a right to vote any stock of the corporation, (f) a description of any proportionate interest in the stock of the corporation or Derivative Positions with respect to the corporation held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such shareholder or any Associated Person of such shareholder is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in such a general partner, (g) a representation that the shareholder is a holder of record or beneficial owner of shares of the corporation entitled to vote at the annual meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business, (h) a description of any interest of the shareholder or any Associated Person of such shareholder in such business, including any anticipated benefit therefrom, (i) such other information as would be required to be included in a proxy statement or other filings required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission if, with respect to any such item of business, such shareholder were a participant in a solicitation subject to the Proxy Rules, and (j) a representation that the shareholder will update and supplement the notice to the Secretary to the Board of the corporation in writing, so that the notice is true and correct, in all material respects, as of the record date for the meeting (which update must be received by the Secretary to the Board not less than 5 business days after the record date). In addition, if any of the foregoing information changes in any material respect from the date the notice is received through the date of the meeting, the shareholder shall promptly supplement such information to reflect such change by notice in writing to the Secretary to the Board at the corporation's principal executive offices. In order to include information with respect to a shareholder proposal in the corporation's proxy statement and form of proxy for a shareholder's meeting, shareholders must provide notice as required by, and otherwise comply with the requirements of, the Proxy Rules in addition to the requirements of this Section 2.10. Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary (other than the nomination of a person for election as a director, which is governed by Section 3.03 of Article III of these Bylaws), no business shall be considered properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder unless it is brought in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.10. The presiding officer of the meeting or the Secretary to the Board, may, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedures, and if such officer should so determine, such officer shall so declare to the meeting and that business shall be disregarded. If the officer of the corporation presiding at an annual meeting of the shareholders determines that any business was not brought in accordance with the foregoing procedures, such business shall be void and shall be disregarded for all purposes.
Section 2.11. . To the extent authorized by the Board, a shareholder, not physically present in person or by means of proxy, may, by any means of Remote Communication, participate in a meeting of shareholders held at a designated place. Participation by a shareholder by that means constitutes presence at the meeting.
Remote Communication
Section 3.01. . The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors, except as otherwise permitted by statute.
General Powers
 
Section 3.02. . The Board of Directors shall consist of one or more members, and the number of directors may be increased or decreased from time to time by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors present at a duly held meeting at the time the action is taken or the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares present and entitled to vote on that item of business, considered for this purpose as one class. Except as otherwise provided by law or by these Bylaws, the directors of the corporation shall be elected at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders in each year. Each of the directors shall hold office until the expiration of his term, as specified herein, and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified, or until the earlier death, resignation, or disqualification of such director.
Number, Election and Term of Office
Section 3.03. .
Nomination of Director Candidates
 
 
 
 
Section 3.04. .
Determination of Contested Elections
 
 
 
Section 3.05. .
Chairman of the Board; Lead Independent Director
 
 
Section 3.06. . Meetings of the Board of Directors may be held from time to time at such time and place within or without the State of Minnesota or solely by Remote Communication as may be designated in the notice of such meeting.
Board Meetings
Section 3.07. . Meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board by giving at least twenty-four hours' notice, or by any other director by giving at least five days' notice, of the date, time and place or information regarding Remote Communication, if applicable, to each director in person or by mail, telephone, facsimile, electronic mail, electronic posting, or any other form of electronic communication.
Calling Meetings; Notice
Section 3.08. . Notice of any meeting of the Board of Directors may be waived by any director either before, at, or after such meeting orally or in a writing signed by such director. A director, by his attendance at any meeting of the Board of Directors, shall be deemed to have waived notice of such meeting, except where the director objects at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened and does not participate thereafter in the meeting.
Waiver of Notice
 
Section 3.09. . A majority of the directors holding office immediately prior to a meeting of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at such meeting.
Quorum
Section 3.10. . A director may give advance written or "authenticated" "electronic" (as defined under Sections 302A.011(62) and 302A.011(60), respectively, of the Minnesota Statutes) consent or opposition to a proposal to be acted on at a meeting of the Board of Directors. If such director is not present at the meeting, consent or opposition to a proposal does not constitute presence for purposes of determining the existence of a quorum, but consent or opposition shall be counted as a vote in favor of or against the proposal and shall be entered in the minutes or other record of action at the meeting, if the proposal acted on at the meeting is substantially the same or has substantially the same effect as the proposal to which the director has consented or objected.
Absent Directors
Section 3.11. . Any or all directors may participate in any meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any duly constituted committee thereof, by means of telephone conference or, if authorized by the Board, by such other means of Remote Communication through which the directors may simultaneously participate with each other during such meeting. For the purposes of establishing a quorum and taking any action at the meeting, such directors participating pursuant to this Section 3.11 shall be deemed present in person at the meeting.
Remote Communication
Section 3.12. . Vacancies in the Board of Directors of this corporation occurring by reason of death, resignation, removal or disqualification shall be filled for the unexpired term by a majority of the remaining directors of the Board although less than a quorum; newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the authorized number of directors by action of the Board of Directors as permitted by Section 3.02 may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors present at a duly held meeting at the time the action is taken.
Vacancies: Newly Created Directorships
Section 3.13. . Any or all of the directors may be removed from office at any time, with or without cause, in accordance with Section 302A.223 of the Minnesota Statutes.
Removal
Section 3.14. .
Committees
 
 
 
Section 3.15. . Any action which might be taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors, or any duly constituted committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if done in writing and signed or consented to by "authenticated" "electronic communication" (as defined under Sections 302A.011(62) and 302A.011(60), respectively, of the Minnesota Statutes) by all of the directors or committee members, unless the Articles provide for less than unanimous written action.
Written Action
Section 3.16. . Directors who are not salaried officers of this corporation shall receive such fixed sum per meeting attended or such fixed annual sum as shall be determined, from time to time, by resolution of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, provide that all directors shall receive their expenses, if any, of attendance at meetings of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving this corporation in any other capacity and receiving proper compensation therefor.
Compensation
Section 4.01. . The corporation shall have one or more natural persons exercising the functions of the offices of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. The Board of Directors may elect or appoint such other officers or agents as it deems necessary for the operation and management of the corporation, with such powers, rights, duties, and responsibilities as may be determined by the Board of Directors, including, without limitation, a President, one or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and such assistant officers or other officers as may from time to time be elected or appointed by the Board of Directors. Each such officer shall have the powers, rights, duties and responsibilities set forth in these Bylaws unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
Number and Designation
Section 4.02. . Unless provided otherwise by a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer: (a) shall have general active management of the business of the corporation; (b) shall, when present, preside at all meetings of the shareholders; (c) shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect; (d) shall sign and deliver in the name of the corporation any deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments pertaining to the business of the corporation, except in cases in which the authority to sign and deliver is required by law to be exercised by another person or is expressly delegated by these Bylaws or the Board of Directors to some other officer or agent of the corporation; and (e) shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned by the Board of Directors.
Chief Executive Officer
 
Section 4.03. . Unless provided otherwise by a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chief Financial Officer: (a) shall cause to be kept accurate financial records for the corporation, (b) shall cause to be deposited all monies, drafts, and checks in the name of and to the credit of the corporation in such banks and depositories as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time, (c) shall cause to be endorsed for deposit all notes, checks and drafts received by the corporation as ordered by the Board of Directors, making proper vouchers therefor, (d) shall cause to be disbursed corporate funds and shall cause to be issued checks and drafts in the name of the corporation, as ordered by the Board of Directors, (e) shall render to the Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors, whenever requested, an account of all the transactions as Chief Financial Officer and of the financial condition of the corporation, and (f) shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer from time to time.
Chief Financial Officer
Section 4.04. . Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the corporation. If an officer other than the President is designated Chief Executive Officer, the President shall perform such duties as may from time to time be assigned by the Board of Directors.
President
Section 4.05. . Each Vice President shall perform such duties as may be prescribed from time to time by these Bylaws or by the Board of Directors.
Vice President
Section 4.06. . Unless provided otherwise by a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the Secretary: (a) shall attend all meetings of the shareholders and Board of Directors, and shall record all the proceedings of such meetings in the minute book of the corporation, (b) shall give proper notice of meetings of shareholders and Board of Directors and other notices required by law or these Bylaws, and (c) shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned by the Board of Directors.
Secretary
Section 4.07. . The Treasurer shall perform such duties as may from time to time be assigned by the Chief Financial Officer or by the Board of Directors.
Treasurer
Section 4.08. . In addition to the foregoing authority and duties, all officers of the corporation shall respectively have such authority and perform such duties in the management of the business of the corporation as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. Unless prohibited by a resolution of the Board of Directors, an officer elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may, without specific approval of the Board of Directors, delegate some or all of the duties and powers of an office to other persons.
Authority and Duties
Section 4.09. . The Board of Directors may remove any officer from office at any time, with or without cause, by a resolution approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present. Such removal, however, shall be without prejudice to the contract rights of the person so removed. A vacancy in an office of the corporation by reason of death, resignation, removal, disqualification, or otherwise may, or in the case of a vacancy in the office of the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer shall, be filled for the unexpired term by the Board of Directors.
Removal and Vacancies
 
Section 4.10. . The officers of this corporation shall receive such compensation for their services as may be determined by or in accordance with resolutions of the Board of Directors or by one or more committees to the extent so authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Compensation
Section 5.01. . The corporation may issue stock either in certificated or uncertificated form. If shares are issued in uncertificated form, each shareholder shall be entitled upon written request to a stock certificate or certificates, representing and certifying the number and kind of full shares held, signed as provided in this Section 5.01. Certificates for shares of stock shall be in such form as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe. The certificates for such shares shall be numbered in the order in which they shall be issued and shall be signed, in the name of the corporation, by the Chief Executive Officer or the President and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or by such officers as the Board of Directors may designate. If the certificate is signed by a transfer agent or registrar, such signatures of the corporate officers may be by facsimile if authorized by the Board of Directors. A certificate representing shares of this corporation shall contain on its face the information required by Minnesota Statutes, Section 302A.417, Subd. 4. A certificate representing shares issued by this corporation, if it is authorized to issue shares of more than one class or series, shall set forth upon the face or back of the certificate, or shall state that the corporation will furnish to any shareholder upon request and without charge, a full statement of the designations, preferences, limitations, and relative rights of the shares of each class or series authorized to be issued so far as they have been determined, and the authority of the Board of Directors to determine relative rights and preferences of subsequent classes or series. Every certificate surrendered to the corporation for exchange or transfer shall be canceled, and no new certificate or certificates shall be issued in exchange for any existing certificate until such existing certificate shall have been so canceled, except in cases provided for in Section 5.04.
Certificates for Shares
Section 5.02. . The Board of Directors is authorized to cause to be issued shares of the corporation up to the full amount authorized by the Articles of Incorporation in such amounts as may be determined by the Board of Directors and as may be permitted by law. No shares shall be allotted except in consideration of cash or other property, tangible or intangible, received or to be received by the corporation under a written agreement, of services rendered or to be rendered to the corporation under a written agreement, or of an amount transferred from surplus to stated capital upon a share dividend. At the time of such allotment of shares, the Board of Directors making such allotments shall state, by resolution, their determination of the fair value to the corporation in monetary terms of any consideration other than cash for which shares are allotted.
Issuance of Shares
Section 5.03. . The shares of stock of the corporation shall be transferable on the books of the corporation by the holder thereof in person or by his or her
Transfer of Shares
 
attorney upon surrender for cancellation of a certificate or certificates for the same number of shares, or other evidence of ownership if no certificates shall have been issued, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, and with such proof of the validity of the signature as the corporation or its agents may reasonably require. The corporation may treat as the absolute owner of shares of the corporation, the person or persons in whose name shares are registered on the books of the corporation. The Board of Directors may appoint one or more transfer agents and registrars to maintain the share records of the corporation and to effect share transfers on its behalf.
Section 5.04. . Except as otherwise provided by Minnesota Statutes, Section 302A.419, any shareholder claiming a certificate for shares to be lost, stolen or destroyed shall make an affidavit of that fact in such form as the Board of Directors shall require and shall, if the Board of Directors so requires, give the corporation a bond of indemnity in form, in an amount, and with one or more sureties satisfactory to the Board of Directors, to indemnify the corporation against any claim which may be made against it on account of the reissue of such certificate, whereupon a new certificate may be issued in the same tenor and for the same number of shares as the one alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed.
Loss of Certificates
Section 6.01. . Subject to the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation, of these Bylaws, and of law, the Board of Directors may declare dividends whenever, and in such amounts as, in its opinion, are deemed advisable.
Dividends
Section 6.02. . Subject to any provisions of the Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may fix a date not exceeding 120 days preceding the date fixed for the payment of any dividend as the record date for the determination of the shareholders entitled to receive payment of the dividend and, in such case, only shareholders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled to receive payment of such dividend notwithstanding any transfer of shares on the books of the corporation after the record date. If no record date is fixed, the record date shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution authorizing the payment of such dividend.
Record Date
Section 7.01. . The Board of Directors of the corporation shall cause to be kept at its principal executive office, or at another place or places within the United States determined by the board:
Share Register
 
 
Section 7.02. . The Board of Directors shall cause to be kept at its principal executive office, or, if its principal executive office is not in Minnesota, shall make available at its registered office within ten days after receipt by an officer of the corporation of a written demand for them made by a shareholder or other person authorized by Minnesota Statutes Section 302A.461, originals or copies of:
Other Books and Records
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7.03. . The fiscal year of the corporation shall be determined by the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year
Section 8.01.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 9.01. The corporation shall indemnify such persons (and shall advance expenses of such persons), for such expenses and liabilities, in such manner, under such circumstances, and to such extent as required or permitted by Minnesota Statutes, Section 302A.521, as now enacted or hereafter amended.
Section 10.01. These Bylaws may be amended or altered by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors present at a duly held meeting provided that notice of such proposed amendment shall have been given in the notice given to the directors of such meeting. Such authority in the Board of Directors is subject to the power of the shareholders to change or repeal such Bylaws by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares present and entitled to vote at any regular or special meeting of shareholders called for such purpose, and the Board of Directors shall not make or alter any Bylaws fixing a quorum for meetings of shareholders, prescribing procedures for removing directors or filling vacancies in
 
the Board of Directors, or fixing the number of directors or their classifications, qualifications, or terms of office, except that the Board of Directors may adopt or amend any Bylaw to increase their number.
Section 11.01. . Unless otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer shall have full power and authority on behalf of the corporation (a) to attend any meeting of security holders of other corporations in which the corporation may hold securities and to vote such securities on behalf of this corporation, (b) to execute any proxy for such meeting on behalf of the corporation, or (c) to execute a written action in lieu of a meeting of such other corporation on behalf of this corporation. At such meeting, the Chief Executive officer shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and powers incident to the ownership of such securities that the corporation possesses. The Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may, from time to time, grant such power and authority to one or more other persons.
Voting Securities Held by the Corporation
Section 11.02. . Unless otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer shall have full power and authority on behalf of the corporation to purchase, sell, transfer or encumber any and all securities of any other corporation owned by the corporation, and may execute and deliver such documents as may be necessary to effectuate such purchase, sale, transfer or encumbrance. The Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may, from time to time, confer like powers upon any other person or persons.
Purchase and Sale of Securities
Section 12.01. Pursuant to the authority provided by Section 302A.673, Subd. 3(b)(2), of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act, this corporation elects not to be subject to Section 302A.673 of said Act.
 

Exhibit 10.1
Executive Grant
Grant Number:
 
THIS CERTIFIES THAT UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") has on the Grant Date specified above granted to
(the "Optionee") the option (the "Option") to purchase that number of shares of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (the "Common Stock"), indicated above (the "Option Shares"). The Option that this Award represents will expire on the Expiration Date, unless it is terminated prior to that time in accordance with this Award.
The Option Shares represented by this Award shall become exercisable as to []% of the Option Shares on each anniversary of the Grant Date, commencing with the first anniversary, unless this Option shall have terminated or the vesting shall have accelerated as provided in this Award. Once this Option has become exercisable for all or a portion of the Option Shares, it will remain exercisable for all or such portion of the Option Shares, as the case may be, until the Option expires or is terminated as provided in this Award.
        
By accepting this Option, the holder acknowledges that the holder of this Option will not have any of the rights of a shareholder with respect to the Option Shares until the holder has duly exercised the Option and paid the Exercise Price and applicable withholding taxes in accordance with this Award. The holder further acknowledges and agrees that the Company may deliver, by electronic mail, the use of the Internet or Company intranet web pages or otherwise, any information concerning the Company, this Option, the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), pursuant to which the Company granted this Option, and any information required by the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
This Option is subject to the further terms and conditions set forth below and to the terms of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon request. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Award, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.
1. . The Company does not intend that the Option shall be an Incentive Stock Option governed by the provisions of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Nonqualified Option
2. . The Option shall terminate on the Expiration Date. The Option shall terminate prior to such date if the Optionee ceases to be employed by the Company or any Affiliate, except that:
Termination of Option
(a) If the Optionee's employment terminates for any reason (voluntary or involuntary) other than (i) death or permanent long-term disability, or (ii) a termination of employment that results in severance or separation pay being paid to Optionee, and at the time of such termination Optionee is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below), then the Optionee may, at any time within the Exercise Period (as defined below), exercise the Option to the extent of the full number of Option Shares which were exercisable and which the Optionee was entitled to purchase under the Option on the date of the termination of his or her employment;
General:
(b) If the Optionee dies while employed by the Company or any Affiliate, or if the Optionee's employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated due to the Optionee's failure to return to work as the result of a permanent long-term disability which renders the Optionee incapable of performing his or her duties as determined under the provisions of the Company's long-term disability insurance program, then (i) all unvested Option Shares hereunder shall immediately vest, and (ii) the Optionee (or the Optionee's personal representatives, administrators or guardians, as applicable, or any person or persons to whom the Option is transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution) may (subject to earlier expiration on the Expiration Date) at any time within a period of five years after the Optionee's death or termination of employment due to the Optionee's failure to return to work as the result of a permanent long-term disability, or for such other longer period established at the discretion of the Committee, exercise the Option to the extent of the full number of Option Shares which are exercisable following such vesting;
Death or Permanent Long-Term Disability:
(c) If the Optionee is entitled to severance under the Company's severance pay plan as in effect on the date hereof and the Optionee is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below) at the time of termination of employment, then vesting of the Option shall continue for the period of such severance. If Optionee is entitled to severance under an employment agreement entered into with the Company, then vesting of the Option shall continue for the period of such severance that Optionee is entitled to receive as of the date hereof. If the Optionee is entitled to separation pay other than under the Company's severance pay plan or an employment agreement, then vesting of the Option shall continue for the lesser of (i) the period the Optionee would have received payments under the severance pay plan as in effect on the date hereof, had the Optionee been eligible for such payments; or (ii) the period of separation pay. In either case, should the Optionee be paid in a lump sum versus bi-weekly payments, the Option shall continue to vest for the time in which severance or separation pay would have been paid had it been paid bi-weekly;
Severance:
(d) . If the Optionee's employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated and at the time of termination is eligible for Retirement, then (i) vesting of the Option shall continue as if such termination of employment had not occurred and (ii) the Optionee may, at any time within the shorter of (1) the Expiration Date of the Option or (2) a period of five
Retirement
 
years after such termination of employment or for such other longer period established at the discretion of the Committee, exercise the Option to the extent of the full number of Option Shares which are exercisable and which the Optionee is entitled to purchase under the Option on the date of exercise of the Award; provided that the Award shall continue to be subject to "Forfeiture of Option and Shares" below; and
(e) For the purposes of this Option, "Exercise Period" shall mean the greater of: (i) a period of three months after the date of termination of the Optionee's employment; (ii) if Optionee receives severance or separation pay, a period of three months after vesting ceases as provided in (c), above; or (iii) such other longer period established at the discretion of the Committee. This Option shall in no event be exercisable after the Expiration Date.
For purposes of this Award, "Retirement" means the termination of employment of a Participant who is age 55 or older with at least ten years of Recognized Employment with the Company or any Affiliate other than by reason of (i) death or permanent long-term disability or (ii) Misconduct.
For purposes of this Award, "Recognized Employment" shall include only employment since the Optionee's most recent date of hire by the Company or any Affiliate, and shall not include employment with a company acquired by UnitedHealth Group or any Affiliate before the date of such acquisition.
For purposes of this Award, "Misconduct" shall mean an Optionee's (a) violation of, or failure to act upon or report known or suspected violations of, the Company's Principles of Ethics and Integrity, or (b) commission of any illegal, fraudulent, or dishonest act or gross negligent or intentional misrepresentation in connection with the Optionee's employment.
3. . This section sets forth circumstances under which the Optionee shall forfeit all or a portion of the Options, or be required to repay the Company for the value realized in respect of all or a portion of the Options.
Forfeiture of Option and Shares
(a) . If the Optionee violates any provision of the Restrictive Covenants in Section 4 of this Award, then (i) any unvested Options and (ii) any Options that vested within one year prior to the Optionee's termination of employment with the Company or any Affiliate or at any time after such termination of employment (the "Forfeited Options") and that have not been exercised shall be immediately cancelled and rendered null and void without any payment therefor. If any such Forfeited Options have been exercised prior to the Optionee's violation of the Restrictive Covenants, the Optionee shall be required to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company, upon demand, an amount in cash or Common Stock having a value equal to the amount described in clause (i) or (ii), depending on whether the Optionee still holds the Option Shares acquired upon exercise of the Forfeited Options; (i) to the extent that such Option Shares have been sold, the difference between the aggregate proceeds received from such sale of such Option Shares over the aggregate Exercise Price for such Option Shares, and (ii) to the extent that such Option Shares have not been sold at the time Company demand is made, the difference between the aggregate Fair Market Value of such Option Shares on the date the Forfeited Options were exercised over the aggregate Exercise Price with respect to such Option Shares.
Violation of Restrictive Covenants
 
(b) . If the Board determines that the Optionee has engaged in fraud that, in whole or in part, caused the need for a material restatement of the Company's consolidated financial statements, then any vested and unvested Options then held by the Optionee shall be immediately cancelled and rendered null and void without any payment therefor. In addition, for any Options that were exercised during the 12-month period following the first public issuance or filing with the Securities Exchange Commission (whichever occurs first) of the incorrect financial statements (the "Covered Options"), the Optionee shall be required to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company, upon demand, an amount in cash or Common Stock having a value equal to the amount described in clause (i) or (ii), depending on whether the Optionee still holds the Option Shares acquired upon exercise of the Covered Options; (i) to the extent that such Option Shares have been sold, the difference between the aggregate proceeds received from such sale of such Option Shares over the aggregate Exercise Price for such Option Shares, and (ii) to the extent that such Option Shares have not been sold at the time Company demand is made, the difference between the aggregate Fair Market Value of such Option Shares on the date the Covered Options were exercised over the aggregate Exercise Price with respect to such Option Shares.
Fraud
(c) . This section does not constitute the Company's exclusive remedy for the Optionee's violation of the Restrictive Covenants or commission of fraudulent conduct. The Company may seek any additional legal or equitable remedy, including injunctive relief, for any such violations. The provisions in this section are essential economic conditions to the Company's grant of Options to the Optionee. By receiving the grant of Options hereunder, the Optionee agrees that the Company may deduct from any amounts it owes the Optionee from time to time (such as wages or other compensation, deferred compensation credits, vacation pay, any severance or other payments owed following a termination of employment, as well as any other amounts owed to the Optionee by the Company) to the extent of any amounts the Optionee owes the Company under this section. The provisions of this section and any amounts repayable by the Optionee hereunder are intended to be in addition to any rights to repayment the Company may have under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable law.
In General
4. . In consideration of the terms of this Option and the Optionee's access to Confidential Information, the Optionee agrees to the Restrictive Covenants set forth below. For purposes of these Restrictive Covenants, the "Company" means UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and all of any Affiliate and other affiliates.
Restrictive Covenants
(a) . The Optionee will be given access to and provided with sensitive, confidential, proprietary and trade secret information ("Confidential Information") in the course of the Optionee's employment. Examples of Confidential Information include: inventions; new product or marketing plans; business strategies and plans; merger and acquisition targets; financial and pricing information; computer programs, source codes, models and databases; analytical models; customer lists and information; and supplier and vendor lists and information. The Optionee agrees not to disclose or use Confidential Information, either during or after the Optionee's employment with the Company, except as necessary to perform the Optionee's duties or as the Company may consent in writing.
Confidential Information
(b) . During the Optionee's employment and for the greater of two years after the termination of the Optionee's employment for any reason whatsoever, or the
Non-Solicitation
 
period of time for which the Option remains exercisable, the Optionee may not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for the Optionee or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:
 
 
 
 
(c) . During the Optionee's employment and for the greater of one year after the termination of the Optionee's employment for any reason whatsoever or the period of time for which the Option remains exercisable, the Optionee may not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for the Optionee or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:
Non-Competition
 
 
(d) Because the Company's business competes on a nationwide basis, the Participant's obligations under this "Restrictive Covenants" section shall apply on a nationwide basis anywhere in the United States.
(e) To the extent Participant and the Company agree at any time to enter into separate agreements containing restrictive covenants with different or inconsistent terms than those contained herein, Participant and the Company acknowledge and agree that such different or inconsistent terms shall not in any way affect or have relevance to the Restrictive Covenants contained herein.
 
By accepting this Option, the Optionee agrees that the provisions of this Restrictive Covenants section are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company.
5. . On the terms set forth herein, the Option may be exercised in whole or in part from time to time by delivering notice of exercise to the Company, accompanied by payment of the Exercise Price and any applicable withholding taxes (i) in cash, by wire transfer, certified check or bank cashier's check payable to the Company, (ii) by delivery of shares of Common Stock already owned by the Optionee or (iii) by delivery of a combination of cash and such shares; provided, that the Optionee shall not be entitled to tender shares of Common Stock pursuant to successive, substantially simultaneous exercises of options to purchase Common Stock. Any shares already owned by the Optionee referred to in the preceding sentence must have been owned by the Optionee for no less than six months prior to the date of exercise of the Option if such shares were acquired upon the exercise of another option or upon the vesting of restricted stock or restricted stock units. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award, the Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any shares of Common Stock upon exercise of any Option until the requirements of any federal or state securities laws, rules or regulations or other laws or rules (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable have been and continue to be satisfied (including an effective registration of the shares under federal and state securities laws).
Manner of Exercise
6. . This Option does not confer on the Optionee any right with respect to the continuance of any relationship with the Company or any Affiliate, nor will it interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate such relationship at any time.
No Guarantee of Employment
7. . During the Optionee's lifetime, only the Optionee can exercise the Option. The Optionee may not transfer the Option except by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined by the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act or the rules promulgated thereunder, to the extent provided in clause (b) under the section above entitled "Termination of Option." Any attempt to otherwise transfer the Option shall be void.
No Transfer
8. . If the Optionee is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 16a-1 issued thereunder, as such status is reasonably determined from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company (a "Section 16 Officer"), at any time that the Option is exercised in whole or in part and the Company has theretofore communicated the Optionee's status as a Section 16 Officer to the Optionee, the following special transfer restrictions apply to any shares of Common Stock acquired upon the exercise of the Option. One third (
Special Restriction on Transfer for Certain Optionees
 1
/
3
) of the net number of any shares of Common Stock acquired upon the exercise of the Option at a time when the Optionee is a Section 16 Officer (including any shares of Common Stock or other securities subject to the Option following any adjustment made pursuant to this Option or Section 7 of the Plan) must be retained, and may not be sold or otherwise transferred, for a period of at least one year following the date the Option is exercised. For purposes of this Option, the "net number of any shares of Common Stock acquired" shall mean the number of shares of Common Stock received with respect to the particular exercise after reduction for any shares of Common Stock withheld by or tendered to the Company, or sold on the market, to cover the Exercise Price of the Option and/or to cover any federal, state, local or other payroll,
 
withholding, income or other applicable tax withholding required in connection with the exercise of the Option. The restrictions of this Section 8 are in addition to, and not in lieu of, the restrictions imposed under other Company policies and applicable laws.
9. . In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Shares or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affecting the Shares would be reasonably likely to result in the diminution or enlargement of any of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Option (including, without limitation, the benefits or potential benefits of provisions relating to the term, vesting or exercisability of the Option), the Committee shall, in such manner as it shall deem equitable or appropriate in order to prevent such diminution or enlargement of any such benefits or potential benefits, adjust any or all of (i) the number and type of shares (or other securities or other property) subject to the Option and (ii) the exercise price with respect to the Option; provided, however, that the number of shares covered by the Option shall always be a whole number. Without limiting the foregoing, if any capital reorganization or reclassification of the capital stock of the Company, or consolidation or merger of the Company with another entity, or the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets to another entity, shall be effected in such a way that holders of the Company's Common Stock shall be entitled to receive stock, securities, cash or other assets with respect to or in exchange for such shares, the Optionee shall have the right to purchase and receive upon the basis and upon the terms and conditions specified in this Award and in lieu of the shares of Common Stock of the Company immediately theretofore purchasable and receivable upon the exercise of the Option, with appropriate adjustments to prevent diminution or enlargement of benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Option, such shares of stock, other securities, cash or other assets as would have been issued or delivered to the Optionee if the Optionee had exercised the Option and had received such shares of Common Stock prior to such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale. The Company shall not effect any such reorganization, consolidation, merger or sale unless prior to the consummation thereof the successor entity (if other than the Company) resulting from such reorganization, consolidation or merger or the entity purchasing such assets shall assume by written instrument the obligation to deliver to the Optionee such shares of stock, securities, cash or other assets as, in accordance with the foregoing provisions, the Optionee may be entitled to purchase or receive.
Adjustments to Option Shares
10. . Notwithstanding the other vesting provisions set forth herein, but subject to the other terms and conditions set forth herein, the Option shall become fully vested and exercisable on the effective date of a Change in Control. For purposes of this Option, a "Change in Control" shall mean the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets or any merger, reorganization, or exchange or tender offer which, in each case, will result in a change in the power to elect 50% or more of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company.
Change in Control
11. . If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this Award is invalid or overbroad, the Optionee agrees that the court or arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other provisions of this Award should be unaffected.
Narrowed Enforcement and Severability
 
12. . The Optionee agrees that (a) legal remedies (money damages) for any breach of the Restrictive Covenants in Section 4 of this Award will be inadequate, (b) the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable harm from any such breach, and (c) the Company will be entitled to injunctive relief from a court in addition to any legal remedies the Company may seek in arbitration.
Injunctive Relief
13. . The Restrictive Covenants and provisions regarding the forfeiture of Options and shares in this Award shall survive the termination of the Option.
Survival
14. . An original record of this Award and all the terms thereof is held on file by the Company. To the extent there is any conflict between the terms contained in this Award and the terms contained in the original held by the Company, the terms of the original held by the Company shall control. Neither the Plan nor the Option shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Affiliate and Optionee or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Option, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.
Other
15. . The validity, construction and effect of this Option and any rules and regulations relating to the Option and this Award shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota (without regard to its conflict of laws principles).
Governing Law
THIS AWARD REPRESENTS AN OPTION TO PURCHASE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK AND DOES NOT CONSTITUTE OR REPRESENT SHARES OF COMMON STOCK
 

Exhibit 10.2
Award Number:
                    
 
THIS CERTIFIES THAT UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") has on the Award Date specified above granted to
("Participant") an award (the "Award") of that number of shares (the "Shares") of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (the "Common Stock"), indicated above in the box labeled "Number of Shares," subject to certain restrictions and on the terms and conditions contained in this Award and the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). A copy of the Plan is available upon request. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Award, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.
1. . With respect to the Shares, on and after the Award Date and until the date or dates on which the Shares vest and the restrictions with respect to the Shares lapse in accordance with Section 2, 3 or 4, Participant shall have all of the rights of a shareholder of the Common Stock, including the right to vote the Shares and the right to receive dividends thereon, unless and until the Shares are forfeited pursuant to Section 4 or 8. The rights of Participant with respect to the Shares shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date or dates on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Shares lapse, in accordance with Section 2, 3 or 4. Subject to the restrictions and terms of this Award, after the Shares vest pursuant to Section 2, 3 or 4, Participant shall have all of the rights of a shareholder of the Common Stock with respect to the Shares (including, without limitation, the right to vote the Shares and to receive cash dividends).
Rights of the Participant with Respect to the Shares
2. . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Award, [%] of the Shares shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Shares shall lapse, on each of the [] and [] anniversaries of the Award Date if Participant remains continuously employed by the Company or any Affiliate or continues to serve on the Board of Directors of the Company until the respective vesting dates.
Vesting
            
            
            
3. . Notwithstanding the other vesting provisions contained in Section 2, but subject to the other terms and conditions set forth herein, upon the effective date of a Change in Control, all of the Shares shall become immediately and unconditionally vested and exercisable, and the restrictions with respect to all of the Shares shall lapse. For purposes of this Award, a "Change in Control" shall mean the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets or any merger, reorganization, or exchange or tender offer which, in each case, will result in a change in the power to elect 50% or more of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company.
Early Vesting Upon Change in Control
4. .
Forfeiture or Early Vesting Upon Termination of Employment
(a) . If, prior to vesting of the Shares pursuant to Section 2 or 3, Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate, or ceases to serve on the Board of Directors of the Company, for any reason (voluntary or involuntary) other than (i) death or permanent long-term disability or (ii) a termination of employment that results in severance or separation pay being paid to Participant, and at the time of such termination Participant is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below), then Participant's rights to all of the unvested Shares shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited.
Termination of Employment Generally
(b) . If Participant dies while employed by the Company or any Affiliate, or if Participant's employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated due to Participant's failure to return to work as the result of a permanent long-term disability that renders Participant incapable of performing his or her duties as determined under the provisions of the Company's long-term disability insurance program applicable to Participant, then all unvested Shares shall become immediately vested, and the restrictions with respect to all of the Shares shall lapse, as of the date of such long-term disability or death. No transfer by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution of any Shares that vest by reason of Participant's death shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Committee shall have been furnished with written notice of such transfer and a copy of the will or such other evidence as the committee of the Board of Directors administering the Plan (the "Committee") may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer.
Death or Permanent Long-Term Disability
(c) . If Participant is entitled to severance under the Company's severance pay plan as in effect on the date hereof and the Participant is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below) at the time of termination of employment, then the Shares shall continue to vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Shares shall continue to lapse, for the period of such severance. If Participant is entitled to severance under an employment agreement entered into with the Company, then the Shares will continue to vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Shares shall continue to lapse for the period of such severance that Participant is eligible to receive as of the date hereof. If Participant is entitled to separation pay other than under the Company's severance pay plan or an employment agreement, then vesting of the Shares, and lapsing of their restrictions, shall continue for the lesser of (i) the period Participant would have received payments under the severance pay plan as in effect
Severance
 
on the date hereof, had Participant been eligible for such payments; or (ii) the period of separation pay. In either case, should Participant be paid in a lump sum versus bi-weekly payments, the Shares shall continue to vest for the time in which severance or separation pay would have been paid had it been paid bi-weekly.
(d) . If the Participant's employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated and at the time of termination is eligible for Retirement, then the vesting of the Shares shall continue as if such termination of employment had not occurred, subject to "Forfeiture of Shares" below; provided the Committee may accelerate the lapse of restrictions on such Shares to such an earlier date as the Committee may establish in its discretion.
Retirement
(e) For purposes of this Award, "Retirement" means the termination of employment of a Participant who is age 55 or older with at least ten years of Recognized Employment with the Company or any Affiliate other than by reason of (i) death or permanent long-term disability or (ii) Misconduct.
For purposes of this Award, "Recognized Employment" shall include only employment since the Participant's most recent date of hire by the Company or any Affiliate, and shall not include employment with a company acquired by UnitedHealth Group or any Affiliate before the date of such acquisition.
For purposes of this Award, "Misconduct" shall mean a Participant's (a) violation of, or failure to act upon or report known or suspected violations of, the Company's Principles of Ethics and Integrity, or (b) commission of any illegal, fraudulent, or dishonest act or gross negligent or intentional misrepresentation in connection with the Participant's employment.
5. . Until the Shares vest pursuant to Section 2, 3 or 4, the Shares may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of or encumbered, and no attempt to transfer unvested Shares, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest the transferee with any interest or right in or with respect to the Shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Participant may, in the manner established by the Committee, designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries to exercise the rights of Participant and receive any property distributable with respect to the Shares upon the death of Participant.
Restriction on Transfer
6. . If Participant is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 16a-1 issued thereunder, as such status is reasonably determined from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company (a "Section 16 Officer"), at any time that Shares vest and the Company has theretofore communicated Participant's status as a Section 16 Officer to Participant, the following special transfer restrictions apply to Participant's Award. One third (
Special Restriction on Transfer for Certain Participants
 1
/
3
) of the net number of any Shares that vest pursuant to Section 2, 3 or 4 at a time when Participant is a Section 16 Officer (including any shares of Common Stock or other securities into which such Shares may be converted or exchanged as a result of any adjustment made pursuant to this Award or Section 7 of the Plan) must be retained, and may not be sold or otherwise transferred, for a period of at least one year following the applicable vesting date. For purposes of this Award, the "net number of any Shares that vest" shall mean the number of Shares becoming vested after reduction for any shares of Common Stock withheld by or tendered
 
to the Company, or sold on the market, to cover any federal, state, local or other payroll, withholding, income or other applicable tax withholding required in connection with the vesting of Shares. The restrictions of this Section 6 are in addition to, and not in lieu of, the restrictions imposed under other Company policies and applicable laws.
7. . In consideration of the terms of this Award and Participant's access to Confidential Information, Participant agrees to the Restrictive Covenants set forth below. For purposes of these Restrictive Covenants, the "Company" means UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and all of its subsidiaries and other affiliates.
Restrictive Covenants
(a) . Participant will be given access to and provided with sensitive, confidential, proprietary and trade secret information ("Confidential Information") in the course of Participant's employment. Examples of Confidential Information include: inventions; new product or marketing plans; business strategies and plans; merger and acquisition targets; financial and pricing information; computer programs, source codes, models and databases; analytical models; customer lists and information; and supplier and vendor lists and information. Participant agrees not to disclose or use Confidential Information, either during or after Participant's employment with the Company, except as necessary to perform Participant's duties or as the Company may consent in writing.
Confidential Information
(b) . During Participant's employment and for two years after the later of (i) the termination of Participant's employment for any reason whatsoever, or (ii) the last scheduled vesting date under Section 4, Participant may not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:
Non-Solicitation
 
 
 
 
(c) . During Participant's employment and for one year after the later of (i) the termination of Participant's employment for any reason whatsoever, or (ii)
Non-Competition
 
the last scheduled vesting date under Section 4, Participant may not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:
 
 
(d) Because the Company's business competes on a nationwide basis, the Participant's obligations under this "Restrictive Covenants" section shall apply on a nationwide basis anywhere in the United States.
(e) To the extent Participant and the Company agree at any time to enter into separate agreements containing restrictive covenants with different or inconsistent terms than those contained herein, Participant and the Company acknowledge and agree that such different or inconsistent terms shall not in any way affect or have relevance to the Restrictive Covenants contained herein.
By accepting this Restricted Stock Award, Participant agrees that the provisions of this Restrictive Covenants section are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company.
8. . This section sets forth circumstances under which Participant shall forfeit all or a portion of the Shares, or be required to repay the Company for the value realized in respect of all or a portion of the Shares.
Forfeiture of Shares
(a) . If Participant violates any provision of the Restrictive Covenants set forth in Section 7, then any unvested Shares shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited without any payment therefor. In addition, for any Shares that vested within one year prior to Participant's termination of employment with the Company or any Affiliate or at any time after such termination of employment, Participant shall be required to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company, upon demand, an amount in cash or Common Stock having a value equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of such Shares on the date the Shares became vested.
Violation of Restrictive Covenants
(b) . If the Board determines that Participant has engaged in fraud that, in whole or in part, caused the need for a material restatement of the Company's consolidated financial statements, then any unvested Shares shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited without any payment therefor. In addition, for any Shares that became vested during the 12-month period following the first public issuance or filing with the Securities Exchange Commission (whichever occurs first) of the incorrect financial statements, Participant shall be required to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company, upon demand, an amount in cash or Common Stock having a value equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of such Shares on the date the Shares became vested.
Fraud
 
(c) . This section does not constitute the Company's exclusive remedy for Participant's violation of the Restrictive Covenants or commission of fraudulent conduct. The Company may seek any additional legal or equitable remedy, including injunctive relief, for any such violations. The provisions in this section are essential economic conditions to the Company's grant of Shares to the Participant. By receiving the grant of Shares hereunder, Participant agrees that the Company may deduct from any amounts it owes Participant from time to time (such as wages or other compensation, deferred compensation credits, vacation pay, any severance or other payments owed following a termination of employment, as well as any other amounts owed to Participant by the Company) to the extent of any amounts Participant owes the Company under this section. The provisions of this section and any amounts repayable by Participant hereunder are intended to be in addition to any rights to repayment the Company may have under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable law.
In General
9. .
Issuance of Shares
(a) Effective as of the Award Date, the Company shall cause the Shares to be issued in book-entry form, registered in Participant's name. The Shares shall be subject to an appropriate stop-transfer order.
(b) After any of the Shares vest pursuant to Section 2, 3 or 4 and following payment of the applicable withholding taxes pursuant to Section 11, the Company promptly shall cause the stop-transfer order to be removed with respect to such vested Shares.
10. .
Adjustments to Shares
(a) In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Common Stock or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affecting the Common Stock would be reasonably likely to result in the diminution or enlargement of any of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Award (including, without limitation, the benefits or potential benefits of provisions relating to the vesting of the Shares), the Committee shall, in such manner as it shall deem equitable or appropriate in order to prevent such diminution or enlargement of any such benefits or potential benefits, make adjustments to the Award, including adjustments in the number and type of Shares Participant would have received; , that the number of shares covered by the Award shall always be a whole number.
provided, however
(b) Any additional shares of Common Stock, any other securities of the Company and any other property (except for cash dividends or other cash distributions) distributed with respect to the Shares prior to the date or dates the Shares vest shall be subject to the same restrictions, terms and conditions as the Shares and shall be promptly deposited with the Secretary of the Company or a custodian designated by the Secretary.
 
(c) Any cash dividends or other cash distributions payable with respect to the Shares shall be distributed at the same time cash dividends or other cash distributions are distributed to shareholders of the Company generally.
11. .
Tax Matters
(a) In order to comply with all applicable federal, state and local tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state and local payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are the sole and absolute responsibility of Participant, are withheld or collected from Participant.
(b) On each applicable vesting date, Participant will be deemed to have elected to satisfy Participant's minimum required federal, state, and local payroll, withholding, income or other tax withholding obligations arising from the receipt of, or the lapse of restrictions relating to, the Shares, by having the Company withhold a portion of the Shares otherwise to be delivered having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes (but only to the extent of the minimum amount required to be withheld under applicable laws or regulations), unless, on or before the applicable vesting date, Participant notifies the Company that Participant has elected, and makes appropriate arrangements, to deliver cash, check (bank check, certified check or personal check) or money order payable to the Company.
12. .
Miscellaneous
(a) This Award does not confer on Participant any right with respect to the continuance of any relationship with the Company or any Affiliate, nor will it interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate such relationship at any time.
(b) Neither the Plan nor this Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Affiliate and Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.
(c) The Company shall not be required to deliver any Shares until the requirements of any federal or state securities laws, rules or regulations or other laws or rules (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable are satisfied.
(d) An original record of this Award and all the terms hereof, executed by the Company, is held on file by the Company. To the extent there is any conflict between the terms contained in this Award and the terms contained in the original held by the Company, the terms of the original held by the Company shall control.
(e) If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this Award is invalid or overbroad, Participant agrees that the court or arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other provisions of this Award should be unaffected.
 
(f) Participant agrees that (i) legal remedies (money damages) for any breach of the Restrictive Covenants in Section 7 will be inadequate, (ii) the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable harm from any such breach, and (iii) the Company will be entitled to injunctive relief from a court in addition to any legal remedies the Company may seek in arbitration.
(g) The Restrictive Covenants and provisions regarding the forfeiture of Shares in this Award shall survive forfeiture of the Shares.
(h) The validity, construction and effect of this Award and any rules and regulations relating to this Award shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota (without regard to its conflict of laws principles).
 

Exhibit 10.3
Award Number:
 
THIS CERTIFIES THAT UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") has on the Award Date specified above granted to
("Participant") an award (the "Award") to receive that number of restricted stock units (the "Restricted Stock Units") indicated above in the box labeled "Number of Units," each Restricted Stock Unit representing the right to receive one share of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (the "Common Stock"), subject to certain restrictions and on the terms and conditions contained in this Award and the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). A copy of the Plan is available upon request. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Award, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.
1. .
Rights of the Participant with Respect to the Restricted Stock Units
(a) . The Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Award do not and shall not entitle Participant to any rights of a shareholder of Common Stock. The rights of Participant with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 2, 3 or 4.
No Shareholder Rights
(b) . No shares of Common Stock shall be issued to Participant prior to the date on which the Restricted Stock Units vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 2, 3 or 4. Neither this Section 1(b) nor any action taken pursuant to or in accordance with this Section 1(b) shall be construed to create a trust of any kind. After any Restricted Stock Units vest pursuant to Section 2, 3 or 4, the Company shall promptly cause to be issued shares of Common Stock in book-entry form, registered in Participant's name or in the name of Participant's legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be, in payment of such vested whole Restricted Stock Units, but in any event, within the period ending on March 15
Conversion of Restricted Stock Units; Issuance of Common Stock
th
of the year following the year in which
the vesting event occurs (which payment schedule is intended to comply with the "short-term deferral" exemption from the application of Section 409A of the Code), unless such payment is deferred in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Company's non-qualified compensation deferral plans. The value of any fractional Restricted Stock Unit shall be paid in cash at the time shares of Common Stock are delivered to Participant in payment of the Restricted Stock Units.
2. . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Award, % of the Restricted Stock Units shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse, on each of the anniversaries of the Award Date if Participant remains continuously employed by the Company or continues to serve on the Board of Directors of the Company until the respective vesting dates.
Vesting
        
                                        
3. . Notwithstanding the other vesting provisions contained in Section 2, but subject to the other terms and conditions set forth herein, upon the effective date of a Change in Control, all of the Restricted Stock Units shall become immediately and unconditionally vested and exercisable, and the restrictions with respect to all of the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse. For purposes of this Award, a "Change in Control" shall mean the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets or any merger, reorganization, or exchange or tender offer which, in each case, will result in a change in the power to elect 50% or more of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company.
Early Vesting Upon Change in Control
4. .
Termination of Employment
(a) . If, prior to vesting of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 2 or 3, Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate, or ceases to serve on the Board of Directors of the Company, for any reason (voluntary or involuntary) other than (i) death or permanent long-term disability, or (ii) a termination that results in severance or separation pay being paid to Participant, and at the time of such termination Participant is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below), then Participant's rights to all of the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited on the date of termination.
Termination of Employment Generally
(b) . If Participant dies while employed by the Company or any Affiliate, or if Participant's employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated due to Participant's failure to return to work as the result of a permanent long-term disability which renders Participant incapable of performing his or her duties as determined under the provisions of the Company's long-term disability insurance program applicable to Participant, then all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall become immediately vested, and the restrictions with respect to all of the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse, as of the date of such death or employment termination.
Death or Permanent Long-Term Disability
(c) . If Participant is entitled to severance under the Company's severance pay plan as in effect on the date hereof and the Participant is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below) at the time of termination of employment, then the Restricted Stock Units shall continue to vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall continue to lapse, for the period of such severance that Participant is eligible to receive. If Participant is entitled to severance under an employment agreement entered into with the
Severance
 
Company, then vesting of the Restricted Stock Units, and lapsing of their restrictions, shall continue for the period of such severance that Participant is entitled to receive as of the date hereof. If Participant is entitled to separation pay other than under the Company's severance pay plan or an employment agreement, then vesting of the Restricted Stock Units, and lapsing of their restrictions, shall continue for the lesser of (i) the period Participant would have received payments under the severance pay plan as in effect on the date hereof, had Participant been eligible for such payments or (ii) the period of separation pay. In any case, should Participant be paid in a lump sum versus bi-weekly payments, the Restricted Stock Units shall continue to vest for the period of time in which severance or separation pay would have been paid had it been paid bi-weekly. The rest of this Section 4(c) to the contrary notwithstanding, if any period of severance or separation pay described in Sections 4(c)(i), (ii) or (iii) is of a duration that would have the effect of causing any number of Restricted Stock Units to vest, and the restrictions with respect thereto to lapse, such that the underlying shares of Common Stock would be issued on a date that is after March 15
th
(the "Acceleration Date") of the year following the calendar year in which the termination of employment occurs, then that number of Restricted Stock Units will automatically vest and the restrictions with respect thereto shall lapse within such time to ensure that the underlying shares of Common Stock will be issued to Participant on or prior to the Acceleration Date.
(d) . If the Participant's employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated and at the time of termination is eligible for Retirement, then the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units shall continue as if such termination of employment had not occurred, subject to provisions set out in the section entitled "Forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units and Shares of Common Stock" below; provided the Committee may accelerate the lapse of restrictions on such Restricted Stock Units to such an earlier date as the Committee may establish in its discretion.
Retirement
(e) For purposes of this Award, "Retirement" means the termination of employment of a Participant who is age 55 or older with at least ten years of Recognized Employment with the Company or any Affiliate other than by reason of (i) death or permanent long-term disability or (ii) Misconduct.
For purposes of this Award, "Recognized Employment" shall include only employment since the Participant's most recent date of hire by the Company or any Affiliate, and shall not include employment with a company acquired by UnitedHealth Group or any Affiliate before the date of such acquisition.
For purposes of this Award, "Misconduct" shall mean a Participant's (a) violation of, or failure to act upon or report known or suspected violations of, the Company's Principles of Ethics and Integrity, or (b) commission of any illegal, fraudulent, or dishonest act or gross negligent or intentional misrepresentation in connection with the Participant's employment.
5. . Participant may not transfer the Restricted Stock Units except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined by the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act or the rules promulgated thereunder. Any attempt to otherwise transfer the Restricted Stock Units shall be void.
Restriction on Transfer
 
6. . If Participant is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 16a-1 issued thereunder, as such status is reasonably determined from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company (a "Section 16 Officer"), at any time that shares of Common Stock are issued upon the vesting of Restricted Stock Units and the Company has theretofore communicated Participant's status as a Section 16 Officer to Participant, the following special transfer restrictions apply to Participant's Award. One third (
Special Restriction on Transfer for Certain Participants
 1
/
3
) of the net number of any shares of Common Stock issued to Participant upon the vesting of Restricted Stock Units at a time when Participant is a Section 16 Officer (including any shares of Common Stock or other securities into which such shares may be converted or exchanged as a result of any adjustment made pursuant to this Award or Section 7 of the Plan) must be retained, and may not be sold or otherwise transferred, for a period of at least one year following the applicable vesting date. For purposes of this Award, the "net number of any shares of Common Stock issued" shall mean the number of shares issued upon vesting of Restricted Stock Units after reduction for any shares of Common Stock withheld by or tendered to the Company, or sold on the market, to cover any federal, state, local or other payroll, withholding, income or other applicable tax withholding required in connection with the issuance of the shares. The restrictions of this Section 6 are in addition to, and not in lieu of, the restrictions imposed under other Company policies and applicable laws.
7. . This section sets forth circumstances under which Participant shall forfeit all or a portion of the Restricted Stock Units, or be required to repay the Company for the value realized in respect of all or a portion of the Restricted Stock Units.
Forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units and Shares of Common Stock
(a) . If Participant violates any provision of the Restrictive Covenants set forth in Section 8 below, then any unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited without any payment therefor. In addition, for any Restricted Stock Units that vested within one year prior to Participant's termination of employment with the Company or any Affiliate or at any time after such termination of employment, the Participant shall be required, upon demand, to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company (including by forfeiting any deferred compensation credits in respect of such Restricted Stock Units under the Company's non-qualified compensation deferral plans) an amount having a value equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock underlying such Restricted Stock Units on the date the Restricted Stock Units became vested.
Violation of Restrictive Covenants
(b) . If the Board determines that Participant has engaged in fraud that, in whole or in part, caused the need for a material restatement of the Company's consolidated financial statements, then any Restricted Stock Units that have not yet been settled in shares of Common Stock (including any deferred compensation credits under the Company's non-qualified compensation deferral plans in respect of Restricted Stock Units that have previously become vested) shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited without any payment therefore. In addition, for any Restricted Stock Units that became vested during the 12-month period following the first public issuance or filing with the Securities Exchange Commission (whichever occurs first) of the incorrect financial statements, Participant shall be required, upon demand, to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company
Fraud
 
(including by forfeiting any deferred compensation credits in respect of such Restricted Stock Units under the Company's non-qualified compensation deferral plans) an amount having a value equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock underlying such Restricted Stock Units on the date the Restricted Stock Units became vested.
(c) . This section does not constitute the Company's exclusive remedy for Participant's violation of the Restrictive Covenants or commission of fraudulent conduct. The Company may seek any additional legal or equitable remedy, including injunctive relief, for any such violations. The provisions in this section are essential economic conditions to the Company's grant of Restricted Stock Units to Participant. By receiving the grant of Restricted Stock Units hereunder, Participant agrees that the Company may deduct from any amounts it owes Participant from time to time (such as wages or other compensation, deferred compensation credits, vacation pay, any severance or other payments owed following a termination of employment, as well as any other amounts owed to the Participant by the Company) to the extent of any amounts Participant owes the Company under this section. The provisions of this section and any amounts repayable by Participant hereunder are intended to be in addition to any rights to repayment the Company may have under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable law.
In General
8. . In consideration of the terms of this Award and Participant's access to Confidential Information, Participant agrees to the Restrictive Covenants set forth below. For purposes of the Restrictive Covenants, the "Company" means UnitedHealth Group and all of its subsidiaries and other affiliates.
Restrictive Covenants
(a) . Participant has or will be given access to and provided with sensitive, confidential, proprietary and/or trade secret information (collectively, "Confidential Information") in the course of Participant's employment. Examples of Confidential Information include inventions, new product or marketing plans, business strategies and plans, merger and acquisition targets, financial and pricing information, computer programs, source codes, models and data bases, analytical models, customer lists and information, and supplier and vendor lists and information. Participant agrees not to disclose or use Confidential Information, either during or after Participant's employment with the Company, except as necessary to perform Participant's duties or as the Company may consent in writing.
Confidential Information
(b) . During Participant's employment and for two years after the later of (i) the termination of Participant's employment for any reason whatsoever or (ii) the last scheduled vesting date under Section 4, Participant may not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:
Non-Solicitation
 
 
 
 
 
(c) .During Participant's employment and for one year after the later of (i) the termination of Participant's employment for any reason whatsoever or (ii) the last scheduled vesting date under Section 4, Participant may not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:
Non-Competition
 
 
(d) Because the Company's business competes on a nationwide basis, the Participant's obligations under this "Restrictive Covenants" section shall apply on a nationwide basis anywhere in the United States.
(e) To the extent Participant and the Company agree at any time to enter into separate agreements containing restrictive covenants with different or inconsistent terms than those contained herein, Participant and the Company acknowledge and agree that such different or inconsistent terms shall not in any way affect or have relevance to the Restrictive Covenants contained herein.
By accepting this Restricted Stock Unit Award, Participant agrees that the provisions of this Restrictive Covenants section are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company.
9. . In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Common Stock or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affecting the Common Stock would be
Adjustments to Restricted Stock Units
 
reasonably likely to result in the diminution or enlargement of any of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Award (including, without limitation, the benefits or potential benefits of provisions relating to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units), the Committee shall, in such manner as it shall deem equitable or appropriate in order to prevent such diminution or enlargement of any such benefits or potential benefits, make adjustments to the Award, including adjustments in the number and type of shares of Common Stock Participant would have received upon vesting of the Restricted Stock Units; , , that the number of shares into which the Restricted Stock Units may be converted shall always be a whole number.
provided
however
10. .
Tax Matters
(a) In order to comply with all applicable federal, state and local tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state and local payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are the sole and absolute responsibility of Participant, are withheld or collected from Participant.
(b) On each applicable vesting date, Participant will be deemed to have elected to satisfy Participant's minimum required federal, state, and local payroll, withholding, income or other tax withholding obligations arising from the receipt of shares or the lapse of restrictions relating to the Restricted Stock Units, by having the Company withhold a portion of the shares of Common Stock otherwise to be delivered having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes (but only to the extent of the minimum amount required to be withheld under applicable laws or regulations), unless, on or before the applicable vesting date, Participant notifies the Company that Participant has elected, and makes appropriate arrangements, to deliver cash, check (bank check, certified check or personal check) or money order payable to the Company.
11. .
Miscellaneous
(a) This Award does not confer on Participant any right with respect to the continuance of any relationship with the Company or any Affiliate, nor will it interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate such relationship at any time.
(b) Neither the Plan nor this Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Affiliate and Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.
(c) The Company shall not be required to deliver any shares of Common Stock upon the vesting of any Restricted Stock Units until the requirements of any federal or state securities laws, rules or regulations or other laws or rules (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable have been and continue to be satisfied (including an effective registration of the shares under federal and state securities laws).
(d) An original record of this Award and all the terms hereof, executed by the Company, is held on file by the Company. To the extent there is any conflict between the terms contained in this Award and the terms contained in the original held by the Company, the terms of the original held by the Company shall control.
 
(e) If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this Award is invalid or overbroad, Participant agrees that the court or arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other provisions of this Award should be unaffected.
(f) Participant agrees that (i) legal remedies (money damages) for any breach of the Restrictive Covenants in Section 8 will be inadequate, (ii) the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable harm from any such breach, and (iii) the Company will be entitled to injunctive relief from a court in addition to any legal remedies the Company may seek in arbitration.
(g) The Restrictive Covenants in this Award and the provisions regarding the forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units and shares of Common Stock shall survive termination of the Restricted Stock Units.
(h) The validity, construction and effect of this Award and any rules and regulations relating to this Award shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota (without regard to its conflict of law principles).
 

Exhibit 10.4
Award Number:
 
THIS CERTIFIES THAT UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") has on the Award Date specified above granted to
("Participant") stock appreciation rights (the "Stock Appreciation Rights") with respect to the number of shares of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (the "Common Stock"), indicated above in the box labeled "Number of Shares" (the "Shares"). The initial value of each Share is indicated above in the box labeled "Grant Price." This Award represents the right to receive shares of Common Stock (the "Issued Shares") only when, and with respect to the number of Shares as to which, the Award has vested (the "Vested Shares"). This Award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth below and in the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). A copy of the Plan is available upon request. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Award, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.
1. .
Rights of the Participant with Respect to the Stock Appreciation Rights
(a) . The Stock Appreciation Rights granted pursuant to this Award do not and shall not entitle Participant to any rights of a shareholder of Common Stock prior to the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Rights and the receipt of the Issued Shares in accordance with this Award. The rights of Participant with respect to this Award shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date on which such rights become vested in accordance with Section 2, 3 or 4 hereof.
No Shareholder Rights
(b) . No shares of Common Stock shall be issued to Participant prior to the date on which the Stock Appreciation Rights are vested in accordance with Sections 2, 3, or 4, and exercised in accordance with Section 5. Upon exercise of the Stock Appreciation Rights, Participant shall be entitled to receive a number of Issued Shares for each Vested Share with respect to which the Stock
Exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights; Issuance of Common Stock
Appreciation Rights are exercised equal to (i) the excess of the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of exercise over the Grant Price, divided by (ii) the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of exercise. The Issued Shares shall be issued in book-entry form, registered in Participant's name or in the name of Participant's legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be. The Company will not deliver any fractional share of Common Stock but will pay, in lieu thereof, cash equal to the Fair Market Value of such fractional share.
2. . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Award, the Stock Appreciation Rights shall vest and may be exercised by Participant with respect to % of the Shares on each of the anniversaries of the Award Date if Participant remains continuously employed by the Company or any Affiliate until the respective vesting dates.
Vesting
        
                                        
3. . Notwithstanding the other vesting provisions contained in Section 2, but subject to the other terms and conditions set forth herein, upon the effective date of a Change in Control, the Stock Appreciation Rights with respect to all of the Shares shall become immediately and unconditionally vested and exercisable. For purposes of this Award, a "Change in Control" shall mean the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets or any merger, reorganization, or exchange or tender offer which, in each case, will result in a change in the power to elect 50% or more of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company.
Early Vesting Upon Change in Control
4. .
Forfeiture or Early Vesting Upon Termination of Employment
(a) . If Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate for any reason (voluntary or involuntary) other than (i) death or permanent long-term disability, or (ii) a termination that results in severance or separation pay being paid to Participant, and at the time of such termination Participant is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below), then Participant may at any time within the Exercise Period (as defined below) exercise the Stock Appreciation Rights with respect to the Vested Shares on the date of the termination. Participant's Stock Appreciation Rights with respect to any unvested Shares shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited on the date of termination.
Termination of Employment Generally
(b) . If Participant dies while employed by the Company or any Affiliate, or if Participant's employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated due to Participant's failure to return to work as the result of a permanent long-term disability which renders Participant incapable of performing his or her duties as determined under the provisions of the Company's long-term disability insurance program applicable to Participant, then (i) the Stock Appreciation Rights with respect to any unvested Shares shall immediately vest, and (ii) Participant (or Participant's personal representatives, administrators or guardians, as applicable, or any person or persons to whom the Stock Appreciation Rights are transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution) may, subject to Section 8, at any time within a period of five years after the Participant's death or termination of employment due to the Participant's failure to return to work as the result of a permanent long-term disability, or for such other longer period established at the discretion of the Committee, exercise the Stock Appreciation Rights to the extent of the full number of Vested Shares.
Death or Permanent Long-Term Disability
 
(c) . If Participant is entitled to severance under the Company's severance pay plan as in effect on the date hereof and the Participant is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below) at the time of termination of employment, then the Stock Appreciation Rights shall continue to vest for the period of such severance that Participant is eligible to receive. If Participant is entitled to severance under an employment agreement entered into with the Company, then vesting of the Stock Appreciation Rights shall continue for the period of such severance that Participant is entitled to receive as of the date hereof. If Participant is entitled to separation pay other than under the Company's severance pay plan or an employment agreement, then vesting of the Stock Appreciation Rights shall continue for the lesser of (i) the period Participant would have received payments under the severance pay plan as in effect on the date hereof, had Participant been eligible for such payments or (ii) the period of separation pay. In either case, should Participant be paid in a lump sum versus bi-weekly payments, the Stock Appreciation Rights shall continue to vest for the period of time in which severance or separation pay would have been paid had it been paid bi-weekly.
Severance
(d) . If the Participant's employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated and at the time of termination is eligible for Retirement, then (i) vesting of the Stock Appreciation Rights shall continue as if such termination of employment had not occurred and (ii) the Participant may, at any time within the shorter of (1) the Expiration Date of the Award or (2) a period of five years after such termination of employment by reason of the Participant's Retirement or for such other longer period established at the discretion of the Committee, exercise the Stock Appreciation Rights to the extent of the full number of Vested Shares which are exercisable and which the Participant is entitled to purchase under the Stock Appreciation Rights on the date of exercise of the Award; provided that the Award shall continue to be subject to "Forfeiture of Stock Appreciation Rights and Shares" below.
Retirement
(e) For purposes of this Award, "Exercise Period" means the greater of (i) a period of three months after the date of termination of Participant's employment, (ii) if Participant is entitled to severance or separation pay, a period of three months after vesting ceases as provided in (c) above, or (iii) such other longer period established at the discretion of the Committee. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Stock Appreciation Rights shall in no event be exercisable to any extent or by any Person after the Expiration Date.
For purposes of this Award, "Retirement" means the termination of employment of a Participant who is age 55 or older with at least ten years of Recognized Employment with the Company or any Affiliate other than by reason of (i) death or permanent long-term disability or (ii) Misconduct.
For purposes of this Award, "Recognized Employment" shall include only employment since the Participant's most recent date of hire by the Company or any Affiliate, and shall not include employment with a company acquired by UnitedHealth Group or any Affiliate before the date of such acquisition.
For purposes of this Award, "Misconduct" shall mean a Participant's (a) violation of, or failure to act upon or report known or suspected violations of, the Company's Principles of Ethics and Integrity, or (b) commission of any illegal, fraudulent, or dishonest act or gross negligent or intentional misrepresentation in connection with the Participant's employment.
 
5. . The Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised with respect to Vested Shares by delivery to the Company of a written notice which shall state that Participant elects to exercise the Stock Appreciation Rights as to the number of Vested Shares specified in the notice as of the date specified in the notice.
Method of Exercise
6. . During Participant's lifetime, the Stock Appreciation Rights shall be exercisable only by Participant. Participant may not transfer the Stock Appreciation Rights except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined by the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act or the rules promulgated thereunder. Any attempt to otherwise transfer the Stock Appreciation Rights shall be void.
Restriction on Transfer
7. . If Participant is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 16a-1 issued thereunder, as such status is reasonably determined from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company (a "Section 16 Officer"), at any time that the Stock Appreciation Rights are exercised in whole or in part and the Company has theretofore communicated Participant's status as a Section 16 Officer to Participant, the following special transfer restrictions apply to any shares of Common Stock acquired upon the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Rights. One third (
Special Restriction on Transfer for Certain Participants
 1
/
3
) of the net number of any shares of Common Stock acquired upon the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Rights at a time when Participant is a Section 16 Officer (including any shares of Common Stock or other securities subject to the Stock Appreciation Rights following any adjustment made pursuant to this Award or Section 7 of the Plan) must be retained, and may not be sold or otherwise transferred, for a period of at least one year following the date the Stock Appreciation Rights are exercised. For purposes of this Award, the "net number of any shares of Common Stock issued" shall mean the number of Issued Shares received with respect to a particular exercise pursuant to Section 1(b) after reduction for any shares of Common Stock withheld by or tendered to the Company, or sold on the market, to cover any federal, state, local or other payroll, withholding, income or other applicable tax withholding required in connection with the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Rights. The restrictions of this Section 7 are in addition to, and not in lieu of, the restrictions imposed under other Company policies and applicable laws.
8. . The Stock Appreciation Rights granted pursuant to this Award shall terminate on the earlier to occur of (a) the date indicated above in the box labeled "Expiration Date" or (b) as provided in Section 4 above.
Termination
9. . This section sets forth circumstances under which Participant shall forfeit all or a portion of the Stock Appreciation Rights, or be required to repay the Company for the value realized in respect of all or a portion of the Stock Appreciation Rights.
Forfeiture of Stock Appreciation Rights and Shares
(a) . If Participant violates any provision of the Restrictive Covenants in Section 10, then (i) any unvested Stock Appreciation Rights and (ii) any Stock Appreciation Rights that vested within one year prior to Participant's termination
Violation of Restrictive Covenants
 
of employment with the Company or any Affiliate or at any time after such termination of employment (the "Forfeited SARs") and that have not been exercised shall be immediately cancelled and rendered null and void without any payment therefor. If any such Forfeited SARs have been exercised prior to Participant's violation of the Restrictive Covenants, Participant shall be required to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company, upon demand, an amount in cash or Common Stock having a value equal to the amount described in clause (i) or (ii), depending on whether the Participant still holds the Shares received upon exercise of the Forfeited SARs; (i) to the extent that such Shares have been sold, the aggregate proceeds received from such sale of Shares, and (ii) to the extent that such Shares have not been sold at the time Company demand is made, the aggregate Fair Market Value of such Shares on the date the Forfeited SARs were exercised.
(b) . If the Board determines that Participant has engaged in fraud that, in whole or in part, caused the need for a material restatement of the Company's consolidated financial statements, then any vested and unvested Stock Appreciation Rights then held by the Participant shall be immediately cancelled and rendered null and void without any payment therefor. In addition, for any Stock Appreciation Rights that were exercised during the 12-month period following the first public issuance or filing with the Securities Exchange Commission (whichever occurs first) of the incorrect financial statements (the "Covered SARs"), the Participant shall be required to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company, upon demand, an amount in cash or Common Stock having a value equal to the amount described in clause (i) or (ii), depending on whether the Participant still holds the Shares received upon exercise of the Covered SARs; (i) to the extent that such Shares have been sold, the aggregate proceeds received from such sale of Shares, and (ii) to the extent that such Shares have not been sold at the time Company demand is made, the aggregate Fair Market Value of such Shares on the date the Covered SARs were exercised.
Fraud
(c) . This section does not constitute the Company's exclusive remedy for Participant's violation of the Restrictive Covenants or commission of fraudulent conduct. The Company may seek any additional legal or equitable remedy, including injunctive relief, for any such violations. The provisions in this section are essential economic conditions to the Company's grant of Stock Appreciation Rights to Participant. By receiving the grant of Stock Appreciation Rights hereunder, Participant agrees that the Company may deduct from any amounts it owes Participant from time to time (such as wages or other compensation, deferred compensation credits, vacation pay, any severance or other payments owed following a termination of employment, as well as any other amounts owed to the Participant by the Company) to the extent of any amounts Participant owes the Company under this section. The provisions of this section and any amounts repayable by Participant hereunder are intended to be in addition to any rights to repayment the Company may have under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable law.
In General
10. . In consideration of the terms of this Award and Participant's access to Confidential Information, Participant agrees to the Restrictive Covenants set forth below. For purposes of the Restrictive Covenants, the "Company" means UnitedHealth Group and all of its subsidiaries and other affiliates.
Restrictive Covenants
 
(a) . Participant has or will be given access to and provided with sensitive, confidential, proprietary and/or trade secret information (collectively, "Confidential Information") in the course of Participant's employment. Examples of Confidential Information include inventions, new product or marketing plans, business strategies and plans, merger and acquisition targets, financial and pricing information, computer programs, source codes, models and data bases, analytical models, customer lists and information, and supplier and vendor lists and information. Participant agrees not to disclose or use Confidential Information, either during or after Participant's employment with the Company, except as necessary to perform Participant's duties or as the Company may consent in writing.
Confidential Information
(b) During Participant's employment and for the greater of two years after the termination of Participant's employment for any reason whatsoever or the period of time during which the Stock Appreciation Rights remain exercisable, Participant may not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:
Non-Solicitation.
 
 
 
 
(c) .During Participant's employment and for the greater of one year after the termination of Participant's employment for any reason whatsoever or the period of time during which the which the Stock Appreciation Rights remain exercisable, Participant may not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:
Non-Competition
 
 
(d) Because the Company's business competes on a nationwide basis, the Participant's obligations under this "Restrictive Covenants" section shall apply on a nationwide basis anywhere in the United States.
(e) To the extent Participant and the Company agree at any time to enter into separate agreements containing restrictive covenants with different or inconsistent terms than those contained herein, Participant and the Company acknowledge and agree that such different or inconsistent terms shall not in any way affect or have relevance to the Restrictive Covenants contained herein.
By accepting this Stock Appreciation Right, Participant agrees that the provisions of this Restrictive Covenants section are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company.
11. . In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Common Stock or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affecting the Common Stock would be reasonably likely to result in the diminution or enlargement of any of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Award (including, without limitation, the benefits or potential benefits of provisions relating to the term, vesting or exercisability of the Stock Appreciation Rights), the Committee shall, in such manner as it shall deem equitable or appropriate in order to prevent such diminution or enlargement of any such benefits or potential benefits, make adjustments to the Award, including adjustments in the number and type of Shares subject to the Stock Appreciation Rights;,, that the number of shares of Common Stock into which the Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised shall always be a whole number.
Adjustments to Stock Appreciation Rights
provided
however
12. .
Tax Matters
(a) In order to comply with all applicable federal, state and local tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state and local payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are the sole and absolute responsibility of Participant, are withheld or collected from Participant.
(b) Upon each exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights hereunder, Participant will be deemed to have elected to satisfy Participant's minimum required federal, state, and local payroll, withholding, income or other tax withholding obligations arising from the exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights or the receipt of Issued Shares by having the Company withhold a portion of the Issued Shares otherwise to be delivered having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes (but only to the extent of the minimum amount required to be withheld under applicable laws or regulations), unless, on or before the date of exercise, Participant notifies the Company that Participant has elected, and makes appropriate arrangements, to deliver cash, check (bank check, certified check or personal check) or money order payable to the Company.
 
13. .
Miscellaneous
(a) This Award does not confer on Participant any right with respect to the continuance of any relationship with the Company or any Affiliate, nor will it interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate such relationship at any time.
(b) Neither the Plan nor this Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Affiliate and Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.
(c) The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any shares of Common Stock upon exercise of any Stock Appreciation Rights until the requirements of any federal or state securities laws, rules or regulations or other laws or rules (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable have been and continue to be satisfied (including an effective registration of the shares under federal and state security laws).
(d) An original record of this Award and all the terms hereof, executed by the Company, is held on file by the Company. To the extent there is any conflict between the terms contained in this Award and the terms contained in the original held by the Company, the terms of the original held by the Company shall control.
(e) If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this Award is invalid or overbroad, Participant agrees that the court or arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other provisions of this Award should be unaffected.
(f) Participant agrees that (i) legal remedies (money damages) for any breach of the Restrictive Covenants in Section 10 will be inadequate, (ii) the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable harm from any such breach, and (iii) the Company will be entitled to injunctive relief from a court in addition to any legal remedies the Company may seek in arbitration.
(g) The Restrictive Covenants and the provisions regarding forfeiture of the Stock Appreciation Rights and Shares in this Award shall survive termination of the Stock Appreciation Rights.
(h) The validity, construction and effect of this Award and any rules and regulations relating to this Award shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota (without regard to its conflict of law principles).
 

Exhibit 10.5
Award Number:
                        
 
THIS CERTIFIES THAT UnitedHealth Group Incorporated has on the Award Date specified above granted to
("Participant") an award (the "Award") to be eligible to receive a number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock units (the "Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units"), the target number of which is indicated above in the box labeled "Target Number of Performance-Based Units," each Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit representing the right to receive one share of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (the "Common Stock"), subject to certain restrictions and on the terms and conditions contained in this Award and the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). A copy of the Plan is available upon request. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Award, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan. This Award is intended to qualify as "qualified performance-based compensation" as described in Section 162(m)(4) of the Code.
1. .
Rights of the Participant with Respect to the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units
(a) . The Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Award do not and shall not entitle Participant to any rights of a shareholder of Common Stock. The rights of Participant with respect to the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 2, 3 or 4.
No Shareholder Rights
(b) . No shares of Common Stock shall be issued to Participant prior to the date on which the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units vest, and the
Conversion of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units; Issuance of Common Stock
restrictions with respect to the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 2, 3 or 4. Neither this Section 1(b) nor any action taken pursuant to or in accordance with this Section 1(b) shall be construed to create a trust of any kind. After any Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units vest pursuant to Section 2, 3 or 4, the Company shall promptly cause to be issued shares of Common Stock in book-entry form, registered in Participant's name or in the name of Participant's legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be, in payment of such vested whole Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units, but in any event, within the period ending on March 15
th
of the year following the year in which the vesting event occurs (which payment schedule is intended to comply with the "short-term deferral" exemption from the application of Section 409A of the Code), unless such payment is deferred in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Company's non-qualified compensation deferral plans. The value of any fractional Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit shall be paid in cash at the time shares of Common Stock are delivered to Participant in payment of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units.
2. . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Award, including without limitation the terms set forth in Attachment 1, the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall vest and the restrictions with respect to the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall lapse (i) if Participant has remained continuously employed with the Company or any Affiliate from the Award Date through and including the end of the Performance Period, and (ii) if and to the extent the Performance Vesting Criteria described in Attachment 1 have been achieved during the Performance Period. Regardless of whether Participant meets the continuous employment or service criterion described in subpart (i) of this Section 2, if and to the extent the Performance Vesting Criteria have not been achieved, the Participant's rights to the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited on that date. The Committee will determine in its sole discretion and certify in accordance with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code the extent, if any, to which the Performance Vesting Criteria have been met, and it will retain sole discretion to reduce the number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that would otherwise vest as a result of the performance measured against the Performance Vesting Criteria. The Committee may not increase the number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that may vest as a result of the performance as measured against the Performance Vesting Criteria. Any vesting that may occur pursuant to this Section 2 will be effective on the date on which the Committee has certified the extent to which the Performance Vesting Criteria in subpart (ii) of this Section 2 were satisfied.
Vesting
3. . Notwithstanding the other vesting provisions contained in Section 2, but subject to the other terms and conditions set forth herein, upon the effective date of a Change in Control, then the Target Number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units described in this Award will become immediately and unconditionally vested, and the restrictions with respect thereto shall lapse. For purposes of this Award, a "Change in Control" shall mean the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets or any merger, reorganization, or exchange or tender offer which, in each case, will result in a change in the power to elect 50% or more of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company.
Early Vesting Upon Change in Control
 
4. .
Termination of Employment
(a) . Subject to the provisions of this Section 4, if, prior to vesting of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 2 or 3, Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate, for any reason (voluntary or involuntary), then Participant's rights to all of the unvested Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited on the date of termination.
Termination of Employment Generally
(b) . If Participant dies while employed by the Company or any Affiliate, or if Participant's employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated due to Participant's failure to return to work as the result of a permanent long-term disability which renders Participant incapable of performing his or her duties as determined under the provisions of the Company's long-term disability program applicable to Participant, then following the end of the Performance Period, if and to the extent the Committee, in accordance with Section 2 above, determines that some number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units will vest and the restrictions with respect thereto will lapse, Participant will vest in a pro rata number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units, and the restrictions with respect thereto will lapse. Such pro rationing shall be based on the number of full months of the Performance Period that Participant was employed prior to the date of death or termination.
Death or Permanent Long-Term Disability
(c) . If Participant's employment ends and in connection with that separation from employment the Company pays the Participant severance benefits pursuant to an employment agreement with Participant that is in effect on the date of this Award or pursuant to any Company severance policy, plan or program in effect on the date of termination, then following the end of the Performance Period, if and to the extent the Committee, in accordance with Section 2 above, determines that some number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units will vest and the restrictions with respect thereto will lapse, Participant will vest in a pro rata number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units, and the restrictions with respect thereto will lapse. Such pro rationing shall be based on the number of full months of the Performance Period that Participant was employed prior to the date of termination.
Severance
5. . Participant may not transfer the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined by the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act or the rules promulgated thereunder. Any attempt to otherwise transfer the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall be void.
Restriction on Transfer
6. . If Participant is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 16a-1 issued thereunder, as such status is reasonably determined from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company (a "Section 16 Officer"), at any time that shares of Common Stock are issued upon vesting of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units and the Company has theretofore communicated Participant's
Special Restriction on Transfer for Certain Participants
 
status as a Section 16 Officer to Participant, the following special transfer restrictions apply to Participant's Award. One third (
 1
/
3
) of the net number of any shares of Common Stock issued to Participant upon vesting of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units at a time when Participant is a Section 16 Officer (including any shares of Common Stock or other securities into which such shares may be converted or exchanged as a result of any adjustment made pursuant to this Award or Section 7 of the Plan) must be retained, and may not be sold or otherwise transferred, for a period of at least one year following the issuance date. For purposes of this Award, the "net number of any shares of Common Stock issued" shall mean the number of shares issued with respect to the Award after reduction for any shares of Common Stock withheld by or tendered to the Company, or sold on the market, to cover any federal, state, local or other payroll, withholding, income or other applicable tax withholding required in connection with the issuance of the shares. The restrictions of this Section 6 are in addition to, and not in lieu of, the restrictions imposed under other Company policies and applicable laws.
7. . This section sets forth circumstances under which Participant shall forfeit all or a portion of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units, or be required to repay the Company for the value realized in respect of all or a portion of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units.
Forfeiture of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units and Shares of Common Stock
(a) . If Participant violates any provision of the Restrictive Covenants set forth in Section 8 below, then any unvested Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited without any payment therefor. In addition, for any Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that did vest, whether before or after Participant's employment terminated, the Participant shall be required, upon demand, to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company (including by forfeiting any deferred compensation credits in respect of such Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units under the Company's non-qualified compensation deferral plans) an amount having a value equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock underlying such Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units on the date the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units became vested.
Violation of Restrictive Covenants
(b) . If the Committee determines that: (i) the Participant has engaged in fraud or Misconduct that, in whole or in part, caused the need for a material restatement of the Company's consolidated financial statements, (ii) the Performance Vesting Criteria were met was based, in whole or in part, on achievement of financial results that were restated in connection with the restatement of the Company's consolidated financial statements, and (iii) the number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units in which Participant vested would have been less if that number had been based on the restated consolidated financial statements, then any Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that have not yet been settled in shares of Common Stock (including any deferred compensation credits under the Company's non-qualified compensation deferral plans in respect of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that have previously become vested) shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited without any payment therefore. In addition, for any Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that did
Fraud or Misconduct
 
vest, Participant shall be required, upon demand, to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company (including by forfeiting any deferred compensation credits in respect of such Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units under the Company's non-qualified compensation deferral plans) an amount having a value equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock underlying such Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units on the date the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units became vested. For the avoidance of doubt, a Participant shall be required to repay the full amount of the aggregate Fair Market Value of any such Common Stock, and not just the amount by which the amount of the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Common Stock underlying the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that vested exceeded the amount of the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Common Stock underlying the number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that would have vested based on the corrected and restated financial results. For purposes of this Section 7(b), "Misconduct" shall mean a Participant's (a) violation of, or failure to act upon or report known or suspected violations of, the Company's Principles of Ethics and Integrity, or (b) commission of any illegal, fraudulent, or dishonest act or gross negligent or intentional misrepresentation in connection with the Participant's employment.
(c) . This section does not constitute the Company's exclusive remedy for Participant's violation of the Restrictive Covenants or commission of fraud or Misconduct. The Company may seek any additional legal or equitable remedy, including injunctive relief, for any such violations. The provisions in this section are essential economic conditions to the Company's grant of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units to Participant. By receiving the grant of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units hereunder, Participant agrees that the Company may deduct from any amounts it owes Participant from time to time (such as wages or other compensation, deferred compensation credits, vacation/PTO pay, any severance or other payments owed following a termination of employment, as well as any other amounts owed to the Participant by the Company) to the extent of any amounts Participant owes the Company under this section. The provisions of this section and any amounts repayable by Participant hereunder are intended to be in addition to any rights to repayment the Company may have under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable law.
In General
8. . In consideration of the terms of this Award and Participant's access to Confidential Information, Participant agrees to the Restrictive Covenants set forth below. For purposes of the Restrictive Covenants, the "Company" means UnitedHealth Group and all of its Affiliates.
Restrictive Covenants
(a) . Participant has or will be given access to and provided with sensitive, confidential, proprietary and/or trade secret information (collectively, "Confidential Information") in the course of Participant's employment. Examples of Confidential Information include inventions, new product or marketing plans, business strategies and plans, merger and acquisition targets, financial and pricing information, computer programs, source codes, models and data bases, analytical models, customer lists and information, and supplier and vendor lists and information. Participant agrees not to disclose or use Confidential
Confidential Information
 
Information, either during or after Participant's employment with the Company, except as necessary to perform Participant's duties or as the Company may consent in writing.
(b) . During Participant's employment and for two years after the later of (i) the termination of Participant's employment for any reason whatsoever, or (ii) the date on which any number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units vests under Sections 2, 3 or 4, Participant may not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:
Non-Solicitation
 
 
 
 
(c) .During Participant's employment and for one year after the later of (i) the termination of Participant's employment for any reason whatsoever, or (ii) the date on which any number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units vests under Sections 2, 3 or 4, Participant may not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:
Non-Competition
 
 
 
(d) Because the Company's business competes on a nationwide basis, the Participant's obligations under this "Restrictive Covenants" section shall apply on a nationwide basis anywhere in the United States.
(e) To the extent Participant and the Company agree at any time to enter into separate agreements containing restrictive covenants with different or inconsistent terms than those contained herein, Participant and the Company acknowledge and agree that such different or inconsistent terms shall not in any way affect or have relevance to the Restrictive Covenants contained herein.
By accepting this Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units Award, Participant agrees that the provisions of this Restrictive Covenants section are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company.
9. . In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Common Stock or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affecting the Common Stock would be reasonably likely to result in the diminution or enlargement of any of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Award (including, without limitation, the benefits or potential benefits of provisions relating to the vesting of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units), the Committee shall, in such manner as it shall deem equitable or appropriate in order to prevent such diminution or enlargement of any such benefits or potential benefits, make adjustments to the Award, including adjustments in the number and type of shares of Common Stock Participant would have received upon vesting of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units; , , that the number of shares into which the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units may be converted shall always be a whole number.
Adjustments to Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units
provided
however
10. .
Tax Matters
(a) In order to comply with all applicable federal or state income tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal or state payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are the sole and absolute responsibility of Participant, are withheld or collected from Participant.
(b) On any pertinent vesting date described in this Award, Participant will be deemed to have elected to satisfy Participant's minimum required federal, state, and local payroll, withholding, income or other tax withholding obligations arising from the receipt of shares or the lapse of restrictions relating to the Performance-based Restricted Stock Units, by having the Company withhold a portion of the shares of Common Stock otherwise to be delivered having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes (but only to the extent of the minimum amount required to be withheld under applicable laws or regulations), unless, on or before the applicable vesting date, Participant notifies the Company that Participant has elected, and makes appropriate arrangements, to deliver cash, check (bank check, certified check or personal check) or money order payable to the Company.
 
11. .
Miscellaneous
(a) This Award does not confer on Participant any right with respect to the continuance of any relationship with the Company or any Affiliate, nor will it interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate such relationship at any time.
(b) Neither the Plan nor this Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.
(c) The Company shall not be required to deliver any shares of Common Stock upon the vesting of any Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units until the requirements of any federal or state securities laws, rules or regulations or other laws or rules (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable have been and continue to be satisfied (including an effective registration of the shares under federal and state securities laws).
(d) An original record of this Award and all the terms hereof, executed by the Company, is held on file by the Company. To the extent there is any conflict between the terms contained in this Award and the terms contained in the original held by the Company, the terms of the original held by the Company shall control.
(e) If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this Award certificate is invalid or overbroad, Participant agrees that the court or arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other provisions of this Award certificate should be unaffected.
(f) Participant agrees that (i) legal remedies (money damages) for any breach of the Restrictive Covenants in Section 8 will be inadequate, (ii) the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable harm from any such breach, and (iii) the Company will be entitled to injunctive relief from a court in addition to any legal remedies the Company may seek in arbitration.
(g) The Restrictive Covenants in Section 8 and the provisions regarding the forfeiture of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units and shares of Common Stock shall survive termination of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units.
(h) The validity, construction and effect of this Award and any rules and regulations relating to this Award shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota (without regard to its conflict of law principles).
 
(i) The vesting and settlement of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units pursuant to this Award is intended to qualify for the "short-term deferral" exemption from Section 409A of the Code. The Company reserves the right, to the extent the Company deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to unilaterally amend or modify the Plan and/or this Award certificate to ensure that the Award is made in a manner that qualifies for exemption from or complies with Section 409A of the Code; provided however, that the Company makes no representations that the Award will be exempt from Section 409A of the Code and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A of the Code from applying to this Award.
 


