FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20090721060857.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 21, 2009, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its second quarter 2009 results. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release contains the following non-GAAP financial measures: adjusted second quarter 2008 earnings from operations, diluted net earnings per common share, operating margin, and operating cost ratio, each of which excludes a pre-tax operating cost charge for settlement of two class action lawsuits related to the Company's historical stock option practices and related legal costs, a pre-tax operating cost charge for employee severance related to operating cost reduction initiatives and other items, and a pre-tax reduction in operating costs for proceeds from the sale of certain assets and membership in the individual Medicare Advantage business in Nevada in May 2008.
The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures to these non-GAAP measures are as follows:
 
Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are attached to the press release.
The information in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 21, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
 
 
(July 21, 2009)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) reported positive second quarter results today, including growth in revenues and net earnings per share and a continued strong financial position. Stephen J. Hemsley, president and chief executive officer of UnitedHealth Group, said, "Our employees continue to deliver value to our customers in this challenging economic environment. This quarter was characterized by continued strong execution, a sharp focus on costs and quality service, elevated engagement on health care reform, continued innovation in the marketplace and further diversification of our business."
MINNEAPOLIS
The Company improved its 2009 earnings outlook to $3.00 to $3.15 per share from the previous outlook range of $2.90 to $3.15 per share. The Company continues to project full year 2009 cash flows from operations of approximately $5 billion.
 
 
 
Management views year-over-year comparisons of results to generally be more meaningful than sequential comparisons, given the seasonality of revenues, medical expenses, operating costs and earnings from operations in business lines such as Medicare Part D drug programs, high deductible insurance products and health informatics offerings.
UnitedHealth Group Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  Health Care Services
Health Care Services provides network-based health care benefits and services for a full spectrum of customers. UnitedHealthcare serves employers ranging from sole proprietorships to large, multi-site and national employers, as well as students and individuals. In the Public and Senior Markets Group, Ovations delivers health and well-being services to Americans over the age of 50, while AmeriChoice manages health care services for state Medicaid and other publicly funded programs and their beneficiaries.
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services
 
 
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services  Continued
UnitedHealthcare
 
 
Ovations
 
 
 
 
AmeriChoice
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  OptumHealth
OptumHealth is one of the nation's leading health and wellness companies. Employers, payers and public sector organizations use OptumHealth behavioral benefit solutions, clinical care management, financial services and specialty benefit products such as dental and vision. OptumHealth helps consumers navigate the health care system, finance their health care needs and achieve their health and well-being goals.
 
Key Developments for OptumHealth
 
 
 
 
 
 
behavioral health programs for the state of New Mexico and Pierce County, Washington.
 
Business Description  Ingenix
Ingenix is a leader in the field of health care information, services and consulting, serving pharmaceutical companies, health insurers and other payers, physicians and other health care providers, large employers and governments.
 
Key Developments for Ingenix
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  Prescription Solutions
Prescription Solutions offers a comprehensive array of pharmacy benefit management and specialty pharmacy management services to employer groups, union trusts, seniors and commercial health plans.
 
Key Developments for Prescription Solutions
 
 
 
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, OptumHealth, Ingenix and Prescription Solutions. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 70 million individuals nationwide. Visit for more information.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Earnings Conference Call
As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the Company's results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 8:45 a.m. Eastern time today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Investors page of the Company's Web site (www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The webcast replay of the call will be available on the same site through August 4 following the live call. The conference call replay can also be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID #70594008. This earnings release and the Form 8-K dated July 21, 2009, which may also be accessed from the Investors page of the Company's web site, include a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "should" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and uncertainties and involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: our ability to effectively estimate, price for and manage our health care costs; our ability to respond quickly and appropriately to health care reforms; failure to comply with federal and state regulations affecting the managed care industry; the potential impact of the adverse conditions in the global economy and extreme disruption of financial markets on our revenues, sources of liquidity, investment portfolio, and our results of operations; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; competitive pressures, which could affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share, including as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; potential reductions in revenue received from Medicare and Medicaid programs, including as a result of reduced payments to private plans offering Medicare Advantage; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service professionals; our ability to attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent third party brokers, consultants and agents; failure to comply with restrictions on patient privacy and information security; events that may negatively affect our contracts with AARP; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation; the potential consequences of various governmental reviews and litigation matters related to our historical stock option practices and the potential consequences of each of these matters on our business, credit ratings and debt; events that may
 
adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; increases in health care costs resulting from large-scale medical emergencies; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care professional disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; our ability to obtain sufficient funds from our regulated subsidiaries to fund our obligations; failure to complete or receive anticipated benefits of acquisitions; and potential downgrades in our debt ratings.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including the cautionary statements in our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              Non-GAAP Operating Results Excluding Special Items
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


