FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20091020061109.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 20, 2009, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its third quarter 2009 results. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release contains the following non-GAAP financial measures with respect to the third quarter of 2008: adjusted third quarter 2008 operating cost ratio, operating margin, and earnings from operations, each of which excludes a benefit from a change in the estimated net costs to settle two class action lawsuits related to the Company's historical stock option practices.
The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures to these non-GAAP measures are as follows:
 
Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are attached to the press release.
The information in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 20, 2009
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
(October 20, 2009)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) reported third quarter results today, including growth in revenues and net earnings and a continued strong financial position. Stephen J. Hemsley, president and chief executive officer of UnitedHealth Group, said, "We combined successful overall cost containment and strong execution in our services businesses to continue to perform during a difficult economic period. This reinforces the value of our diversified business model. We continue to focus on delivering value for customers and stakeholders through responsive, high quality service and practical, innovative programs that improve health care system performance and help people live healthier lives."
MINNEAPOLIS
UnitedHealth Group earned $0.89 per share in the third quarter and confirmed 2009 earnings of approximately $3.15 per share and cash flows from operations of approximately $5 billion.
 
 
Management views year-over-year comparisons of results to generally be more meaningful than sequential comparisons, given the seasonality of revenues, medical expenses, operating costs and earnings from operations, primarily in its health benefits product offerings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Results  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company provides network-based health care benefits and related services for a full spectrum of customers. UnitedHealthcare serves employers ranging from sole proprietorships to large, multi-site and national employers, as well as students and individuals. In the Public and Senior Markets Group, Ovations delivers health and well-being services to Americans over the age of 50, while AmeriChoice manages health care services for state Medicaid and other publicly funded programs and their beneficiaries.
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealthcare
 
 
Ovations
 
 
 
 
 
 
AmeriChoice
 
 
 
 
 
OptumHealth is a national leader in health and wellness services. Employers, payers and public sector organizations use OptumHealth behavioral benefit solutions, clinical care management, financial services and specialty benefits such as dental and vision. OptumHealth helps consumers navigate the health care system, finance their health care needs and achieve their health and well-being goals.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ingenix is a leader in the field of health care information, services and consulting, serving physicians, hospitals and other health care providers, large employers and governments, health insurers and other benefits payers and pharmaceutical companies.
 
 
 
 
 
Prescription Solutions offers a comprehensive array of pharmacy benefit management and specialty pharmacy management services to employer groups, union trusts, seniors and commercial health plans.
 
 
 
 
 
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, OptumHealth, Ingenix and Prescription Solutions. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 70 million individuals nationwide. Visit for more information.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Earnings Conference Call
As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the Company's results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 8:45 a.m. Eastern time today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Investors page of the Company's Web site (www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The webcast replay of the call will be available on the same site through November 3 following the live call. The conference call replay can also be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID #70594384. This earnings release and the Form 8-K dated October 20, 2009, which may also be accessed from the Investors page of the Company's web site, include a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "should" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and uncertainties and involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: our ability to effectively estimate, price for and manage our health care costs; our ability to respond quickly and appropriately to health care reforms; failure to comply with federal and state regulations affecting the health care industry; the potential impact of the adverse conditions in the global economy and extreme disruption of financial markets on our revenues, sources of liquidity, investment portfolio, and our results of operations; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; competitive pressures, which could affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare; potential reductions in revenue received from Medicare and Medicaid programs, including as a result of reduced payments to private plans offering Medicare Advantage; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service professionals; our ability to attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent third party brokers, consultants and agents; failure to comply with restrictions on patient privacy and information security; events that may negatively affect our contracts with AARP; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation; the potential consequences of various governmental reviews and litigation matters related to our historical stock option practices; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; increases in health care costs resulting from large-scale medical emergencies; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems;
 
misappropriation of our proprietary technology; our ability to obtain sufficient funds from our regulated subsidiaries to fund our obligations; failure to complete or receive anticipated benefits of acquisitions; and potential downgrades in our debt ratings.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including the cautionary statements in our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


