FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20090122060925.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 22, 2009, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its fourth quarter and full year 2008 results. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release contains the following non-GAAP financial measures:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures to these non-GAAP measures are as follows:
 
Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are attached to the press release.
The information in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 22, 2009
 
 
 
 

N E W S    R E L E A S E
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
(January 22, 2009)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) today reported fourth quarter and full year 2008 results, which included strong cash flows from operations, a continued strong balance sheet and financial position, and key financial measures and medical cost trends well in line with Company expectations. Continuing growth in the Public and Senior Markets Group drove total net growth of 95,000 people served across all medical benefit product categories in the fourth quarter of 2008.
MINNEAPOLIS
 
 
UnitedHealth Group  Continued
Stephen J. Hemsley, president and chief executive officer of UnitedHealth Group, said, "During 2008 we effectively strengthened performance, improving our position despite the challenging economic environment. In 2009 we expect meaningful growth in our government-sponsored businesses as well as a year-over-year improvement in their product mix. There is strong interest in our Medicare market offerings and continued expansion from our state and public health program relationships, including growth in public sector specialty benefits. Notable improvements in our commercial health benefit businesses are taking root, including gains in fundamental operating performance and local market momentum."
Full year net earnings were $2.40 per share; adjusted for special items, the Company earned $2.95 per share in 2008.
Fourth quarter net earnings of $0.60 per share included an $0.18 per share charge to operating costs for the previously announced resolution of class action litigation for out of network medical services; adjusted fourth quarter net earnings were $0.78 per share. Both reported and adjusted fourth quarter earnings per share included $0.03 per share in net realized capital losses, primarily due to venture capital investment write-downs, partially offset by $0.01 per share pertaining to an insurance recovery on a previously reported legal settlement. The net realized capital losses, the costs of the legal matter from third quarter 2008 and the subsequent fourth quarter insurance recovery have not been treated as special items in the Company's financial statements.
Earnings Outlook
The Company is maintaining its previously announced 2009 outlook for net earnings in the range of $2.90 to $3.15 per share.
 
Quarterly and Annual Financial Performance
 
Management views year-over-year comparisons of results to be generally more meaningful than sequential comparisons, given the seasonality of revenues, medical expenses, operating costs and earnings from operations in important business lines such as Medicare Part D drug programs, high deductible insurance products and health informatics offerings.
UnitedHealth Group Highlights
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Highlights  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company also repurchased 8 million shares of its stock during the fourth quarter of 2008.
 
 
Business Description  Health Care Services
Health Care Services provides network-based health care benefits and services for a full spectrum of customers. UnitedHealthcare serves employers ranging from sole proprietorships to large, multi-site and national employers, as well as students and individuals. In the Public and Senior Markets Group, Ovations delivers health and well-being services to Americans over the age of 50, while AmeriChoice manages health care services for state Medicaid and other publicly funded programs and their beneficiaries.
Quarterly and Annual Financial Performance
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services
 
 
 
Key Developments for Health Care Services  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  OptumHealth
OptumHealth is one of the nation's leading health and wellness companies. Employers, payers and public sector organizations use OptumHealth behavioral benefit solutions, clinical care management, financial services and specialty benefit products such as dental and vision. OptumHealth helps consumers navigate the health care system, finance their health care needs and achieve their health and well-being goals.
Quarterly and Annual Financial Performance
 
Key Developments for OptumHealth
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  Ingenix
Ingenix is a leader in the field of health care information, services and consulting, serving pharmaceutical companies, health insurers and other payers, physicians and other health care providers, large employers and governments.
Quarterly and Annual Financial Performance
Key Developments for Ingenix
 
 
 
 
 
Business Description  Prescription Solutions
Prescription Solutions offers a comprehensive array of pharmacy benefit management and specialty pharmacy management services to employer groups, union trusts, seniors through Medicare prescription drug plans, and commercial health plans.
Quarterly and Annual Financial Performance
 
Key Developments for Prescription Solutions
 
 
 
 
 
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, OptumHealth, Ingenix and Prescription Solutions. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 70 million individuals nationwide. Visit for more information.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Earnings Conference Call
As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the Company's results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 8:45 a.m. Eastern time today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Investors page of the Company's Web site (www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The webcast replay of the call will be available on the same site through February 5, 2009 following the live call. The conference call replay can also be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID #28401255. This earnings release and the Form 8-K dated January 22, 2009, which may also be accessed from the Investors page of the Company's web site, include a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "will," "should" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and uncertainties and involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the potential consequences of various governmental reviews and litigation matters related to our historical stock option practices and the potential consequences of each of these matters on our business, credit ratings and debt; increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption or costs of medical services; heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers; events that may negatively affect our contracts with AARP; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; funding risks with respect to revenues received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; failure to achieve business growth targets, including membership and enrollment; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, legislative activity and government regulation and review of our industry; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service professionals; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care professional disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately
 
support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; failure to complete or receive anticipated benefits of acquisitions; change in debt to total capital ratio that is lower or higher than we anticipated; and the potential impact of the adverse conditions in the global economy and extreme disruption of financial markets on our revenues, sources of liquidity, investment portfolio, and our results of operations.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including the cautionary statements in our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REVENUES
 
EARNINGS FROM OPERATIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 


