FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20090603170926.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the close of business on April 3, 2009, the record date for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, there were 1,181,338,477 shares of common stock of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") outstanding and entitled to vote. At the Annual Meeting, holders of 1,046,032,576 shares of Company common stock were represented in person or by proxy. The shareholders of the Company voted on the following matters at the Annual Meeting:
1. . Nine directors were elected at the Annual Meeting as follows:
Election of Directors
 
2. . The appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm for the Company for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009 was ratified as follows:
Ratification of the Appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP
 
3. . The shareholder proposal concerning an advisory vote on executive compensation was not approved as follows:
Shareholder Proposal
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 2, 2009
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
(June 2, 2009)  The Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) today announced the voting results of the Company's 2009 annual meeting of shareholders that took place earlier today.
MINNEAPOLIS
Election of Directors
By an overwhelming majority, the Company's shareholders elected for one-year terms to the Board of Directors William C. Ballard, Jr., Richard T. Burke, Robert J. Darretta, Stephen J. Hemsley, Michele J. Hooper, Douglas W. Leatherdale, Glenn M. Renwick, Kenneth Shine, M.D., and Gail R. Wilensky, Ph.D. UnitedHealth Group directors stand for election annually.
A proposal for an advisory vote on executive compensation ("Say on pay") failed to pass, receiving 38.5% of the vote.
UnitedHealth Group's president and chief executive officer, Stephen J. Hemsley, said, "We have leading market positions and a sound financial position, and we can use these to strengthen our company internally and externally. We are dedicated to continue to find ways to increase the value we provide to our customers, to meet the changing needs they have and to participate in the larger effort to improve the health care system for all Americans. Leading companies take advantage of change and challenging markets. There is a huge opportunity for UnitedHealth Group to continue to advance care for the people we serve and to create value for society."
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, OptumHealth, Ingenix, and Prescription Solutions. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 70 million individuals nationwide.


