FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20090115092225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On January 13, 2009, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing it has reached an agreement with the New York attorney general regarding an investigation into two database products used to determine out-of-network reimbursement amounts for certain health plan members. A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein. In addition, on January 14, 2009, the Company reached an agreement to settle class action litigation related to reimbursement for out-of-network medical services. A copy of the press release announcing the settlement is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1 Press Release dated January 13, 2009 99.2 Press Release dated January 15, 2009
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

(For Immediate Release)
(January 13, 2009) UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) today announced it has reached an agreement with the New York attorney general regarding an investigation into two database products used to determine out-of-network reimbursement amounts for certain health plan members. The company believes the agreement will enhance the transparency of information related to physician fees for out-of-network services.
MINNEAPOLIS
In particular, the agreement commits UnitedHealth Group to pay $50 million to fund a not-for-profit entity to develop and own a new, independent database product to replace the Prevailing Health Charges System (PHCS) and Medical Data Research (MDR) database products owned by UnitedHealth Group's subsidiary, Ingenix, Inc. Both products are used by a number of health plans and employers as tools that help determine the amount to reimburse members who receive physician services outside their managed care networks. When the new database product is ready, Ingenix will close the PHCS and MDR database products.
"We are committed to increasing the amount of useful information available in the health care marketplace so that people can make informed decisions, and this agreement is consistent with that approach and philosophy," said Thomas L. Strickland, executive vice president and chief legal officer of UnitedHealth Group. "We are pleased that an independent not-for-profit entity will play this important role for the marketplace."
The not-for-profit entity designated by the attorney general will collect information on the prices charged by physicians and make that information available to health plans in place of the Ingenix database products. In addition, the not-for-profit entity will develop a Web site designed to educate health care consumers more directly about market prices for health care services. This contribution was fully accrued for in the company's 2008 third quarter financial results.
UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, OptumHealth, Ingenix, and Prescription Solutions. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 70 million individuals nationwide.
About UnitedHealth Group

(For Immediate Release)
(January 15, 2009)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) announced today that it has reached an agreement to settle class action litigation related to reimbursement for out-of-network medical services. The agreement resolves class action litigation filed on behalf of the American Medical Association (AMA), health plan members, health care providers and state medical societies.
MINNEAPOLIS
Under the terms of the proposed nationwide settlement, UnitedHealth Group and its affiliated entities will be released from claims relating to its out-of-network reimbursement policies from March 15, 1994, through the date of final court approval of the settlement. UnitedHealth Group will pay a total of $350 million to fund the settlement for health plan members and out-of-network providers in connection with out-of-network procedures performed since 1994. The agreement contains no admission of wrongdoing. UnitedHealth Group believes it is in the best interests of the company to resolve these matters and move forward.
The company believes that this retrospective settlement, coupled with the prospective agreement with New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo announced earlier this week, resolves the issues that have been raised by the AMA and the New York Attorney General concerning the company's two physician charge databases.
The company will pay for this settlement with cash on hand, and the accrual will be included in financial results for the Fourth Quarter 2008, as part of operating costs for GAAP accounting.
Mitchell Zamoff, General Counsel, UnitedHealthcare, said, "We are pleased to have reached an agreement that provides closure on these matters."
Reed V. Tuckson, M.D., executive vice president and chief medical officer, UnitedHealth Group, said, "We are pleased to put these issues behind us so that we can focus on the important work of assisting physicians in their effort to provide the best possible, quality health care to their patients. We are excited about working to meet the needs of physicians and patients to meaningfully enhance both the quality and efficiency in health care delivery."
The proposed settlement is subject to preliminary and final court approval. In addition, the company has the right to terminate the settlement under certain circumstances, including in the event that a certain number of class members elect to opt-out of the settlement.
An independent administrator will be selected prior to court approval of the settlement agreement, and class members can expect to be notified by mail or publication by that independent administrator.
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, OptumHealth, Ingenix and Prescription Solutions. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 70 million individuals nationwide. Visit www.unitedhealthgroup.com for more information.
About UnitedHealth Group
This press release may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "will," "should" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and uncertainties and involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors, including obtaining court approval of the proposed settlement and satisfaction of other settlement conditions.
Forward-Looking Statements


