FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20100121061056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 21, 2010, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its fourth quarter and full year 2009 results. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release contains the following non-GAAP financial measures:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures to these non-GAAP measures are as follows:
 
 
Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are attached to the press release.
The information in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 21, 2010
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
 
(January 21, 2010)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) today reported growth in revenues and net earnings per share in 2009. The Company earned $0.81 per share in the fourth quarter, bringing full year 2009 net earnings to $3.24 per share. The Company confirmed its outlook for 2010 earnings in the range of $2.90 to $3.10 per share and cash flows from operations in the range of $4.0 billion to $4.4 billion.
MINNEAPOLIS
Stephen J. Hemsley, president and chief executive officer of UnitedHealth Group, said, "Despite a challenging economy, we achieved solid results that exceeded our initial outlook on almost every key measure this past year. The fourth quarter showed continued momentum in health services businesses and public and senior health benefits programs, as well as ongoing success in containing medical and operating costs. This focus on affordability for customers, coupled with our ability to consistently drive practical innovation, will be increasingly important as the need for access to more affordable, better quality health care continues to grow."
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group  Continued
The Company's focus on practical innovation yielded advances in 2009 that benefit customers by helping to address core issues in health care and health system performance. These include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management views year-over-year comparisons of results to generally be more meaningful than sequential comparisons, given the seasonality of revenues, medical expenses, operating costs and earnings from operations, primarily in its health benefits product offerings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Results  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Through its Health Benefits businesses, the Company provides network-based health care benefits and related services for a full spectrum of customers. UnitedHealthcare serves employers ranging from sole proprietorships to large, multi-site and national employers, as well as students and individuals. In the Public and Senior Markets Group, Ovations delivers health and well-being services to Americans over the age of 50, while AmeriChoice manages health care services for state Medicaid and other publicly funded programs and their beneficiaries.
 
 
 
 
Health Benefits Business Results  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Through its Health Services businesses, the Company provides consumer services, software, pharmaceutical and specialty benefit management, financial capabilities, data and analytics, consulting and other services to a broad variety of customers across the U.S. health system, as well as in international markets. Through these offerings, these businesses seek to improve health system performance for customers and their constituents.
 
 
 
 
 
OptumHealth is a national leader in health and wellness services. Employers, payers and public sector organizations use OptumHealth behavioral benefit solutions, clinical care management, financial services and specialty benefits such as dental and vision. OptumHealth helps consumers navigate the health care system, finance their health care needs and achieve their health and well-being goals.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ingenix is a leader in the field of health care information, services and consulting, serving physicians, hospitals and other health care providers, large employers and governments, health insurers and other benefits payers and pharmaceutical companies.
 
 
 
 
 
Prescription Solutions offers a comprehensive array of pharmacy benefit management and specialty pharmacy management services to employer groups, union trusts, seniors and commercial health plans.
 
 
 
 
 
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, OptumHealth, Ingenix and Prescription Solutions. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 70 million individuals nationwide. Visit for more information.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Earnings Conference Call
As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the Company's results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 8:45 a.m. Eastern time today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Investors page of the Company's Web site (www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The webcast replay of the call will be available on the same site through February 4 following the live call. The conference call replay can also be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID # 21763269. This earnings release and the Form 8-K dated January 21, 2010, which may also be accessed from the Investors page of the Company's Web site, include a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "should" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and uncertainties and involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors.
Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the outcome of health care reform, which could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial position and cash flows, including increasing our costs, subjecting us to new and potentially significant taxes, exposing us to expanded liability, requiring us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or putting us at risk for loss of business (our financial outlook does not account for any potential impact of health care reform on our businesses); our ability to effectively estimate, price for and manage our health care costs, including the impact of any new coverage requirements; the potential impact of the adverse conditions in the United States on our revenues (including decreases in enrollment resulting from increases in the unemployment rate and commercial attrition), sources of liquidity, investment portfolio, and our results of operations; failure to achieve targeted operating cost productivity improvements, including savings resulting from technology enhancement and administrative modernization; failure to comply with federal and state regulations affecting the health care industry; increases in medical, administrative, technology or other costs resulting from federal and state regulations affecting the health care industry; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; competitive pressures, which could affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare; potential reductions in revenue received from Medicare and Medicaid programs, including as a result of reduced payments to
 
private plans offering Medicare Advantage; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service professionals; our ability to attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent third-party brokers, consultants and agents; failure to comply with restrictions on patient privacy and information security; events that may negatively affect our contracts with AARP; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation; the potential consequences of various governmental reviews and litigation matters related to our historical stock option practices; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; increases in health care costs resulting from large-scale medical emergencies; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; our ability to obtain sufficient funds from our regulated subsidiaries to fund our obligations; failure to complete or receive anticipated benefits of acquisitions; and potential downgrades in our debt ratings.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including the cautionary statements in our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


