FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20101019060916.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 19, 2010, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its third quarter 2010 results. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 19, 2010
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
 
(October 19, 2010)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) today reported third quarter results, including strong revenue growth in both its Health Benefits and Health Services business groups. Third quarter 2010 net earnings were $1.14 per share. Key performance metrics and costs were in line with or better than Company expectations.
MINNEAPOLIS
Stephen J. Hemsley, president and chief executive officer of UnitedHealth Group, said, "Fundamental execution, increasing business diversity, and on-going product and service innovation continue to be key elements anchoring the Company's sustained growth. Third quarter revenues increased by $2 billion year-over-year, driven by a growing number of customers in a wide array of market segments selecting more offerings from our Health Benefits and Health Services business platforms. We are committed to meeting changing customer needs as these markets evolve."
The Company's full year financial outlook anticipates 2010 revenues approaching $94 billion, net earnings in the range of $3.85 to $3.95 per share and cash flows from operations of more than $5 billion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealthcare provides network-based health care benefits for a full spectrum of customers in the health benefits market. UnitedHealthcare serves employers ranging from sole proprietorships to large, multi-site and national employers, as well as students and individuals, delivers health and well-being benefits to Medicare beneficiaries and retirees, and manages health care benefit programs on behalf of state Medicaid and community programs and their participants.
 
 
 
 
Health Benefits Business Results  Continued
 
 
UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual (formerly UnitedHealthcare)
 
 
UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement (formerly Ovations)
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealthcare Community & State (formerly AmeriChoice)
 
 
 
Through its Health Services businesses, the Company provides care management, prevention and wellness services, financial services dedicated to health care, pharmaceutical benefit management, software, health data and analytics, consulting and other services to a broad variety of customers in the United States and international markets. Through these offerings, the Health Services businesses seek to improve overall health system performance.
 
 
 
 
 
OptumHealth is a national leader in health and wellness services. Employers, payers and public sector organizations use OptumHealth behavioral health solutions, clinical care management, financial services and specialty offerings such as dental and vision. OptumHealth helps consumers navigate the health care system, finance their health care needs and better achieve their health and well-being goals.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ingenix is a leader in the field of health care information, services and consulting, serving physicians, hospitals and other health care providers, large employers and governments, health insurers and benefits payers and pharmaceutical companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prescription Solutions offers a comprehensive array of pharmacy benefit management and specialty pharmacy management services to employer groups, union trusts, seniors and commercial health plans.
 
 
 
 
 
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement, UnitedHealthcare Community & State, OptumHealth, Ingenix and Prescription Solutions. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 75 million individuals worldwide. Visit for more information.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Earnings Conference Call
As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the Company's results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 8:45 a.m. Eastern time today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Investors page of the Company's Web site (www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The webcast replay of the call will be available on the same site through November 2, 2010, following the live call. The conference call replay can also be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID # 21770126. This earnings release and the Form 8-K dated October 19, 2010 may also be accessed from the Investors page of the Company's Web site.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "should" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and uncertainties and involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors.
Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the ultimate impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations through reduced revenues, increased costs, new taxes, and expanded liability, or require changes to the ways in which we conduct business or put us at risk for loss of business; our ability to effectively estimate, price for and manage our medical costs, including the impact of any new coverage requirements; the potential impact that new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement could have on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows, including as a result of increases in medical, administrative, technology or other costs resulting from federal and state regulations affecting the health care industry; the potential impact of adverse economic conditions on our revenues (including decreases in enrollment resulting from increases in the unemployment rate and commercial attrition) and results of operations; regulatory and other risks and uncertainties associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; competitive pressures, which could affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare; potential reductions in revenue received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; our
 
ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service professionals; our ability to attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent third party brokers, consultants and agents; failure to comply with restrictions on patient privacy and data security regulations; events that may negatively affect our contracts with AARP; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; increases in health care costs resulting from large-scale medical emergencies; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; our ability to obtain sufficient funds from our regulated subsidiaries to fund our obligations; the potential impact of our future cash and capital requirements on our ability to maintain our quarterly dividend payment cycle; failure to complete or receive anticipated benefits of acquisitions; potential downgrades in our credit ratings; and failure to achieve targeted operating cost productivity improvements, including savings resulting from technology enhancement and administrative modernization.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including the cautionary statements in our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
 
- Consolidated Statements of Operations
- Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
- Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
- Segment Financial Information
- UnitedHealthcare Customer Profile
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: UnitedHealth Group served 75.1 million discrete individuals across all businesses at September 2010, 76.4 million at June 2010, 70.3 million at December 2009, 70.3 million at September 2009 and 72.8 million at December 2008.


