FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20100420061014.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 20, 2010, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its first quarter 2010 results. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release contains the non-GAAP financial measure adjusted first quarter 2010 medical costs days payable, which excludes an increase in medical costs days payable resulting from the acquisition of Health Net, Inc.'s Northeast commercial and Medicaid businesses in December 2009. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to this non-GAAP measure is first quarter 2010 medical costs days payable, which was 49 days. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to the press release.
The information in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
 
(April 20, 2010)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) today reported first quarter results, including better-than-projected membership and services growth and effective cost management across its businesses. Financial metrics were in line with or better than Company expectations.
MINNEAPOLIS
Stephen J. Hemsley, president and chief executive officer of UnitedHealth Group, said, "This quarter again reflects solid results. Each quarter we are performing more strongly, improving in consumer and care provider satisfaction, delivering a steady stream of innovation, and effectively and appropriately controlling operating and medical costs. The market is recognizing this steadily advancing fundamental execution. We can see this in better market responses and growth and in strong business retention. We expect further opportunities will emerge for companies that can effectively optimize care resources and deliver the high quality care and innovation that consumers value. Our focus on these areas, supported by our investments in organizing health resources, modern technology and health information, positions us well to meet the market's changing requirements and bring further value to those we serve."
The Company anticipates full year 2010 revenues of approximately $92 billion, net earnings in the range of $3.15 to $3.35 per share and cash flows from operations in the range of $4.4 billion to $4.8 billion.
 
 
Management views year-over-year comparisons of results to generally be more meaningful than sequential comparisons, given the seasonality of revenues, medical expenses, operating costs and earnings from operations, primarily in its health benefits product offerings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group Results  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Through its Health Benefits businesses  UnitedHealthcare, Ovations and AmeriChoice  the Company provides network-based health care benefits and related services for a full spectrum of customers. UnitedHealthcare serves employers ranging from sole proprietorships to large, multi-site and national employers, as well as students and individuals. In the Public and Senior Markets Group, the Company delivers UnitedHealthcare-branded health and well-being services to Americans over the age of 50 and manages health care services for state Medicaid and other publicly funded programs and their beneficiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
Health Benefits Business Results  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Through its Health Services businesses, the Company provides consumer services, software, pharmaceutical and specialty benefit management, financial capabilities dedicated to health care, health data and analytics, consulting and other services to a broad variety of customers in the United States and international markets. Through these offerings, these businesses seek to improve health system performance for customers and their constituents.
 
 
 
 
OptumHealth is a national leader in health and wellness services. Employers, payers and public sector organizations use OptumHealth behavioral benefit solutions, clinical care management, financial services and specialty benefits such as dental and vision. OptumHealth helps consumers navigate the health care system, finance their health care needs and better achieve their health and well-being goals.
 
 
 
 
 
Ingenix is a leader in the field of health care information, services and consulting, serving physicians, hospitals and other health care providers, large employers and governments, health insurers and other benefits payers and pharmaceutical companies.
 
 
 
 
 
Prescription Solutions offers a comprehensive array of pharmacy benefit management and specialty pharmacy management services to employer groups, union trusts, seniors and commercial health plans.
 
 
 
 
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, OptumHealth, Ingenix and Prescription Solutions. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves 75 million individuals worldwide. Visit for more information.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Earnings Conference Call
As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the Company's results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 8:45 a.m. Eastern time today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Investors page of the Company's Web site (www.unitedhealthgroup.com). The webcast replay of the call will be available on the same site through May 4, 2010 following the live call. The conference call replay can also be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID # 21767972. This earnings release and the Form 8-K dated April 20, 2010, which may also be accessed from the Investors page of the Company's Web site, include a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "should" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and uncertainties and involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors.
Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the ultimate impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations through reduced revenues, increased costs, new taxes, expanded liability, changes to the ways in which we conduct business or putting us at risk for loss of business; our ability to effectively estimate, price for and manage our medical costs, including the impact of any new coverage requirements; the potential impact that new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement could have on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows, including as a result of increases in medical, administrative, technology or other costs resulting from federal and state regulations affecting the health care industry; the potential impact of adverse economic conditions on our revenues (including decreases in enrollment resulting from increases in the unemployment rate and commercial attrition) and results of operations; regulatory and other risks and uncertainties associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; competitive pressures, which could affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare; potential reductions in revenue received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service professionals; our ability to attract, retain and provide
 
support to a network of independent third party brokers, consultants and agents; failure to comply with restrictions on patient privacy and data security regulations; events that may negatively affect our contracts with AARP; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; increases in health care costs resulting from large-scale medical emergencies; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; our ability to obtain sufficient funds from our regulated subsidiaries to fund our obligations; failure to complete or receive anticipated benefits of acquisitions; potential downgrades in our credit ratings; and failure to achieve targeted operating cost productivity improvements, including savings resulting from technology enhancement and administrative modernization.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including the cautionary statements in our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medical days payable, as used in the press release, excludes medical costs payable related to the acquisition of Health Net of the Northeast commercial and Medicaid businesses, is not calculated in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for or superior to a financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Management believes that the use of non-GAAP financial measures improves the comparability of our results between periods. These financial measures provide investors and our management with useful information to measure and forecast our results of operations, to compare on a consistent basis our results of operations for the current period to that of prior periods, and to compare our results of operations on a more consistent basis against that of other companies in the health care industry.
These non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the special items associated with the operations of our business as determined in accordance with GAAP. As a result, one should not consider these measures in isolation. We compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as non-GAAP basis, disclosing these GAAP financial measures, and providing a reconciliation from GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


