FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20101215172416.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 14, 2010, Mr. Stephen Hemsley and UnitedHealth Group (the "Company") entered into an amendment to Mr. Hemsley's employment agreement to extend the Employment Period for four years to December 1, 2014. The amendment also clarifies that the scope of the non-competition provisions of the employment agreement will control to the extent such provisions are different from the terms of any other agreement between the Company and Mr. Hemsley. All other terms of the employment agreement are unchanged.
A copy of amendment to the employment agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 15, 2010
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (the "Amendment") modifies certain terms and conditions of the employment agreement dated November 7, 2006 between Stephen J. Hemsley ("Executive") and UnitedHealth Group Incorporated or an affiliated entity ("UnitedHealth Group"), as amended by that Amendment to Employment Agreement and SERP dated December 31, 2008 (collectively the "Employment Agreement") for purposes of extending the employment period to December 1, 2014 and revising certain non-competition provisions. Accordingly, notwithstanding anything else to the contrary in the Employment Agreement, Executive's Employment Agreement is amended, effective December 14, 2010, as follows:
 
". UnitedHealth Group agrees to employ Executive, and Executive hereby accepts such employment with the Company, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, for the period beginning on the Effective Date and ending on December 1, 2014 (the "Employment Period"), unless sooner terminated in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. The Employment Period shall automatically be extended for successive additional one-year periods on December 1
Employment
st
commencing December 1, 2014 unless either party to this Agreement provides the other party with notice of termination of this Agreement at least sixty (60) days prior to the date on which the Employment Period would be automatically extended for an additional one year.
 
 
"Notwithstanding the terms of any other agreement heretofore or hereafter entered into between the parties relating to non-competition restrictions, to the extent other agreements contain non-competition provisions wherein the scope of the activity restriction (excluding the duration and geographic limitations) are different or inconsistent with the non-competition provisions set out herein, Executive and the Company acknowledge and agree that the scope of the activity restriction in this paragraph 5(c) (excluding the duration and geographic limitations) shall control and replace the scope of activity duration (excluding the duration geographic limitation) in such other agreements."
Except as expressly set forth in this Amendment, the Employment Agreement remains in full force and effect according to its terms.
 


