FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20100106092036.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 6, 2010, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated issued a press release announcing its commencement of modified "Dutch Auction" cash tender offers to purchase (i) up to $200 million aggregate principal amount of its outstanding 5.250% Notes due March 2011; 5.500% Notes due November 2012; 4.875% Notes due February 2013; and 4.875% Notes due April 2013; and (ii) up to $550 million aggregate principal amount of its outstanding 4.750% Notes due February 2014; 5.000% Notes due August 2014; 4.875% Notes due March 2015; 5.375% Notes due March 2016; 6.000% Notes due June 2017; and 6.000% Notes due November 2017. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 6, 2010
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
()
For Immediate Release
(January 6, 2010)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) today announced that it has commenced modified "Dutch Auction" cash tender offers for up to (i) $200 million aggregate principal amount of its short-term notes listed in the table below (the "short-term offer") and (ii) $550 million aggregate principal amount of its intermediate-term notes listed in the table below (the "intermediate-term offer"). UnitedHealth Group believes this proposed debt repurchase will improve the matching of floating rate assets and liabilities on its balance sheet and reduce its debt service cost, further strengthening the company's solid financial position. UnitedHealth Group expects to use a combination of cash on hand and the proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper to fund the purchase of the notes. The company does not anticipate reporting any charges to earnings for the retirement of the tendered notes.
MINNEAPOLIS
The notes subject to purchase and other information relating to the tender offers are listed in the table below:
 
 
 
The following is a summary of the key terms of the tender offers:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This announcement is for informational purposes only and is not an offer to purchase or a solicitation of an offer to purchase any notes. The tender offers are being made solely pursuant to an Offer to Purchase and related documents. The tender offers are not being made in any jurisdiction in which the making of or acceptance thereof would not be in compliance with the securities, blue sky or other laws of such jurisdiction. Neither UnitedHealth Group, any Dealer Manager, nor the Information Agent and Depositary makes any recommendation as to whether holders should tender their notes pursuant to the tender offers. Holders must make their own decisions whether to tender notes and, if so, the principal amount of notes to tender.
 
UnitedHealth Group has retained BofA Merrill Lynch, Citi, J.P. Morgan and RBS as Dealer Managers for the tender offers. Global Bondholder Services Corp. is the Information Agent and Depositary for the tender offers.
For additional information regarding the terms of the tender offers, please contact: BofA Merrill Lynch at (888) 292-0070 (toll-free) or (980) 388-4603 (collect), Citi at (800) 558-3745 (toll-free) or (212) 723-6106 (collect), J.P. Morgan at (866) 834-4666 (toll-free) or (212) 834-3424 (collect) or RBS at (877) 297-9832 (toll-free) or (203) 897-6145 (collect). Requests for documents and questions regarding the tendering of notes may be directed to Global Bondholder Services Corp. at (212) 430-3774 (for banks and brokers only) or (866) 470-4200 (for all others toll-free).
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through six operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, OptumHealth, Ingenix and Prescription Solutions. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 70 million individuals nationwide. Visit www.unitedhealthgroup.com for more information.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "should" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and uncertainties and involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors.
Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the outcome of health care reform, which could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial position and cash flows, including increasing our costs, subjecting us to new and potentially significant taxes, exposing us to expanded liability, requiring us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or putting us at risk for loss of business (our financial outlook does not account for any potential impact of health care reform on our businesses); our ability to effectively estimate, price for and manage our health care costs, including the impact of any new coverage requirements; the potential impact of the adverse conditions in the United States on our revenues (including decreases in enrollment resulting from increases in the unemployment rate and commercial attrition), sources of liquidity, investment portfolio, and our results of operations; failure to achieve targeted operating cost productivity improvements, including savings resulting from technology enhancement and administrative modernization; failure
 
to comply with federal and state regulations affecting the health care industry; increases in medical, administrative, technology or other costs resulting from federal and state regulations affecting the health care industry; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; competitive pressures, which could affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare; potential reductions in revenue received from Medicare and Medicaid programs, including as a result of reduced payments to private plans offering Medicare Advantage; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service professionals; our ability to attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent third-party brokers, consultants and agents; failure to comply with restrictions on patient privacy and information security; events that may negatively affect our contracts with AARP; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation; the potential consequences of various governmental reviews and litigation matters related to our historical stock option practices; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; increases in health care costs resulting from large-scale medical emergencies; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; our ability to obtain sufficient funds from our regulated subsidiaries to fund our obligations; failure to complete or receive anticipated benefits of acquisitions; and potential downgrades in our credit ratings.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including the cautionary statements in our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 


