FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20111128071029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On November 28, 2011, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it will host its annual investor conference with analysts and investors in New York City on Tuesday, November 29, 2011 (the "Investor Conference"). A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The Company will have an audio webcast beginning at 8:00 a.m. EST of the management presentations and question and answer sessions from the Investor Conference from its Investors page at www.unitedhealthgroup.com. A replay of the Investor Conference will be available on the Company website through December 14, 2011. The Investor Conference book containing answers to questions frequently asked by investors and related data about the Company's businesses will also be available on the Company's Investors page at www.unitedhealthgroup.com. In addition, senior members of the Companys management team will be making an appearance at the Piper Jaffray 23rd Annual Health Care Conference in New York, New York on November 30, 2011 at 11:00 a.m., Eastern Time. Management will answer investor questions about the Companys Optum health services business platform. The Company will have an audio webcast from the Company's Investors page of its website at www.unitedhealthgroup.com. The information in this Item 7.01, including the exhibit attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit Description 99.1 Press Release dated November 28, 2011
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EX-99.1
(For Immediate Release)
(November 28, 2011)  UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) will host its annual Investor Conference with analysts and institutional investors in New York City on Tuesday, November 29, 2011, beginning at 8:00 a.m. EST. At the meeting, senior leaders will discuss the Company's performance and outlook, including reviewing business trends and specific initiatives related to its various business units.
MINNETONKA, MINN.
The Company will host an audio webcast of the presentation and management question and answer portions of this meeting and will make conference materials available on its investors page at . A replay of the conference will be available on the Company Web site through December 14, 2011.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
In conjunction with the meeting, the Company will affirm its previous outlook for 2011 net earnings of $4.52 to $4.57 per share. Management will discuss its 2012 financial outlook, which includes revenues of $107 billion to $108 billion and net earnings of $4.55 to $4.75 per share. The 2012 outlook does not reflect the pending acquisition of XLHealth Corp. or include any estimate of costs pertaining to the Penn Treaty matter.
UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to helping people live healthier lives and making health care work better. With headquarters in Minnetonka, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through two distinct platforms: UnitedHealthcare, which provides health care coverage and benefits services; and Optum, which provides information and technology-enabled health services. Through its businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 75 million people worldwide. For more information, visit UnitedHealth Group at .
About UnitedHealth Group
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
This press release may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "should" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions and trends and involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors.
Forward-Looking Statements
Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: our ability to effectively estimate, price for and manage our medical costs, including the impact of any new coverage requirements; the potential impact that new laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations, or their enforcement or application could have on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows, including as a result of increases in medical, administrative, technology or other costs resulting from federal and state regulations affecting the health care industry; the impact of any potential assessments for insolvent payers under state guaranty fund laws; the ultimate impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations through reduced revenues, increased costs, new taxes and expanded liability, or require changes to the ways in which we conduct business or put us at risk for loss of business; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including potential changes in risk adjustment data validation audit and payment adjustment methodology; potential reductions in revenue received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; failure to comply with restrictions on patient privacy and data security regulations; regulatory and other risks and uncertainties associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; competitive pressures, which could affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share; the potential impact of adverse economic conditions on our revenues (including decreases in enrollment resulting from increases in the unemployment rate and commercial attrition) and results of operations; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service professionals; our ability to attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent third party brokers, consultants and agents; events that may negatively affect our contracts with AARP; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, government investigations, audits or reviews; the performance of our investment portfolio; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets in connection with dispositions or if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for our existing businesses or the businesses that we acquire; increases in health care costs resulting from large-scale medical emergencies; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems or if our technology products do not operate as intended; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; our ability to obtain sufficient funds from our regulated subsidiaries to fund our obligations; the potential impact of our future cash and capital requirements on our ability to maintain our quarterly dividend payment cycle; failure to complete or receive anticipated benefits of acquisitions; potential downgrades in our credit ratings; and failure to achieve targeted operating cost productivity improvements, including savings resulting from technology enhancement and administrative modernization.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in UnitedHealth Group's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including the cautionary statements in our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking statements.


