FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20110706073358.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 6, 2011, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing changes to its executive leadership structure effective July 5, 2011. A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in this Item 5.02 by reference.
Larry C. Renfro, Executive Vice President, UnitedHealth Group, has been appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of Optum and will assume responsibility and oversight for Optum, the Company's health services platform, including OptumHealth, OptumInsight and OptumRx.
George L. Mikan III will terminate his employment with the Company effective February 29, 2012 (the "Termination Date"). Mr. Mikan will provide to Optum transitional assistance and other executive level responsibilities assigned to him from time-to-time until the Termination Date. During the period of Mr. Mikan's continued employment his base compensation shall remain unchanged. Mr. Mikan will be eligible to participate in the Company's annual incentive compensation plan for 2011, but will not receive a payout under the long-term cash incentive award for the 2009-2011 performance period under the Company's Executive Incentive Plan.
In connection with Mr. Mikan's contemplated departure, the Company and Mr. Mikan entered into a Separation and Release Agreement effective July 5, 2011 (the "Separation Agreement"). The Separation Agreement provides that upon his termination, Mr. Mikan will receive cash severance compensation pursuant to the terms of his employment agreement dated November 7, 2006. Subject to (i) Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and its accompanying regulations and (ii) the delivery by Mr. Mikan to the Company of releases of claims, the severance compensation will be payable over the two-year period following the Termination Date. Under the terms of the equity award agreements that govern Mr. Mikan's previously granted equity awards, such awards will continue to vest and remain exercisable during the period of his continued employment and the period of payment of the severance compensation as long as Mr. Mikan complies with the terms of the Separation Agreement.
Mr. Mikan has agreed during his remaining employment, and (a) for two years after the Termination Date, not to compete directly or indirectly with the Company, subject to his right to provide service to one or more private equity funds under certain limited circumstances, and (b) for three years after the Termination Date, (i) not to recruit or solicit any Company employee or consultant, and (ii) not to directly or indirectly solicit any person or entity who was a Company provider or customer within 18 months of the Termination Date and with whom Mr. Mikan had contact to further the Company's business or for whom Mr. Mikan performed services or supervised the provision of services during his employment. If Mr. Mikan violates a restrictive covenant in the Separation Agreement, Mr. Mikan is required to repay value realized on certain vested equity, forfeit all unvested equity and unpaid severance compensation, and pay the actual damages sustained by the Company, subject to certain limited exceptions.
 
In addition, Mr. Mikan agreed, and will agree at the Termination Date, to release the Company, its subsidiaries, its directors, officers, shareholders, agents and other representatives from all claims he may have, known or unknown, against them, except that the release neither waives certain rights he has under the Company's retirement plan and welfare benefits plans, nor waives his right to file an administrative charge with or participate in an administrative proceeding conducted by any governmental agency concerning his employment.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 6, 2011
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
July 6, 2011  UnitedHealth Group [NYSE: UNH] today announced that Larry C. Renfro has been named chief executive officer of Optum, its health services business platform, effective immediately.
MINNETONKA, MN,
Renfro takes over from G. Mike Mikan, who is leaving to lead a private equity fund.
Optum is UnitedHealth Group's $27 billion information and technology-enabled health services business platform serving the broad health care marketplace, including care providers, plan sponsors, payers, life sciences companies and consumers. Its business units  OptumInsight, OptumHealth and OptumRx  employ more than 30,000 people worldwide.
The CEOs of the three Optum businesses  Dawn Owens, CEO of OptumHealth, Andy Slavitt, CEO of OptumInsight, and Jackie Kosecoff, CEO of OptumRx  will report to Renfro.
Stephen J. Hemsley, president and chief executive officer of UnitedHealth Group, said, "Larry's skills, depth and broad range of experience will help ensure that Optum continues its focus on customers and execution, growth and development. He brings to Optum a deep experience in health care blended with a background of leadership in technology-driven, financial, seniors and other services businesses. Larry is a trusted leader, counselor and advisor, and, with his proven capability to build new, emerging businesses and to run large, established enterprises, he is ideally suited to extend the momentum generated by the entire Optum team."
Renfro said, "As the health care landscape continues to evolve, Optum's deep understanding of the diverse and changing needs of participants across the health system enables it to deliver collaborative solutions that provide the insights and care to help build sustainable health communities. We have an outstanding team in place that has been effectively building the Optum platform to make it easier for clients to connect with the broad skills and expertise, innovative capabilities and end-to-end solutions across our businesses, and I am grateful to be able to join their efforts full-time."
 
Hemsley added, "Mike Mikan is an extraordinary talent who has made numerous contributions of incalculable value to our enterprise over the years, for which we will always be grateful. While we will miss him as a friend and colleague, we understand his desire to move in a new direction, and we wish him every success as he does so."
Larry Renfro joined UnitedHealth Group in January 2009 and was named chief executive officer, Public and Senior Markets Group, including the businesses serving government-sponsored health programs now known as UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement and UnitedHealthcare Community & State. He joined the office of the CEO in 2011. Before joining UnitedHealth Group, Renfro was a senior executive officer at Fidelity Investments and a member of the Fidelity Executive Committee, overseeing several of Fidelity's non-investment business units. He was president and chief executive officer of AARP Services, Inc., before he rejoined Fidelity in 2008. Renfro has also held senior executive leadership positions at NewRiver, Inc.; State Street Bank & Trust; and Allmerica Financial.
The Optum businesses serve care providers, including nearly 250,000 health professionals and physician practices; 6,200 hospitals and facilities; more than 270 state and federal government agencies; over 2,000 health plans; two of every five FORTUNE 500 employers; more than 400 global life sciences companies; and one in every five U.S. consumers. Together, these businesses help organizations address significant challenges such as improving clinical performance, implementing new models for care delivery and reimbursement, complying with new regulations, and reducing administrative and financial burdens.
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to helping people live healthier lives and making health care work better. With headquarters in Minnetonka, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through two distinct platforms: UnitedHealthcare, which provides health care coverage and benefits services; and Optum, which provides information and technology-enabled health services. Through its businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 75 million people worldwide. Visit www.unitedhealthgroup.com for more information.
 


