FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20110719061045.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 19, 2011, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its second quarter 2011 results. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 19, 2011
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
(For Immediate Release)
 
 
 
(July 19, 2011)UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) today reported second quarter results, highlighted by continuing strong revenue growth from both its UnitedHealthcare and Optum businesses. Second quarter 2011 net earnings were $1.16 per share, and all key performance metrics were again in line with or better than Company expectations.
MINNEAPOLIS
Stephen J. Hemsley, president and chief executive officer of UnitedHealth Group, said, "We draw on competencies in clinical insight, advanced technology and health information management to achieve a range of solutions for a diversity of customers and market segments through our UnitedHealthcare and Optum businesses. We are achieving strong and consistent growth as customers respond to our focus on consistent fundamental execution and solutions-oriented innovation around their needs."
The Company updated its full year financial outlook based on second quarter results and business trends, and now forecasts 2011 revenues of $101 billion, net earnings in the range of $4.15 to $4.25 per share and cash flows from operations of more than $6 billion. Each of these has been increased from the previous outlook.
 
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealth Group  Continued
 
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealthcare provides network-based health care benefits for a full spectrum of customers in the health benefits market. UnitedHealthcare serves employers ranging from sole proprietorships to large, multi-site and national employers, as well as students and individuals, delivers health and well-being benefits to Medicare beneficiaries and retirees, and manages health care benefit programs on behalf of state Medicaid and community programs and their participants.
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealthcare Business Results  Continued
UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual
 
 
UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement
 
 
 
 
UnitedHealthcare Community & State
 
 
Optum is an information and technology-enabled health services business serving the broad health care marketplace, including payers, care providers, employers, life sciences companies and consumers. By helping connect and align health system participants and providing them actionable intelligence at the points of decision-making, Optum helps improve overall health system performance: optimizing care quality, reducing costs and improving the consumer experience. Optum is organized in three segments: OptumHealth focuses on health management and wellness, clinical services and financial services; OptumInsight delivers technology, intelligence, consulting and business outsourcing solutions; and OptumRx specializes in pharmacy services. The breadth of this portfolio allows Optum to impact key activities that help enable better integrated, more sustainable health communities.
Quarterly Financial Performance
 
 
 
 
Optum Business Results  Continued
OptumHealth
 
 
 
OptumInsight
 
 
 
OptumRx
 
 
 
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to helping people live healthier lives and making health care work better. With headquarters in Minnetonka, Minn., UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through two distinct platforms: UnitedHealthcare, which provides health care coverage and benefits services; and Optum, which provides information and technology-enabled health services. Through its businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 75 million people worldwide. Visit for more information.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Earnings Conference Call
As previously announced, UnitedHealth Group will discuss the Company's results, strategy and future outlook on a conference call with investors at 8:45 a.m. Eastern time today. UnitedHealth Group will host a live webcast of this conference call from the Investors page of the Company's Web site (). The webcast replay of the call will be available on the same site through August 2, 2011, following the live call. The conference call replay can also be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687, conference ID # 11910011. This earnings release and the Form 8-K dated July 19, 2011 may also be accessed from the Investors page of the Company's Web site.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "should" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions and trends and involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors.
Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: our ability to effectively estimate, price for and manage our medical costs, including the impact of any new coverage requirements; the potential impact that new laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations, or their enforcement or application could have on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows, including as a result of increases in medical, administrative, technology or other costs resulting from federal and state regulations affecting the health care industry; the impact of any potential assessments for insolvent payers under state guaranty fund laws; the ultimate impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations through reduced revenues, increased costs, new taxes and expanded liability, or require changes to the ways in which we conduct business or put us at risk for loss of business; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including potential changes in risk adjustment data validation audit and payment adjustment methodology; potential reductions in revenue received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; failure to comply with restrictions on patient privacy and data security regulations; regulatory and other risks and uncertainties associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; competitive pressures, which could affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share; the potential impact of adverse economic conditions on our
 
revenues (including decreases in enrollment resulting from increases in the unemployment rate and commercial attrition) and results of operations; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service professionals; our ability to attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent third party brokers, consultants and agents; events that may negatively affect our contracts with AARP; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, government investigations, audits or reviews; the performance of our investment portfolio; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets in connection with dispositions or if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for our existing businesses or the businesses that we acquire; increases in health care costs resulting from large-scale medical emergencies; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems or if our technology products do not operate as intended; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; our ability to obtain sufficient funds from our regulated subsidiaries to fund our obligations; the potential impact of our future cash and capital requirements on our ability to maintain our quarterly dividend payment cycle; failure to complete or receive anticipated benefits of acquisitions; potential downgrades in our credit ratings; and failure to achieve targeted operating cost productivity improvements, including savings resulting from technology enhancement and administrative modernization.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in UnitedHealth Group's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including the cautionary statements in our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
- Consolidated Statements of Operations
- Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
- Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
- Segment Financial Information
- UnitedHealthcare Customer Profile
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


