FILE:UNH/UNH-8K-20110527163059.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 9, 2011, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") approved the Company's 2011 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2011 Plan"), subject to approval by the Company's shareholders at the 2011 Annual Meeting held on May 23, 2011 (the "Annual Meeting"). The Company's shareholders approved the 2011 Plan at the Annual Meeting. The 2011 Plan succeeds the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2002 Plan") and incorporates shares subject to previously granted and outstanding awards under the 2002 Plan.
There are 168,103,375 shares subject to the 2011 Plan, which includes 118,103,375 shares subject to outstanding awards under the 2002 Plan. The Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board (the "Compensation Committee") will determine who receives awards, the types and amounts of awards and the terms and conditions of awards. No new awards may be granted more than ten years after February 9, 2011 but the term of individual awards may extend beyond this date.
A more complete description of the terms of the 2011 Plan can be found in "Proposal No. 4  Approval of UnitedHealth Group 2011 Stock Incentive Plan" (pages 79 through 85) in the Company's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 13, 2011.
On May 24, 2011, the Compensation Committee approved the form of equity award certificates listed as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, 10.4, 10.5, 10.6 and 10.7 pursuant to which directors and executive officers of the Company may receive equity awards under the Company's 2011 Plan.
 
On May 23, 2011, the Company held its Annual Meeting. There were 945,572,758 shares of common stock represented either in person or by proxy at this meeting. The shareholders of the Company voted as follows on the following matters at the annual meeting:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Senior members of the Company's management team will be making a presentation at the Sanford C. Bernstein 27th Annual Strategic Decisions Conference in New York, New York on June 1, 2011 at 9:00 a.m., Eastern Time. The presentation will focus on the Company's business strategy and overall position.
The Company will have an audio webcast from the Investors page of its website at www.unitedhealthgroup.com, and will post a copy of the presentation on the Investors page of its website.
 
The information in this Item 7.01 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 27, 2011
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Award Number:
 
THIS CERTIFIES THAT UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") has on the award date specified above ( the "Award Date") granted to
("Participant") an award (the "Award") to receive that number of restricted stock units (the "Restricted Stock Units") indicated above in the box labeled "Number of Units," each Restricted Stock Unit representing the right to receive one share of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (the "Common Stock"), subject to certain restrictions and on the terms and conditions contained in this Award and the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan").
The Participant acknowledges and agrees that the Company may deliver, by electronic mail, the use of the Internet, including through the website of the agent appointed by the Committee to administer the Plan, the Company intranet web pages or otherwise, any information concerning the Company, this Award, the Plan, pursuant to which the Company granted this Award, and any information required by the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
A copy of the Plan is available upon request. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Award, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.
1. .
Rights of the Participant with Respect to the Restricted Stock Units
(a) . The Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Award do not and shall not entitle Participant to any rights of a shareholder of Common Stock, except as provided below. The rights of Participant with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 2, 3 or 4.
No Shareholder Rights
(b) . No shares of Common Stock shall be issued to Participant prior to the date on which the Restricted Stock Units vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 2, 3 or 4. Neither this Section 1(b) nor any action taken pursuant to or in accordance with this Section 1(b) shall be construed to create a trust of any kind. After any Restricted Stock Units vest pursuant to Section 2, 3 or 4, the Company shall promptly cause to be issued shares of Common Stock to Participant or in the name of Participant's legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be, in payment of such vested whole Restricted Stock Units, at the times provided in Section 2, 3 or 4, as applicable, unless such payment is deferred in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Company's non-qualified compensation deferral plans.
Conversion of Restricted Stock Units; Issuance of Common Stock
(c) . If a cash dividend is declared and paid by the Company with respect to the Common Stock, Participant shall be credited as of the applicable dividend payment date with an additional number of whole and/or fractional Restricted Stock Units (the "Dividend Units") equal to (A) the total cash dividend Participant would have received had Participant's Restricted Stock Units (and any previously credited Dividend Units with respect thereto) been actual shares of Common Stock, divided by (B) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock as of the applicable dividend payment date. As of each vesting date pursuant to Sections 2, 3 or 4, the number of Dividend Units paid on the Restricted Stock Units vesting on such vesting date shall become vested, earned and payable in the form of shares of Common Stock; provided, however, that any vested Dividend Units not converted into a whole share of Common Stock may be converted into a fractional Dividend Unit, cash or carried forward to a future vesting date in accordance with the rules and regulations of agent selected by the Committee to administer the Plan. To the extent Participant's rights to any unvested Restricted Stock Units are forfeited, the Dividend Units paid on such forfeited Restricted Stock Units shall also be forfeited. The terms of this Award certificate shall apply to all Dividend Units paid on the Restricted Stock Units.
Dividends
2. . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Award, % of the Restricted Stock Units shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse, if Participant remains continuously employed by the Company or any Affiliate until the respective vesting dates. Any Restricted Stock Units that vest pursuant to this Section 2 shall be paid to Participant not later than seventy four (74) days after the applicable vesting date.
Vesting
            
                                        
3. . Notwithstanding the other vesting provisions contained in Section 2 and Section 4, but subject to the other terms and conditions set forth herein, all of the Restricted Stock Units shall become immediately and unconditionally vested if, on or within two years after the effective date of a Change in Control, the Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate as a result of a termination of employment (i) by the Participant for Good Reason, (ii) by the Company or any Affiliate without Cause, (iii) at a time when Participant is eligible for Retirement (as defined below), (iv) due to
Early Vesting On Certain Terminations On or After Change in Control
 
Participant's failure to return to work as the result of a long-term disability which renders Participant incapable of performing his or her duties as determined under the provisions of the Company's long-term disability insurance program applicable to Participant ("Disability"), or (v) in the circumstances described in Section 4(c). Any Restricted Stock Units that vest pursuant to this Section 3 shall be paid to Participant in a lump sum within thirty (30) days after the date of Participant's Separation from Service. For purposes of this Award:
(a) "Change in Control" shall mean the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets or any merger, reorganization, or exchange or tender offer which, in each case, will result in a change in the power to elect 50% or more of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company; provided, however, that such a sale, merger or other event must also constitute either (i) a "change in the ownership" of the Company within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v), (ii) a "change in the effective control" of the Company within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vi)(A)(1) (replacing "30 percent" with "50 percent" as used in such regulation), or (iii) a change "in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of the Company within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vii).
(b) "Cause" shall mean Participant's (a) material failure to follow the Company's reasonable direction or to perform any duties reasonably required on material matters, (b) material violation of, or failure to act upon or report known or suspected violations of, the Company's Code of Conduct, as may be amended from time to time, (c) conviction of any felony, (d) commission of any criminal, fraudulent, or dishonest act in connection with Participant's employment, or (e) material breach of any employment agreement between Participant and the Company or any Affiliate, if any. The Company will, within 90 days of discovery of the conduct, give Participant written notice specifying the conduct constituting Cause in reasonable detail and Participant will have 60 days to remedy such conduct, if such conduct is reasonably capable of being remedied. In any instance where the Company may have grounds for Cause, failure by the Company to provide written notice of the grounds for Cause within 90 days of discovery shall be a waiver of its right to assert the subject conduct as a basis for termination for Cause.
(c) "Good Reason" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following without Participant's written consent, in each case, when compared to the arrangements in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Participant will, within 90 days of discovery of such circumstances, give the Company written notice specifying the circumstances constituting Good Reason in reasonable detail; provided however that this notice period shall be shortened or waived to the extent necessary if compliance with the notice period would cause the termination for Good Reason to occur following the second anniversary of the effective date of the Change in Control. Except as contemplated by the preceding sentence, in any instance where Participant may have grounds for Good Reason, failure by Participant to provide written notice of the grounds for Good Reason within 90 days of discovery shall be a waiver of Participant's right to assert the subject circumstance as a basis for termination for Good Reason.
(d) "Separation from Service" shall mean when Participant dies, retires, or otherwise has a termination of employment with the Company that constitutes a "separation from service" within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h)(1), without regard to the optional alternative definitions available thereunder.
(e) . The Committee may provide for payment of the outstanding Restricted Stock Units in accordance with the requirements of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix)(A), (B) or (C) promulgated under Section 409A of the Code (or any similar successor provision), which regulation generally provides that a deferred compensation arrangement may be terminated in limited circumstances following a dissolution or change in control of the Company. If the outstanding Restricted Stock Units are to be so terminated, they shall be deemed fully vested upon such termination.Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or any other agreement to the contrary, there is no discretion to change the time of payment of the Restricted Stock Units (in connection with a Change in Control, similar event, or otherwise) except as expressly provided in this Section 3 or as otherwise permitted under, and would not result in any tax, penalty or interest under, Section 409A of the Code.
Section 409A - Possible Acceleration of Payment
(f) . Notwithstanding any provision of this Award certificate to the contrary, if payment of the Restricted Stock Units is triggered by Participant's Separation from Service as provided in this Section 3 and, as of the date of such Separation from Service, Participant is a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by the Company), Participant shall not be entitled to such payment of the Restricted Stock Units until the earlier of (i) the date which is six (6) months after Participant's Separation from Service for any
Section 409A - Possible Six-Month Delay in Payment
 
reason other than death, or (ii) the date of Participant's death. Any amounts otherwise payable to Participant upon or in the six (6) month period following Participant's Separation from Service that are not so paid by reason of this Section 3(f) shall be paid (without interest) as soon as practicable (and in all events within thirty (30) days) after the date that is six (6) months after Participant's Separation from Service (or, if earlier, as soon as practicable, and in all events within thirty (30) days, after the date of Participant's death). The provisions of this Section 3(f) shall only apply if, and to the extent, required to avoid the imputation of any tax, penalty or interest pursuant to Section 409A of the Code.
4. .
Termination of Employment
(a) . Except as expressly provided in Section 3 or this Section 4, if, prior to vesting of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 2, Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate for any reason (voluntary or involuntary), and does not continue after such cessation of service to be either an employee of the Company or any Affiliate, then Participant's rights to all of the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited on the date of termination.
Termination of Employment Generally
(b) . If Participant dies while employed by the Company or any Affiliate, then all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall become immediately vested, and the restrictions with respect to all of the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse, as of the date of such death. Any Restricted Stock Units that vest pursuant to this Section 4(b) shall be paid to Participant's estate not later than 90 days after the date of such death.
Death
(c) . If Participant's employment with the Company or any Affiliate terminates at a time when Participant is not eligible for Retirement (and other than due to Participant's death or Disability) and, in the circumstances, Participant is entitled to severance or separation pay, the following provisions of this Section 4(c) will apply. If Participant is entitled to severance under the Company's severance pay plan as in effect on the date hereof, then the Restricted Stock Units shall continue to vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall continue to lapse, for the period of such severance that Participant is eligible to receive. If Participant is entitled to severance under an employment agreement entered into with the Company, then vesting of the Restricted Stock Units, and lapsing of their restrictions, shall continue for the period of such severance that Participant would be entitled to receive under that agreement as of the date hereof. If Participant is entitled to separation pay other than under the Company's severance pay plan or an employment agreement, then vesting of the Restricted Stock Units, and lapsing of their restrictions, shall continue for the lesser of the period (i) Participant would have received payments under the severance pay plan as in effect on the date hereof, had Participant been eligible for such payments or (ii) of separation pay. In any case, should Participant's severance or separation pay be paid in a lump sum versus bi-weekly payments, the Restricted Stock Units shall continue to vest for the period of time in which severance or separation pay would
Severance
 
have been paid had it been paid bi-weekly. Any Restricted Stock Units that vest pursuant to this Section 4(c) shall be paid to Participant not later than seventy four (74) days after the applicable vesting date of the Restricted Stock Units under the original vesting schedule set forth in Section 2. For avoidance of doubt, any Restricted Stock Units that are unvested on the date of termination of Participant's employment and do not vest under the schedule set forth in Section 2 during the applicable severance or separation pay period identified above in this Section 4(c) shall be forfeited.
(d) . If Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate and either (i) Participant is eligible for Retirement at the time of such termination of employment or (ii) Participant's employment terminates due to Participant's Disability, then the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units shall continue as if such termination of employment had not occurred, subject to provisions set out in the section entitled "Forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units and Shares of Common Stock" below. Any Restricted Stock Units that vest pursuant to this Section 4(d) shall be paid to Participant not later than seventy four (74) days after the applicable vesting date of the Restricted Stock Units under the original vesting schedule set forth in Section 2.
Retirement or Long-Term Disability
(e) For purposes of this Award, "Retirement" means the termination of employment of a Participant who is age 55 or older with at least ten years of Recognized Employment with the Company or any Affiliate other than by reason of (i) death or Disability or (ii) Cause.
(f) For purposes of this Award, "Recognized Employment" shall include only employment since the Participant's most recent date of hire by the Company or any Affiliate, and shall [not] include employment with a company acquired by the Company or any Affiliate before the date of such acquisition.
5. . Participant may not transfer the Restricted Stock Units except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, or pursuant to a domestic relations order as described in the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (or the rules promulgated thereunder). Any attempt to otherwise transfer the Restricted Stock Units shall be void.
Restriction on Transfer
6. . If Participant is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 16a-1 issued thereunder, as such status is reasonably determined from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company (a "Section 16 Officer"), at any time that shares of Common Stock are issued upon the vesting of Restricted Stock Units and the Company has theretofore communicated Participant's status as a Section 16 Officer to Participant, the following special transfer restrictions apply to Participant's Award. One-third (1/3) of the net number of any shares of Common Stock acquired to Participant upon the vesting of Restricted Stock Units at a time when Participant is a Section 16 Officer (including any shares of Common Stock or other securities into which such shares may be converted or exchanged as a result of any adjustment made pursuant to this
Special Restriction on Transfer for Certain Participants
 
Award or Section 7 of the Plan) must be retained, and may not be sold or otherwise transferred, for a period of at least one year following the applicable vesting date. For purposes of this Award, the "net number of any shares of Common Stock acquired" shall mean the number of shares issued upon vesting of Restricted Stock Units after reduction for any shares of Common Stock withheld by or tendered to the Company, or sold on the market, to cover any federal, state, local or other payroll, withholding, income or other applicable tax withholding required in connection with the issuance of the shares. The restrictions of this Section 6 are in addition to, and not in lieu of, the restrictions imposed under other Company policies and applicable laws.
7. . This section sets forth circumstances under which Participant shall forfeit all or a portion of the Restricted Stock Units, or be required to repay the Company for the value realized in respect of all or a portion of the Restricted Stock Units.
Forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units and Shares of Common Stock
(a) . If Participant violates any provision of the Restrictive Covenants set forth in Section 8 below, then any unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited without any payment therefor. In addition, for any Restricted Stock Units that vested within one year prior to Participant's termination of employment with the Company or any Affiliate or at any time after such termination of employment, the Participant shall be required, upon demand, to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company (including by forfeiting any deferred compensation credits in respect of such Restricted Stock Units under the Company's non-qualified compensation deferral plans) an amount having a value equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock underlying such Restricted Stock Units on the date the Restricted Stock Units became vested.
Violation of Restrictive Covenants
(b) . If the Board determines that Participant has engaged in fraud that, in whole or in part, caused the need for a material restatement of the Company's consolidated financial statements, then any Restricted Stock Units that have not yet been settled in shares of Common Stock (including any deferred compensation credits under the Company's non-qualified compensation deferral plans in respect of Restricted Stock Units that have previously become vested) shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited without any payment therefore. In addition, for any Restricted Stock Units that became vested during the 12-month period following the first public issuance or filing with the Securities Exchange Commission (whichever occurs first) of the incorrect financial statements, Participant shall be required, upon demand, to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company (including by forfeiting any deferred compensation credits in respect of such Restricted Stock Units under the Company's non-qualified compensation deferral plans) an amount having a value equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock underlying such Restricted Stock Units on the date the Restricted Stock Units became vested.
Fraud
(c) . This section does not constitute the Company's exclusive remedy for Participant's violation of the Restrictive Covenants or commission of fraudulent conduct. As the forfeiture and repayment provisions are not adequate
In General
 
remedies at law, the Company may seek any additional legal or equitable remedy, including injunctive relief, for any such violations. The provisions in this section are essential economic conditions to the Company's grant of Restricted Stock Units to Participant. By receiving the grant of Restricted Stock Units hereunder, Participant agrees that the Company may deduct from any amounts it owes Participant from time to time (such as wages or other compensation, deferred compensation credits, vacation pay, any severance or other payments owed following a termination of employment, as well as any other amounts owed to the Participant by the Company) to the extent of any amounts Participant owes the Company under this section. The provisions of this section and any amounts repayable by Participant hereunder are intended to be in addition to any rights to repayment the Company may have under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable law.
8. . In consideration of the terms of this Award and the Company's sharing of Confidential Information with the Participant, Participant agrees to the Restrictive Covenants set forth below. For purposes of the Restrictive Covenants, the "Company" means UnitedHealth Group and all of its subsidiaries and other affiliates.
Restrictive Covenants
(a) . Participant has or will be given access to and provided with sensitive, confidential, proprietary and/or trade secret information (collectively, "Confidential Information") in the course of Participant's employment. Examples of Confidential Information include inventions, new product or marketing plans, business strategies and plans, merger and acquisition targets, financial and pricing information, computer programs, source codes, models and data bases, analytical models, customer lists and information, and supplier and vendor lists and other information which is not generally available to the public. Participant agrees not to disclose or use Confidential Information, either during or after Participant's employment with the Company, except as necessary to perform Participant's duties or as the Company may consent in writing.
Confidential Information
(b) . During Participant's employment and for two years after the later of (i) the termination of Participant's employment for any reason whatsoever or (ii) the last scheduled vesting date under Section 4, Participant may not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:
Non-Solicitation
 
 
 
 
 
(c) .During Participant's employment and for one year after the later of (i) the termination of Participant's employment for any reason whatsoever or (ii) the last scheduled vesting date under Section 4, Participant may not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:
Non-Competition
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section 8(c) will apply to the extent permissible under the ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct's provisions regarding restrictions on the right to practice law or any applicable state counterpart.
(d) Because the Company's business competes on a nationwide basis, the Participant's obligations under this "Restrictive Covenants" section shall apply on a nationwide basis anywhere in the United States.
(e) To the extent Participant and the Company agree at any time to enter into separate agreements containing restrictive covenants with different or inconsistent
 
terms than those contained herein, Participant and the Company acknowledge and agree that such different or inconsistent terms shall not in any way affect or have relevance to the Restrictive Covenants contained herein.
By accepting this Restricted Stock Unit Award, Participant agrees that the provisions of this Restrictive Covenants section are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company.
9. . In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Common Stock or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affecting the Common Stock would be reasonably likely to result in the diminution or enlargement of any of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Award (including, without limitation, the benefits or potential benefits of provisions relating to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units), the Committee shall, in such manner as it shall deem equitable or appropriate in order to prevent such diminution or enlargement of any such benefits or potential benefits, make adjustments to the Award, including adjustments in the number and type of shares of Common Stock Participant would have received upon vesting of the Restricted Stock Units.
Adjustments to Restricted Stock Units
10. .
Tax Matters
(a) In order to comply with all applicable federal, state and local tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state and local payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are the sole and absolute responsibility of Participant, are withheld or collected from Participant.
(b) On each applicable vesting date, Participant will be deemed to have elected to satisfy Participant's minimum required federal, state, and local payroll, withholding, income or other tax withholding obligations arising from the receipt of shares or the lapse of restrictions relating to the Restricted Stock Units, by having the Company withhold a portion of the shares of Common Stock otherwise to be delivered having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes (but only to the extent of the minimum amount required to be withheld under applicable laws or regulations).
11. .
Miscellaneous
(a) This Award does not confer on Participant any right to continued employment or any other relationship with the Company or any Affiliate, nor will it interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate Participant at any time. Participant's employment with the Company is at will.
(b) Neither the Plan nor this Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company
 
or any Affiliate and Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.
(c) The Company shall not be required to deliver any shares of Common Stock upon the vesting of any Restricted Stock Units until the requirements of any federal or state securities laws, rules or regulations or other laws or rules (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable have been and continue to be satisfied (including an effective registration of the shares under federal and state securities laws).
(d) An original record of this Award and all the terms hereof, executed by the Company, is held on file by the Company. To the extent there is any conflict between the terms contained in this Award and the terms contained in the original held by the Company, the terms of the original held by the Company shall control.
(e) If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this Award is invalid or overbroad, Participant agrees that the court or arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other provisions of this Award should be unaffected.
(f) Participant agrees that (i) legal remedies (money damages) for any breach of the Restrictive Covenants in Section 8 will be inadequate, (ii) the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable harm from any such breach, and (iii) the Company will be entitled to injunctive relief from a court in addition to any legal remedies the Company may seek in arbitration.
(g) The Restrictive Covenants in this Award and the provisions regarding the forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units and shares of Common Stock shall survive termination of the Restricted Stock Units.
(h) The validity, construction and effect of this Award and any rules and regulations relating to this Award shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota (without regard to its conflict of law principles).
(i) It is intended that this Award and any amounts payable under this Award shall either be exempt from or comply with Section 409A of the Code (including the Treasury regulations and other published guidance relating thereto) so as not to subject Participant to payment of any additional tax, penalty or interest imposed under Section 409A of the Code. The provisions of this Award certificate shall be construed and interpreted to avoid the imputation of any such additional tax, penalty or interest under Section 409A of the Code yet preserve (to the nearest extent reasonably possible) the intended benefit payable to Participant.
 

Exhibit 10.2
Award Number:
 
THIS CERTIFIES THAT UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") has on the award date specified above (the "Award Date") granted to
(the "Optionee") the option (the "Option") to purchase that number of shares of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (the "Common Stock"), indicated above (the "Option Shares"). The Option that this Award represents will expire on the expiration date indicated above (the "Expiration Date"), unless it is terminated prior to that time in accordance with this Award.
The Option Shares represented by this Award shall become exercisable as follows: , unless this Option shall have terminated or the vesting shall have accelerated as provided in this Award. Once this Option has become exercisable for all or a portion of the Option Shares, it will remain exercisable for all or such portion of the Option Shares, as the case may be, until the Option expires or is terminated as provided in this Award.
                    
By accepting this Award, the Optionee acknowledges that the Optionee will not have any of the rights of a shareholder with respect to the Option Shares until the Optionee has duly exercised the Option and paid the exercise price indicated above (the "Exercise Price") and applicable withholding taxes in accordance with this Award. The Optionee further acknowledges and agrees that the Company may deliver, by electronic mail, the use of the Internet, including through the website of the agent appointed by the Committee to administer the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), the Company intranet web pages or otherwise, any information concerning the Company, this Award, the Plan pursuant to which the Company granted this Award, and any information required by the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
This Option is subject to the further terms and conditions set forth below and to the terms of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon request. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Award, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.
1. . The Company does not intend that the Option shall be an Incentive Stock Option governed by the provisions of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Nonqualified Option
2. . The Option shall terminate on the Expiration Date. The Option shall terminate prior to the Expiration Date if the Optionee ceases to be employed by the Company or any Affiliate, except that:
Termination of Option
(a) . Except as expressly provided in Section 10 or this Section 2, if prior to vesting of the Options as set forth herein, the Optionee ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate for any reason (voluntary or involuntary), then the Optionee may, at any time within the Exercise Period (as defined below), exercise the Option to the extent of the full number of Option Shares which were exercisable and which the Optionee was entitled to purchase under the Option on the date of the termination of his or her employment.
General
(b) . If the Optionee dies while employed by the Company or any Affiliate, or if the Optionee's employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated due to the Optionee's failure to return to work as the result of a long-term disability which renders the Optionee incapable of performing his or her duties as determined under the provisions of the Company's long-term disability insurance program ("Disability"), then: (i) all unvested Option Shares hereunder shall immediately vest and be exercisable, and (ii) the Optionee (or the Optionee's personal representatives, administrators or guardians, as applicable, or any person or persons to whom the Option is transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution) may (subject to earlier expiration on the Expiration Date) at any time within a period of five years after the Optionee's death or Disability, or for such other longer period established at the discretion of the Committee, exercise the Option to the extent of the full number of Option Shares which are exercisable following such vesting.
Death or Long-Term Disability
(c) . Subject to Section 10, if Optionee's employment with the Company or any Affiliate terminates at a time when Optionee is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below) and, in the circumstances, Optionee is entitled to severance or separation pay, the following provisions will apply. If the Optionee is entitled to severance under the Company's severance pay plan as in effect on the date hereof and the Optionee is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below) at the time of termination of employment, then the Option shall continue to vest and become exercisable for the period of such severance. If Optionee is entitled to severance under an employment agreement entered into with the Company, then the Option shall continue to vest and become exercisable for the period of such severance that Optionee is entitled to receive as of the date hereof. If the Optionee is entitled to separation pay under the Company's severance pay plan, then vesting of the Option shall continue for the lesser of the period (i) the Optionee would have received payments under the severance pay plan as in effect on the date hereof, had the Optionee been eligible for such payments; or (ii) of separation pay. In either case, should the Optionee be paid in a lump sum versus bi-weekly payments, the Option shall continue to vest for the time in which severance or separation pay would have been paid had it been paid bi-weekly. Any portion of the Option that vests after the Optionee's termination of employment pursuant to this Section 2(c) may be exercised during the Exercise Period (as defined below). For avoidance of
Severance
 
doubt, any Options that are unvested on the date of termination of Optionee's employment and do not vest under the schedule set forth herein during the applicable severance or separation pay period identified above in this Section 2(c) shall be forfeited.
(d) . If the Optionee's employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated and at the time of termination the Optionee is eligible for Retirement, then (i) the Option shall continue to vest and become exercisable as if such termination of employment had not occurred and (ii) the Optionee may, at any time within the shorter of (1) the Expiration Date of the Option, or (2) a period of five years after such termination of employment or for such other longer period established at the discretion of the Committee, exercise the Option to the extent of the full number of Option Shares which are then exercisable.
Retirement
(e) For the purposes of this Award, "Exercise Period" shall mean the greater of: (i) a period of three months after the date of termination of the Optionee's employment; (ii) a period of three months after vesting ceases as provided in Section 2(c) if Optionee receives severance or separation pay; or (iii) such other longer period established at the discretion of the Committee. This Option shall in no event be exercisable after the Expiration Date.
(f) For purposes of this Award, "Retirement" means the termination of employment of an Optionee who is age 55 or older with at least ten years of Recognized Employment with the Company or any Affiliate other than by reason of (i) death or Disability or (ii) Cause.
(g) For purposes of this Award, "Recognized Employment" shall include only employment since the Optionee's most recent date of hire by the Company or any Affiliate, and shall [not] include employment with a company acquired by UnitedHealth Group or any Affiliate before the date of such acquisition.
3. . This section sets forth circumstances under which the Optionee shall forfeit all or a portion of the Options, or be required to repay the Company for the value realized in respect of all or a portion of the Options.
Forfeiture of Option and Shares
(a) . If the Optionee violates any provision of the Restrictive Covenants in Section 4 of this Award, then any (i) unvested Options and (ii) Options that vested within one year prior to the Optionee's termination of employment with the Company or any Affiliate or at any time after such termination of employment and that have not been exercised shall be immediately cancelled and rendered null and void without any payment therefor (the "Forfeited Options"). If any such Forfeited Options have been exercised prior to the Optionee's violation of the Restrictive Covenants, the Optionee shall be required to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company, upon demand, an amount in cash or Common Stock having a value equal to the amount described in this Section 3(a) below.
Violation of Restrictive Covenants
To the extent that such Option Shares have been sold, the amount shall be the aggregate proceeds received from such sale of the net Option Shares acquired after payment of the Exercise Price and any applicable taxes ("Net Option Shares") . To the extent that the Net Option Shares have not been sold at the time Company demand is made, the amount shall be the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Net Option Shares on the date the Forfeited Options were exercised.
 
(b) . If the Board determines that the Optionee has engaged in fraud that, in whole or in part, caused the need for a material restatement of the Company's consolidated financial statements, then any vested and unvested Options then held by the Optionee shall be immediately cancelled and rendered null and void without any payment therefor. In addition, for any Options that were exercised during the 12-month period following the first public issuance or filing with the Securities Exchange Commission (whichever occurs first) of the incorrect financial statements (the "Covered Options"), the Optionee shall be required to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company, upon demand, an amount in cash or Common Stock having a value equal to the amount described in this Section 3(b) below, depending on whether the Optionee still holds the Option Shares acquired upon exercise of the Covered Options.
Fraud
To the extent that such Option Shares have been sold, the amount shall be the aggregate proceeds received from such sale of the Net Option Shares. To the extent that the Net Option Shares have not been sold at the time Company demand is made, the amount shall be the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Net Option Shares on the date the Covered Options were exercised.
(c) . This section does not constitute the Company's exclusive remedy for the Optionee's violation of the Restrictive Covenants or commission of fraudulent conduct. As the forfeiture and repayment provisions are not adequate remedies at law, the Company may seek any additional legal or equitable remedy, including injunctive relief, for any such violations. The provisions in this section are essential economic conditions to the Company's grant of Options to the Optionee. By receiving the grant of Options hereunder, the Optionee agrees that the Company may deduct from any amounts it owes the Optionee from time to time (such as wages or other compensation, deferred compensation credits, vacation pay, any severance or other payments owed following a termination of employment, as well as any other amounts owed to the Optionee by the Company) to the extent of any amounts the Optionee owes the Company under this section. The provisions of this section and any amounts repayable by the Optionee hereunder are intended to be in addition to any rights to repayment the Company may have under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable law.
In General
4. . In consideration of the terms of this Award and the Company's sharing of Confidential Information with the Optionee, the Optionee agrees to the Restrictive Covenants set forth below. For purposes of these Restrictive Covenants, the "Company" means UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and all of any Affiliate and other affiliates.
Restrictive Covenants
(a) . The Optionee will be given access to and provided with sensitive, confidential, proprietary and trade secret information ("Confidential Information") in the course of the Optionee's employment. Examples of Confidential Information include: inventions; new product or marketing plans; business strategies and plans; merger and acquisition targets; financial and pricing information; computer programs, source codes, models and
Confidential Information
 
databases; analytical models; customer lists and information; and supplier and vendor lists and other information which is not generally available to the public. The Optionee agrees not to disclose or use Confidential Information, either during or after the Optionee's employment with the Company, except as necessary to perform the Optionee's duties or as the Company may consent in writing.
(b) During the Optionee's employment and for the greater of two years after the termination of the Optionee's employment for any reason whatsoever, or the period of time for which the Option remains exercisable, the Optionee may not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for the Optionee or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:
Non-Solicitation.
 
 
 
 
 
(c) .During the Optionee's employment and for the greater of one year after the termination of the Optionee's employment for any reason whatsoever or the period of time for which the Option remains exercisable, the Optionee may not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for the Optionee or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:
Non-Competition
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section 4(c) will apply to the extent permissible under the ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct's provisions regarding restrictions on the right to practice law or any applicable state counterpart.
(d) Because the Company's business competes on a nationwide basis, the Optionee's obligations under this "Restrictive Covenants" section shall apply on a nationwide basis anywhere in the United States.
(e) To the extent Optionee and the Company agree at any time to enter into separate agreements containing restrictive covenants with different or inconsistent terms than those contained herein, Optionee and the Company acknowledge and agree that such different or inconsistent terms shall not in any way affect or have relevance to the Restrictive Covenants contained herein.
By accepting this Option, the Optionee agrees that the provisions of this Restrictive Covenants section are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company.
5. . On the terms set forth herein, the Option may be exercised by the Optionee in whole or in part from time to time by delivering notice of exercise (in a form and manner acceptable to the Company) to the Company or the Committee's designated agent, accompanied by payment of the Exercise Price and any applicable withholding taxes (i) in cash, by wire transfer, certified check or bank cashier's check payable to the Company, (ii) by delivery of shares of Common Stock already owned by the Optionee, (iii) by withholding shares of Common Stock from the total number of shares of Common Stock acquired upon exercise under this Award having a fair market value, on the exercise date, equal to the aggregate Exercise Price and any applicable withholding taxes, or (iv) by delivery of a combination of cash, withholding of shares of Common Stock acquired upon exercise of this Award, and/or delivery of shares of Common Stock already owned by the Optionee; provided, that the Optionee shall not be entitled to tender shares of Common Stock pursuant to successive, substantially simultaneous exercises of options to purchase Common Stock. Any shares already owned by the Optionee referred to in the preceding sentence must have been owned by the Optionee for no less than six months prior to the date of exercise of the Option if such shares were acquired upon the exercise of another option or upon the vesting of restricted stock or restricted stock units. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award, the Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any shares
Manner of Exercise
 
of Common Stock upon exercise of any Option until the requirements of any federal or state securities laws, rules or regulations or other laws or rules (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable have been and continue to be satisfied (including an effective registration of the shares under federal and state securities laws).
6. . This Award does not confer on the Optionee any right to continued employment or any other relationship with the Company or any Affiliate, nor will it interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate Optionee at any time. Optionee's employment with the Company is at will.
No Guarantee of Employment
7. . During the Optionee's lifetime, only the Optionee can exercise the Option. The Optionee may not transfer the Option except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, or pursuant to a domestic relations order as described in the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (or the rules promulgated thereunder), to the extent provided in Section 2 (b) entitled "Termination of Option." Any attempt to otherwise transfer the Option shall be void.
No Transfer
8. . If the Optionee is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 16a-1 issued thereunder, as such status is reasonably determined from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company (a "Section 16 Officer"), at any time that the Option is exercised in whole or in part and the Company has theretofore communicated the Optionee's status as a Section 16 Officer to the Optionee, the following special transfer restrictions apply to any shares of Common Stock acquired upon the exercise of the Option. One-third (1/3) of the net number of any shares of Common Stock acquired upon the exercise of the Option at a time when the Optionee is a Section 16 Officer (including any shares of Common Stock or other securities subject to the Option following any adjustment made pursuant to this Option or Section 7 of the Plan) must be retained, and may not be sold or otherwise transferred, for a period of at least one year following the date the Option is exercised. For purposes of this Option, the "net number of any shares of Common Stock acquired" shall mean the number of shares of Common Stock received with respect to the particular exercise after reduction for any shares of Common Stock withheld by or tendered to the Company, or sold on the market, to cover the Exercise Price of the Option and/or to cover any federal, state, local or other payroll, withholding, income or other applicable tax withholding required in connection with the exercise of the Option. The restrictions of this Section 8 are in addition to, and not in lieu of, the restrictions imposed under other Company policies and applicable laws.
Special Restriction on Transfer for Certain Optionees
9. . In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Shares or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affecting the Shares would be reasonably likely to result in the diminution or enlargement of any of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Option (including, without limitation, the benefits or potential benefits of provisions relating to the term, vesting or exercisability of the Option), the Committee shall, in such manner as it shall
Adjustments to Option Shares
 
deem equitable or appropriate in order to prevent such diminution or enlargement of any such benefits or potential benefits, adjust any or all of (a) the number and type of shares (or other securities or other property) subject to the Option and (b) the exercise price with respect to the Option; provided, however, that the number of shares covered by the Option shall always be a whole number. Without limiting the foregoing, if any capital reorganization or reclassification of the capital stock of the Company, or consolidation or merger of the Company with another entity, or the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets to another entity, shall be effected in such a way that holders of the Company's Common Stock shall be entitled to receive stock, securities, cash or other assets with respect to or in exchange for such shares, the Optionee shall have the right to purchase and receive upon the basis and upon the terms and conditions specified in this Award and in lieu of the shares of Common Stock of the Company immediately theretofore purchasable and receivable upon the exercise of the Option, with appropriate adjustments to prevent diminution or enlargement of benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Option, such shares of stock, other securities, cash or other assets as would have been issued or delivered to the Optionee if the Optionee had exercised the Option and had received such shares of Common Stock prior to such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale. The Company shall not effect any such reorganization, consolidation, merger or sale unless prior to the consummation thereof the successor entity (if other than the Company) resulting from such reorganization, consolidation or merger or the entity purchasing such assets shall assume by written instrument the obligation to deliver to the Optionee such shares of stock, securities, cash or other assets as, in accordance with the foregoing provisions, the Optionee may be entitled to purchase or receive.
10. . Notwithstanding the other vesting provisions set forth herein, but subject to the other terms and conditions set forth herein, the Option shall become fully vested and exercisable if, on or within two years after the effective date of a Change in Control, the Optionee ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate as a result of a termination of employment (i) by the Optionee for Good Reason, (ii) by the Company or any Affiliate without Cause, (iii) at a time when Optionee is eligible for Retirement, (iv) due to Optionee's Disability, or (v) in the circumstances described in Section 2(c). For purposes of this Award:
Certain Terminations on or After Change in Control
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Optionee will, within 90 days of discovery of such circumstances, give the Company written notice specifying the circumstances constituting Good Reason in reasonable detail; provided however that this notice period shall be shortened or waived to the extent necessary if compliance with the notice period would cause the termination for Good Reason to occur following the second anniversary of the effective date of the Change in Control. Except as contemplated by the preceding sentence, in any instance where Optionee may have grounds for Good Reason, failure by Optionee to provide written notice of the grounds for Good Reason within 90 days of discovery shall be a waiver of Optionee's right to assert the subject circumstance as a basis for termination for Good Reason.
11. . If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this Award is invalid or overbroad, the Optionee agrees that the court or arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other provisions of this Award should be unaffected.
Narrowed Enforcement and Severability
12. . The Optionee agrees that (a) legal remedies (money damages) for any breach of the Restrictive Covenants in Section 4 of this Award will be inadequate, (b) the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable harm from any such breach, and (c) the Company will be entitled to injunctive relief from a court in addition to any legal remedies the Company may seek in arbitration.
Injunctive Relief
 
13. . The Restrictive Covenants and provisions regarding the forfeiture of Options and shares in this Award shall survive the termination of the Option.
Survival
14. . An original record of this Award and all the terms thereof is held on file by the Company. To the extent there is any conflict between the terms contained in this Award and the terms contained in the original held by the Company, the terms of the original held by the Company shall control. Neither the Plan nor the Option shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Affiliate and Optionee or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Option, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.
Other
15. . The validity, construction and effect of this Award and any rules and regulations relating to this Award shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota (without regard to its conflict of laws principles).
Governing Law
16. . It is intended that this Award and any amounts payable under this Award shall either be exempt from or comply with Code Section 409A (including the Treasury regulations and other published guidance relating thereto) so as not to subject Optionee to payment of any additional tax, penalty or interest imposed under Code Section 409A. The provisions of this Award certificate shall be construed and interpreted to avoid the imputation of any such additional tax, penalty or interest under Code Section 409A yet preserve (to the nearest extent reasonably possible) the intended benefit payable to Optionee.
Code Section 409A
 

Exhibit 10.3
Award Number:
 
THIS CERTIFIES THAT UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") has on the award date specified above (the "Award Date") granted to
("Participant") an award (the "Award") to be eligible to receive a number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock units (the "Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units"), the target number of which is indicated above in the box labeled "Target Number of Performance-Based Units," each Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit representing the right to receive one share of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (the "Common Stock"), subject to certain restrictions and on the terms and conditions contained in this Award and the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan").
The Participant acknowledges and agrees that the Company may deliver, by electronic mail, the use of the Internet, including through the website of the agent appointed by the Committee to administer the Plan, the Company intranet web pages or otherwise, any information concerning the Company, this Award, the Plan pursuant to which the Company granted this Award, and any information required by the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
A copy of the Plan is available upon request. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Award, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan. This Award is intended to qualify as "qualified performance-based compensation" as described in Section 162(m)(4) of the Code.
1. .
Rights of the Participant with Respect to the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units
(a) . The Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Award do not and shall not entitle Participant to any rights
No Shareholder Rights
of a shareholder of Common Stock. The rights of Participant with respect to the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 2, 3 or 4.
(b) . No shares of Common Stock shall be issued to Participant prior to the date on which the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 2, 3 or 4. Neither this Section 1(b) nor any action taken pursuant to or in accordance with this Section 1(b) shall be construed to create a trust of any kind. After any Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units vest pursuant to Section 2, 3 or 4, the Company shall promptly cause to be issued shares of Common Stock to Participant or in the name of Participant's legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be, in payment of such vested whole Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units, such shares of Common Stock shall be issued promptly, and in any event, no later than March 15
Conversion of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units; Issuance of Common Stock
th
of the year following the year in which the vesting event occurs (which payment schedule is intended to comply with the "short-term deferral" exemption from the application of Section 409A of the Code), unless such payment is deferred in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Company's non-qualified compensation deferral plans.
2. . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Award, including without limitation the terms set forth in Attachment 1, the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall vest and the restrictions with respect to the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall lapse (i) if Participant has remained continuously employed with the Company or any Affiliate from the Award Date through and including the end of the Performance Period, and (ii) if and to the extent the Performance Vesting Criteria described in Attachment 1 have been achieved during the Performance Period. Regardless of whether Participant meets the continuous employment or service criterion described in subpart (i) of this Section 2, if and to the extent the Performance Vesting Criteria have not been achieved by the end of the Performance Period, the Participant's rights to the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited on that date. The Committee will determine in its sole discretion and certify in accordance with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code the extent, if any, to which the Performance Vesting Criteria have been met, and it will retain sole discretion to reduce the number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that would otherwise vest as a result of the performance measured against the Performance Vesting Criteria. The Committee may not increase the number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that may vest as a result of the performance as measured against the Performance Vesting Criteria. Any vesting that may occur pursuant to this Section 2 will be effective on the date on which the Committee has certified the extent to which the Performance Vesting Criteria in subpart (ii) of this Section 2 were satisfied.
Vesting
3. . Notwithstanding the other vesting provisions contained in Section 2, but subject to the other terms and conditions set forth herein, upon the effective date of a Change in Control, then the Target Number of
Early Vesting Upon Change in Control
 
Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units described in this Award will become immediately and unconditionally vested, and the restrictions with respect thereto shall lapse. For purposes of this Award, a "Change in Control" shall mean the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets or any merger, reorganization, or exchange or tender offer which, in each case, will result in a change in the power to elect 50% or more of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company; provided, however, that such a sale, merger or other event must also constitute either (i) a "change in the ownership" of the Company within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v), (ii) a "change in the effective control" of the Company within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vi)(A)(1) (replacing "30 percent" with "50 percent" as used in such regulation), or (iii) a change "in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of the Company within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vii).
4. .
Termination of Employment
(a) . Subject to the provisions of this Section 4, if, prior to vesting of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 2 or 3, Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate, for any reason (voluntary or involuntary), then Participant's rights to all of the unvested Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited on the date of termination.
Termination of Employment Generally
(b) . If Participant dies while employed by the Company or any Affiliate, or if Participant's employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated due to Participant's failure to return to work as the result of a long-term disability which renders Participant incapable of performing his or her duties as determined under the provisions of the Company's long-term disability program applicable to Participant ("Disability"), then following the end of the Performance Period, if and to the extent the Committee, in accordance with Section 2 above, determines that the Performance Vesting Criteria has been met, such that some number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units will vest and the restrictions with respect thereto will lapse, Participant will vest in a pro rata number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units, and the restrictions with respect thereto will lapse. Such pro rationing shall be based on the number of full months of the Performance Period that Participant was employed prior to the date of death or termination due to Disability.
Death or Long-Term Disability
(c) . If Participant's employment ends at a time when the Participant is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below) and in connection with that separation from employment the Company pays the Participant severance benefits pursuant to an employment agreement with Participant that is in effect on the date of this Award or pursuant to any Company severance policy, plan or program in effect on the date of this Award, then following the end of the Performance Period, if and to the extent the Committee, in accordance with Section 2 above, determines that the Performance Vesting Criteria has been met, such that some number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units will vest and the restrictions with respect thereto will lapse, Participant will vest in a pro rata number
Severance
 
of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units, and the restrictions with respect thereto will lapse. Such pro rationing shall be based on the number of full months of the Performance Period that Participant was employed prior to the date of termination plus the number of full months during which the Participant is entitled to receive severance benefits under an employment agreement that is in effect on the date of this Award or pursuant to any Company severance policy, plan or program in effect on the date of this Award (provided that in no event shall such sum exceed the number of months in the Performance Period).
(d) . If the Participant's employment ends and at the time of separation from employment the Participant is eligible for Retirement (the "Retirement Date") and at least one year of the Performance Period of this Award is completed at or prior to the Retirement Date, then following the end of the Performance Period, if and to the extent the Committee, in accordance with Section 2 above, determines that the Performance Vesting Criteria has been met, such that some number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units will vest and the restrictions with respect thereto will lapse, Participant will vest in the full number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units and the restrictions with respect thereto will lapse as if the Participant had been continuously employed throughout the entire Performance Period.
Retirement
(e) For purposes of this Award, "Retirement" means the termination of employment of a Participant who is age 55 or older with at least ten years of Recognized Employment with the Company or any Affiliate other than by reason of (i) death or Disability or (ii) Cause.
(f) For purposes of this Award, "Recognized Employment" shall include only employment since the Participant's most recent date of hire by the Company or any Affiliate, and shall [not] include employment with a company acquired by UnitedHealth Group or any Affiliate before the date of such acquisition.
(g) For purposes of this Award, "Cause" shall mean Participant's (a) material failure to follow the Company's reasonable direction or to perform any duties reasonably required on material matters, (b) material violation of, or failure to act upon or report known or suspected violations of, the Company's Code of Conduct, as may be amended from time to time, (c) conviction of any felony, (d) commission of any criminal, fraudulent, or dishonest act in connection with Participant's employment, or (e) material breach of any employment agreement between Participant and the Company or any Affiliate, if any. The Company will, within 90 days of discovery of the conduct, give Participant written notice specifying the conduct constituting Cause in reasonable detail and Participant will have 60 days to remedy such conduct, if such conduct is reasonably capable of being remedied. In any instance where the Company may have grounds for Cause, failure by the Company to provide written notice of the grounds for Cause within 90 days of discovery shall be a waiver of its right to assert the subject conduct as a basis for termination for Cause.
5. . Participant may not transfer the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, or
Restriction on Transfer
 
pursuant to a domestic relations order as described in the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (or the rules promulgated thereunder). Any attempt to otherwise transfer the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall be void.
6. . If Participant is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 16a-1 issued thereunder, as such status is reasonably determined from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company (a "Section 16 Officer"), at any time that shares of Common Stock are issued upon vesting of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units and the Company has theretofore communicated Participant's status as a Section 16 Officer to Participant, the following special transfer restrictions apply to Participant's Award. One-third (
Special Restriction on Transfer for Certain Participants
 
  1
/
3
) of the net number of any shares of Common Stock acquired to Participant upon vesting of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units at a time when Participant is a Section 16 Officer (including any shares of Common Stock or other securities into which such shares may be converted or exchanged as a result of any adjustment made pursuant to this Award or Section 7 of the Plan) must be retained, and may not be sold or otherwise transferred, for a period of at least one year following the issuance date. For purposes of this Award, the "net number of any shares of Common Stock acquired" shall mean the number of shares issued with respect to the Award after reduction for any shares of Common Stock withheld by or tendered to the Company, or sold on the market, to cover any federal, state, local or other payroll, withholding, income or other applicable tax withholding required in connection with the issuance of the shares. The restrictions of this Section 6 are in addition to, and not in lieu of, the restrictions imposed under other Company policies and applicable laws.
7. . This section sets forth circumstances under which Participant shall forfeit all or a portion of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units, or be required to repay the Company for the value realized in respect of all or a portion of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units.
Forfeiture of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units and Shares of Common Stock
(a) . If Participant violates any provision of the Restrictive Covenants set forth in Section 8 below, then any unvested Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited without any payment therefor. In addition, for any Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that did vest, whether before or after Participant's employment terminated, the Participant shall be required, upon demand, to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company (including by forfeiting any deferred compensation credits in respect of such Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units under the Company's non-qualified compensation deferral plans) an amount having a value equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock underlying such Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units on the date the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units became vested.
Violation of Restrictive Covenants
(b) . If the Committee determines that: (i) the Participant has engaged in fraud that, in whole or in part, caused the need for a material restatement of the Company's consolidated financial statements, (ii) the Performance Vesting Criteria were met was based, in whole or in part, on achievement of financial results that
Fraud
 
were restated in connection with the restatement of the Company's consolidated financial statements, and (iii) the number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units in which Participant vested would have been less if that number had been based on the restated consolidated financial statements, then any Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that have not yet been settled in shares of Common Stock (including any deferred compensation credits under the Company's non-qualified compensation deferral plans in respect of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that have previously become vested) shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited without any payment therefore. In addition, for any Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that did vest, Participant shall be required, upon demand, to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company (including by forfeiting any deferred compensation credits in respect of such Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units under the Company's non-qualified compensation deferral plans) an amount having a value equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock underlying such Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units on the date the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units became vested. For the avoidance of doubt, a Participant shall be required to repay the full amount of the aggregate Fair Market Value of any such Common Stock, and not just the amount by which the amount of the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Common Stock underlying the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that vested exceeded the amount of the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Common Stock underlying the number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that would have vested based on the corrected and restated financial results.
(c) . This section does not constitute the Company's exclusive remedy for Participant's violation of the Restrictive Covenants or commission of fraudulent conduct. As the forfeiture and repayment provisions are not adequate remedies at law, the Company may seek any additional legal or equitable remedy, including injunctive relief, for any such violations. The provisions in this section are essential economic conditions to the Company's grant of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units to Participant. By receiving the grant of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units hereunder, Participant agrees that the Company may deduct from any amounts it owes Participant from time to time (such as wages or other compensation, deferred compensation credits, vacation/PTO pay, any severance or other payments owed following a termination of employment, as well as any other amounts owed to the Participant by the Company) to the extent of any amounts Participant owes the Company under this section. The provisions of this section and any amounts repayable by Participant hereunder are intended to be in addition to any rights to repayment the Company may have under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable law.
In General
8. . In consideration of the terms of this Award and the Company's sharing of Confidential Information with the Participant, Participant agrees to the Restrictive Covenants set forth below. For purposes of the Restrictive Covenants, the "Company" means UnitedHealth Group and all of its Affiliates.
Restrictive Covenants
(a) . Participant has or will be given access to and provided with sensitive, confidential, proprietary and/or trade secret information
Confidential Information
 
(collectively, "Confidential Information") in the course of Participant's employment. Examples of Confidential Information include inventions, new product or marketing plans, business strategies and plans, merger and acquisition targets, financial and pricing information, computer programs, source codes, models and data bases, analytical models, customer lists and information, and supplier and vendor lists and other information which is not generally available to the public. Participant agrees not to disclose or use Confidential Information, either during or after Participant's employment with the Company, except as necessary to perform Participant's duties or as the Company may consent in writing.
(b) . During Participant's employment and for two years after the later of (i) the termination of Participant's employment for any reason whatsoever or (ii) the date on which any number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units vests under Sections 2, 3 or 4, Participant may not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:
Non-Solicitation
 
 
 
 
 
(c) .During Participant's employment and for one year after the later of (i) the termination of Participant's employment for any reason whatsoever or (ii) the date on which any number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units vest under Sections 2, 3 or 4, Participant may not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:
Non-Competition
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section 8(c) will apply to the extent permissible under the ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct's provisions regarding restrictions on the right to practice law or any applicable state counterpart.
(d) Because the Company's business competes on a nationwide basis, the Participant's obligations under this "Restrictive Covenants" section shall apply on a nationwide basis anywhere in the United States.
(e) To the extent Participant and the Company agree at any time to enter into separate agreements containing restrictive covenants with different or inconsistent terms than those contained herein, Participant and the Company acknowledge and agree that such different or inconsistent terms shall not in any way affect or have relevance to the Restrictive Covenants contained herein.
By accepting this Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units Award, Participant agrees that the provisions of this Restrictive Covenants section are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company.
9. . In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Common Stock or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affecting the Common Stock would be reasonably likely to result in the diminution or enlargement of any of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Award (including, without limitation, the benefits or potential benefits of provisions relating to the vesting of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units), the Committee shall, in such manner as it shall deem equitable or appropriate in order to prevent such diminution or enlargement of any such benefits or potential benefits, make adjustments to the Award, including adjustments in the number and type of shares of Common Stock Participant would have received upon vesting of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units.
Adjustments to Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units
 
10. .
Tax Matters
(a) In order to comply with all applicable federal or state income tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal or state payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are the sole and absolute responsibility of Participant, are withheld or collected from Participant.
(b) On any pertinent vesting date described in this Award, Participant will be deemed to have elected to satisfy Participant's minimum required federal, state, and local payroll, withholding, income or other tax withholding obligations arising from the receipt of shares or the lapse of restrictions relating to the Performance-based Restricted Stock Units, by having the Company withhold a portion of the shares of Common Stock otherwise to be delivered having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes (but only to the extent of the minimum amount required to be withheld under applicable laws or regulations).
11. .
Miscellaneous
(a) This Award does not confer on Participant any right to continued employment or any other relationship with the Company or any Affiliate, nor will it interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate Participant at any time. Participant's employment with the Company is at will.
(b) Neither the Plan nor this Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.
(c) The Company shall not be required to deliver any shares of Common Stock upon the vesting of any Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units until the requirements of any federal or state securities laws, rules or regulations or other laws or rules (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable have been and continue to be satisfied (including an effective registration of the shares under federal and state securities laws).
(d) An original record of this Award and all the terms hereof, executed by the Company, is held on file by the Company. To the extent there is any conflict between the terms contained in this Award and the terms contained in the original held by the Company, the terms of the original held by the Company shall control.
(e) If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this Award certificate is invalid or overbroad, Participant agrees that the court or arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other provisions of this Award certificate should be unaffected.
 
(f) Participant agrees that (i) legal remedies (money damages) for any breach of the Restrictive Covenants in Section 8 will be inadequate, (ii) the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable harm from any such breach, and (iii) the Company will be entitled to injunctive relief from a court in addition to any legal remedies the Company may seek in arbitration.
(g) The Restrictive Covenants in Section 8 and the provisions regarding the forfeiture of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units and shares of Common Stock shall survive termination of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units.
(h) The validity, construction and effect of this Award and any rules and regulations relating to this Award shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota (without regard to its conflict of law principles).
(i) It is intended that this Award and any amounts payable under this Award shall either be exempt from or comply with Section 409A of the Code (including the Treasury regulations and other published guidance relating thereto) so as not to subject Participant to payment of any additional tax, penalty or interest imposed under Section 409A of the Code. The provisions of this Award certificate shall be construed and interpreted to avoid the imputation of any such additional tax, penalty or interest under Section 409A of the Code yet preserve (to the nearest extent reasonably possible) the intended benefit payable to Participant.
 

Exhibit 10.4
Award Number:
 
THIS CERTIFIES THAT UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") has on the award date specified above (the "Award Date") granted to
("Participant") stock appreciation rights (the "Stock Appreciation Rights") with respect to the number of shares of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (the "Common Stock"), indicated above in the box labeled "Number of Shares" (the "Shares"). The initial value of each Share is indicated above in the box labeled "Grant Price." This Award represents the right to receive, on exercise of this Award, shares of Common Stock (the "Issued Shares") with respect to the Shares as to which the Award has vested (the "Vested Shares") and is being exercised.
The Participant acknowledges and agrees that the Company may deliver, by electronic mail, the use of the Internet, including through the website of the agent appointed by the Committee to administer the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), the Company intranet web pages or otherwise, any information concerning the Company, this Award, the Plan, pursuant to which the Company granted this Award, and any information required by the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
This Award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth below and in the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon request. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Award, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.
1. .
Rights of the Participant with Respect to the Stock Appreciation Rights
(a) . The Stock Appreciation Rights granted pursuant to this Award do not and shall not entitle Participant to any rights of a shareholder of Common Stock
No Shareholder Rights
prior to the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Rights and the receipt of the Issued Shares in accordance with this Award. The rights of Participant with respect to this Award shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date on which such rights become vested in accordance with Section 2, 3 or 4 hereof.
(b) . No shares of Common Stock shall be issued to Participant prior to the date on which the Stock Appreciation Rights are vested in accordance with Sections 2, 3, or 4, and exercised in accordance with Section 5. Upon exercise of the Stock Appreciation Rights, Participant shall be entitled to receive a number of Issued Shares for each Vested Share with respect to which the Stock Appreciation Rights are exercised equal to (i) the excess of the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of exercise over the Grant Price, divided by (ii) the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of exercise. The Issued Shares shall be issued in to Participant or in the name of Participant's legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be. For purposes of this Award, "Fair Market Value" means the closing price of the Shares as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on the last day on which the New York Stock Exchange was open for trading immediately prior to day on which the Stock Appreciation Rights are exercised.
Exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights; Issuance of Common Stock
2. . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Award, the Stock Appreciation Rights shall vest and may be exercised by Participant with respect to % of the Shares on each of the anniversaries of the Award Date if Participant remains continuously employed by the Company or any Affiliate until the respective vesting dates.
Vesting
            
                                        
3. . Notwithstanding the other vesting provisions contained in Section 2 or in Section 4, but subject to the other terms and conditions set forth herein, the Stock Appreciation Rights shall immediately become fully vested and exercisable if, on or within two years after the effective date of a Change in Control, Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate as a result of a termination of employment (i) by the Participant for Good Reason, (ii) by the Company or any Affiliate without Cause, (iii) at a time when Participant is eligible for Retirement (as defined below), (iv) due to Participant's failure to return to work as the result of a long-term disability which renders Participant incapable of performing his or her duties as determined under the provisions of the Company's long-term disability insurance program applicable to Participant ("Disability"), or (v) in the circumstances described in Section 4(c). For purposes of this Award:
Certain Terminations on or After Change in Control
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Participant will, within 90 days of discovery of such circumstances, give the Company written notice specifying the circumstances constituting Good Reason in reasonable detail; provided however that this notice period shall be shortened or waived to the extent necessary if compliance with the notice period would cause the termination for Good Reason to occur following the second anniversary of the effective date of the Change in Control. Except as contemplated by the preceding sentence, in any instance where Participant may have grounds for Good Reason, failure by Participant to provide written notice of the grounds for Good Reason within 90 days of discovery shall be a waiver of Participant's right to assert the subject circumstance as a basis for termination for Good Reason.
4. .
Forfeiture or Early Vesting Upon Termination of Employment
(a) . Except as expressly provided in Section 3 or this Section 4, if Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate for any reason (voluntary or involuntary), then Participant may at any time within the Exercise Period (as defined below) exercise the Stock Appreciation Rights with respect to the Vested Shares on the date of the termination. Participant's Stock Appreciation Rights with respect to any unvested Shares shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited on the date of termination.
Termination of Employment Generally
 
(b) . If Participant dies while employed by the Company or any Affiliate, or if Participant's employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated due to Participant's Disability, then: (i) the Stock Appreciation Rights with respect to any unvested Shares shall immediately vest and be exercisable, and (ii) Participant (or Participant's personal representatives, administrators or guardians, as applicable, or any person or persons to whom the Stock Appreciation Rights are transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution) may, subject to Section 8, at any time within the shorter of (1) the Expiration Date of the Award or (2) a period of five years after the Participant's death or Disability, or for such other longer period established at the discretion of the Committee, exercise the Stock Appreciation Rights to the extent of the full number of Vested Shares.
Death or Long-Term Disability
(c) . Subject to Section 3, if Participant's employment with the Company or any Affiliate terminates at a time when Participant is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below) and, in the circumstances, Participant is entitled to severance or separation pay, the following provisions will apply. If Participant is entitled to severance under the Company's severance pay plan as in effect on the date hereof and the Participant is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below) at the time of termination of employment, then the Stock Appreciation Rights shall continue to vest and become exercisable for the period of such severance that Participant is eligible to receive. If Participant is entitled to severance under an employment agreement entered into with the Company, then the Stock Appreciation Rights shall continue to vest and become exercisable for the period of such severance that Participant would be entitled to receive under the agreement as of the date hereof. If Participant is entitled to separation pay other than under the Company's severance pay plan or an employment agreement, then the Stock Appreciation Rights shall continue to vest and become exercisable for the lesser of the period (i) Participant would have received payments under the severance pay plan as in effect on the date hereof, had Participant been eligible for such payments or (ii) of separation pay. In either case, should Participant be paid in a lump sum versus bi-weekly payments, the Stock Appreciation Rights shall continue to vest and become exercisable for the period of time in which severance or separation pay would have been paid had it been paid bi-weekly. Any Stock Appreciation Rights that vest after Participant's termination of employment pursuant to this Section 4(c) may be exercised during the Exercise Period (as defined below). For avoidance of doubt, any Stock Appreciation Rights that are unvested on the date of termination of Participant's employment and do not vest under the schedule set forth in Section 2 during the applicable severance or separation pay period identified above in this Section 4(c) shall be forfeited.
Severance
(d) . If the Participant's employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated and at the time of termination the Participant is eligible for Retirement, then (i) the Stock Appreciation Rights shall continue to vest and become exercisable as if such termination of employment had not occurred and (ii) the Participant may, at any time within the shorter of (1) the Expiration Date of the Award or (2) a period of five years after such termination of employment by reason of the Participant's Retirement or for such other longer period established at the discretion of the Committee, exercise the Stock Appreciation Rights to the extent of the full number of Vested Shares which are then exercisable.
Retirement
(e) For purposes of this Award, "Exercise Period" means the greater of (i) a period of three months after the date of termination of Participant's employment, (ii) if Participant is
 
entitled to severance or separation pay, a period of three months after vesting ceases as provided in Section 4(c), or (iii) such other longer period established at the discretion of the Committee. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Stock Appreciation Rights shall in no event be exercisable to any extent or by any Person after the Expiration Date.
(f) For purposes of this Award, "Retirement" means the termination of employment of a Participant who is age 55 or older with at least ten years of Recognized Employment with the Company or any Affiliate other than by reason of (i) death or Disability or (ii) Cause.
(g) For purposes of this Award, "Recognized Employment" shall include only employment since the Participant's most recent date of hire by the Company or any Affiliate, and shall [not] include employment with a company acquired by UnitedHealth Group or any Affiliate before the date of such acquisition.
5. . The Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised with respect to Vested Shares by delivery to the Company of a notice (in a form and manner acceptable to the Company) which shall state that Participant elects to exercise the Stock Appreciation Rights as to the number of Vested Shares specified in the notice as of the date specified in the notice.
Method of Exercise
6. . During Participant's lifetime, the Stock Appreciation Rights shall be exercisable only by Participant. Participant may not transfer the Stock Appreciation Rights except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, or pursuant to a domestic relations order as described in the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (or the rules promulgated thereunder). Any attempt to otherwise transfer the Stock Appreciation Rights shall be void.
Restriction on Transfer
7. . If Participant is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 16a-1 issued thereunder, as such status is reasonably determined from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company (a "Section 16 Officer"), at any time that the Stock Appreciation Rights are exercised in whole or in part and the Company has theretofore communicated Participant's status as a Section 16 Officer to Participant, the following special transfer restrictions apply to any shares of Common Stock acquired upon the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Rights. One-third (1/3) of the net number of any shares of Common Stock acquired upon the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Rights at a time when Participant is a Section 16 Officer (including any shares of Common Stock or other securities subject to the Stock Appreciation Rights following any adjustment made pursuant to this Award or Section 7 of the Plan) must be retained, and may not be sold or otherwise transferred, for a period of at least one year following the date the Stock Appreciation Rights are exercised. For purposes of this Award, the "net number of any shares of Common Stock acquired" shall mean the number of Issued Shares received with respect to a particular exercise pursuant to Section 1(b) after reduction for any shares of Common Stock withheld by or tendered to the Company, or sold on the market, to cover any federal, state, local or other payroll, withholding, income or other applicable tax withholding required in connection with the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Rights. The restrictions of this Section 7 are in addition to, and not in lieu of, the restrictions imposed under other Company policies and applicable laws.
Special Restriction on Transfer for Certain Participants
 
8. . The Stock Appreciation Rights granted pursuant to this Award shall terminate on the earlier to occur of (a) the date indicated above in the box labeled "Expiration Date" or (b) as provided in Section 4 above.
Termination
9. . This section sets forth circumstances under which Participant shall forfeit all or a portion of the Stock Appreciation Rights, or be required to repay the Company for the value realized in respect of all or a portion of the Stock Appreciation Rights.
Forfeiture of Stock Appreciation Rights and Shares
(a) . If Participant violates any provision of the Restrictive Covenants in Section 10, then any (i) unvested Stock Appreciation Rights and (ii) Stock Appreciation Rights that vested within one year prior to Participant's termination of employment with the Company or any Affiliate or at any time after such termination of employment and that have not been exercised shall be immediately cancelled and rendered null and void without any payment therefor (the "Forfeited SARs"). If any such Forfeited SARs have been exercised prior to Participant's violation of the Restrictive Covenants, Participant shall be required to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company, upon demand, an amount in cash or Common Stock having a value equal to the amount described in this Section 9(a) below.
Violation of Restrictive Covenants
To the extent that such Shares have been sold, the amount shall be the aggregate proceeds received from such sale of Shares. To the extent that such Shares have not been sold at the time Company demand is made, the amount shall be the aggregate Fair Market Value of such Shares on the date the Forfeited SARs were exercised.
(b) . If the Board determines that Participant has engaged in fraud that, in whole or in part, caused the need for a material restatement of the Company's consolidated financial statements, then any vested and unvested Stock Appreciation Rights then held by the Participant shall be immediately cancelled and rendered null and void without any payment therefor. In addition, for any Stock Appreciation Rights that were exercised during the 12-month period following the first public issuance or filing with the Securities Exchange Commission (whichever occurs first) of the incorrect financial statements (the "Covered SARs"), the Participant shall be required to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company, upon demand, an amount in cash or Common Stock having a value equal to the amount described in this Section 9(b) below.
Fraud
To the extent that such Shares have been sold, the amount shall be the aggregate proceeds received from such sale of Shares. To the extent that such Shares have not been sold at the time Company demand is made, the amount shall be the aggregate Fair Market Value of such Shares on the date the Covered SARs were exercised.
(c) . This section does not constitute the Company's exclusive remedy for Participant's violation of the Restrictive Covenants or commission of fraudulent conduct. As the forfeiture and repayment provisions are not adequate remedies at law, Company may seek any additional legal or equitable remedy, including injunctive relief, for any such violations. The provisions in this section are essential economic conditions to the Company's grant of Stock Appreciation Rights to Participant. By receiving the grant of Stock Appreciation Rights hereunder, Participant agrees that the Company may deduct from any amounts it owes
In General
 
Participant from time to time (such as wages or other compensation, deferred compensation credits, vacation pay, any severance or other payments owed following a termination of employment, as well as any other amounts owed to the Participant by the Company) to the extent of any amounts Participant owes the Company under this section. The provisions of this section and any amounts repayable by Participant hereunder are intended to be in addition to any rights to repayment the Company may have under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable law.
10. . In consideration of the terms of this Award and the Company's sharing of Confidential Information with the Participant, Participant agrees to the Restrictive Covenants set forth below. For purposes of the Restrictive Covenants, the "Company" means UnitedHealth Group and all of its subsidiaries and other affiliates.
Restrictive Covenants
(a) . Participant has or will be given access to and provided with sensitive, confidential, proprietary and/or trade secret information (collectively, "Confidential Information") in the course of Participant's employment. Examples of Confidential Information include inventions, new product or marketing plans, business strategies and plans, merger and acquisition targets, financial and pricing information, computer programs, source codes, models and data bases, analytical models, customer lists and information, and supplier and vendor lists and other information which is not generally available to the public. Participant agrees not to disclose or use Confidential Information, either during or after Participant's employment with the Company, except as necessary to perform Participant's duties or as the Company may consent in writing.
Confidential Information
(b) . During Participant's employment and for the greater of two years after the termination of Participant's employment for any reason whatsoever or the period of time during which the Stock Appreciation Rights remain exercisable, Participant may not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:
Non-Solicitation
 
 
 
 
(c) .During Participant's employment and for the greater of one year after the termination of Participant's employment for any reason whatsoever or the period of time during which the Stock Appreciation Rights remain exercisable, Participant may not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:
Non-Competition
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section 10(c) will apply to the extent permissible under the ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct's provisions regarding restrictions on the right to practice law or any applicable state counterpart.
(d) Because the Company's business competes on a nationwide basis, the Participant's obligations under this "Restrictive Covenants" section shall apply on a nationwide basis anywhere in the United States.
(e) To the extent Participant and the Company agree at any time to enter into separate agreements containing restrictive covenants with different or inconsistent terms than those contained herein, Participant and the Company acknowledge and agree that such different or inconsistent terms shall not in any way affect or have relevance to the Restrictive Covenants contained herein.
By accepting this Stock Appreciation Right, Participant agrees that the provisions of this Restrictive Covenants section are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company.
11. . In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Common Stock or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affecting the Common Stock would
Adjustments to Stock Appreciation Rights
 
be reasonably likely to result in the diminution or enlargement of any of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Award (including, without limitation, the benefits or potential benefits of provisions relating to the term, vesting or exercisability of the Stock Appreciation Rights), the Committee shall, in such manner as it shall deem equitable or appropriate in order to prevent such diminution or enlargement of any such benefits or potential benefits, make adjustments to the Award, including adjustments in the number and type of Shares subject to the Stock Appreciation Rights.
12. .
Tax Matters
(a) In order to comply with all applicable federal, state and local tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state and local payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are the sole and absolute responsibility of Participant, are withheld or collected from Participant.
(b) Upon each exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights hereunder, Participant will be deemed to have elected to satisfy Participant's minimum required federal, state, and local payroll, withholding, income or other tax withholding obligations arising from the exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights or the receipt of Issued Shares by having the Company withhold a portion of the Issued Shares otherwise to be delivered having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes (but only to the extent of the minimum amount required to be withheld under applicable laws or regulations), unless, on or before the date of exercise, Participant notifies the Company that Participant has elected, and makes appropriate arrangements acceptable to the Company, to deliver cash, check (bank check, certified check or personal check) or money order payable to the Company.
13. .
Miscellaneous
(a) This Award does not confer on Participant any right to continued employment or any other relationship with the Company or any Affiliate, nor will it interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate Participant at any time. Participant's employment with the Company is at will.
(b) Neither the Plan nor this Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Affiliate and Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.
(c) The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any shares of Common Stock upon exercise of any Stock Appreciation Rights until the requirements of any federal or state securities laws, rules or regulations or other laws or rules (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable have been and continue to be satisfied (including an effective registration of the shares under federal and state security laws).
(d) An original record of this Award and all the terms hereof, executed by the Company, is held on file by the Company. To the extent there is any conflict between the terms contained in this Award and the terms contained in the original held by the Company, the terms of the original held by the Company shall control.
 
(e) If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this Award is invalid or overbroad, Participant agrees that the court or arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other provisions of this Award should be unaffected.
(f) Participant agrees that (i) legal remedies (money damages) for any breach of the Restrictive Covenants in Section 10 will be inadequate, (ii) the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable harm from any such breach, and (iii) the Company will be entitled to injunctive relief from a court in addition to any legal remedies the Company may seek in arbitration.
(g) The Restrictive Covenants and the provisions regarding forfeiture of the Stock Appreciation Rights and Shares in this Award shall survive termination of the Stock Appreciation Rights.
(h) The validity, construction and effect of this Award and any rules and regulations relating to this Award shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota (without regard to its conflict of law principles).
(i) It is intended that this Award and any amounts payable under this Award shall either be exempt from or comply with Code Section 409A (including the Treasury regulations and other published guidance relating thereto) so as not to subject Participant to payment of any additional tax, penalty or interest imposed under Code Section 409A. The provisions of this Award certificate shall be construed and interpreted to avoid the imputation of any such additional tax, penalty or interest under Code Section 409A yet preserve (to the nearest extent reasonably possible) the intended benefit payable to Participant.
 

Exhibit 10.5
Award Number:
                    
 
THIS CERTIFIES THAT UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") has on the award date specified above (the "Award Date") granted to
("Participant") an award (the "Award") of that number of shares (the "Shares") of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (the "Common Stock"), indicated above in the box labeled "Number of Shares," subject to certain restrictions and on the terms and conditions contained in this Award and the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan").
The Participant acknowledges and agrees that the Company may deliver, by electronic mail, the use of the Internet, including through the website of the agent appointed by the Committee to administer the Plan, the Company intranet web pages or otherwise, any information concerning the Company, this Award, the Plan, pursuant to which the Company granted this Award, and any information required by the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
A copy of the Plan is available upon request. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Award, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.
1. . With respect to the Shares, on and after the Award Date and until the date or dates on which the Shares vest and the restrictions with respect to the Shares lapse in accordance with Section 2, 3 or 4, Participant shall have all of the rights of a shareholder of the Common Stock, including the right to vote the Shares and the right to receive dividends thereon, unless and until the Shares are forfeited pursuant to Section 4 or 8. The rights of Participant with respect to the Shares shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Shares lapse, in accordance with
Rights of the Participant with Respect to the Shares
Section 2, 3 or 4. Subject to the restrictions and terms of this Award, after the Shares vest pursuant to Section 2, 3 or 4, Participant shall have all of the rights of a shareholder of the Common Stock with respect to the Shares (including, without limitation, the right to vote the Shares and to receive cash dividends).
2. . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Award, [%] of the Shares shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Shares shall lapse, on if Participant remains continuously employed by the Company or any Affiliate until the respective vesting dates.
Vesting
            
                    
3. . Notwithstanding the other vesting provisions contained in Section 2 and Section 4, but subject to the other terms and conditions set forth herein, all of the Shares shall become immediately and unconditionally vested, and the restrictions with respect to such Shares shall lapse, if, on or within two years after the effective date of a Change in Control, the Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate as a result of a termination of employment (i) by the Participant for Good Reason, (ii) by the Company or any Affiliate without Cause, (iii) at a time when Participant is eligible for Retirement (as defined below), (iv) due to Participant's failure to return to work as the result of a long-term disability which renders Participant incapable of performing his or her duties as determined under the provisions of the Company's long-term disability insurance program applicable to Participant ("Disability"), or (v) in the circumstances described in Section 4(c). For purposes of this Award:
Early Vesting Upon Change in Control
(a) "Change in Control" shall mean the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets or any merger, reorganization, or exchange or tender offer which, in each case, will result in a change in the power to elect 50% or more of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company; provided, however, that such a sale, merger or other event must also constitute either (i) a "change in the ownership" of the Company within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v), (ii) a "change in the effective control" of the Company within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vi)(A)(1) (replacing "30 percent" with "50 percent" as used in such regulation), or (iii) a change "in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of the Company within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vii).
(b) "Cause" shall mean Participant's (a) material failure to follow the Company's reasonable direction or to perform any duties reasonably required on material matters, (b) material violation of, or failure to act upon or report known or suspected violations of, the Company's Code of Conduct, as may be amended from time to time, (c) conviction of any felony, (d) commission of any criminal, fraudulent, or dishonest act in connection with Participant's employment, or (e) material breach of any employment agreement between Participant and the Company or any Affiliate, if any. The Company will, within 90 days of discovery of the conduct, give Participant written notice specifying the conduct constituting Cause in reasonable detail and Participant will have 60 days to remedy such conduct, if such conduct is reasonably capable of being remedied. In any instance where the Company may have grounds for Cause, failure by the Company to
 
provide written notice of the grounds for Cause within 90 days of discovery shall be a waiver of its right to assert the subject conduct as a basis for termination for Cause.
(c) "Good Reason" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following without Participant's written consent, in each case, when compared to the arrangements in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Participant will, within 90 days of discovery of such circumstances, give the Company written notice specifying the circumstances constituting Good Reason in reasonable detail; provided however that this notice period shall be shortened or waived to the extent necessary if compliance with the notice period would cause the termination for Good Reason to occur following the second anniversary of the effective date of the Change in Control. Except as contemplated by the preceding sentence, in any instance where Participant may have grounds for Good Reason, failure by Participant to provide written notice of the grounds for Good Reason within 90 days of discovery shall be a waiver of Participant's right to assert the subject circumstance as a basis for termination for Good Reason.
(d) "Separation from Service" shall mean when Participant dies, retires, or otherwise has a termination of employment with the Company that constitutes a "separation from service" within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h)(1), without regard to the optional alternative definitions available thereunder.
4. .
Forfeiture or Early Vesting Upon Termination of Employment
(a) . Except as expressly provided in Section 3 or this Section 4, if, prior to vesting of the Shares pursuant to Section 2, Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate for any reason (voluntary or involuntary), and does not continue after such cessation of service to be either an employee of the Company or any Affiliate, then Participant's rights to all of the unvested Shares shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited on the date of termination.
Termination of Employment Generally
 
(b) . If Participant dies while employed by the Company or any Affiliate, then all unvested Shares shall become immediately vested, and the restrictions with respect to all of the Shares shall lapse, as of the date of such death.
Death
(c) . If Participant's employment with the Company or any Affiliate terminates at a time when Participant is not eligible for Retirement (and other than due to Participant's death or Disability) and, in the circumstances, Participant is entitled to severance or separation pay, the then-unvested Shares shall become immediately vested, and the restrictions with respect to such Shares shall lapse, as of the date of such termination with respect to any of such Shares that would have vested pursuant to Section 2 during the Acceleration Period (as determined under the following provisions of this Section 4(c)) had Participant's employment not terminated, subject in each case to the provisions set out in the section entitled "Forfeiture of Shares" below. If Participant is entitled to severance under the Company's severance pay plan as in effect on the date hereof, the Acceleration Period shall be the period of such severance that Participant is eligible to receive. If Participant is entitled to severance under an employment agreement entered into with the Company, the Acceleration Period shall be the period of such severance that Participant would be entitled to receive under that agreement as of the date hereof. If Participant is entitled to separation pay other than under the Company's severance pay plan or an employment agreement, the Acceleration Period shall be the lesser of the period (i) Participant would have received payments under the severance pay plan as in effect on the date hereof, had Participant been eligible for such payments or (ii) of separation pay. In any case, should Participant's severance or separation pay be paid in a lump sum versus bi-weekly payments, the Acceleration Period shall be for the period of time in which severance or separation pay would have been paid had it been paid bi-weekly. For avoidance of doubt, any Shares that are unvested on the date of termination of Participant's employment and do not vest after giving effect to the foregoing provisions of this Section 4(c) shall be forfeited.
Severance
(d) . If Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate and either (i) Participant is eligible for Retirement at the time of such termination of employment or (ii) Participant's employment terminates due to Participant's Disability, then all unvested Shares shall become immediately vested, and the restrictions with respect to all of the Shares shall lapse, as of the date of such termination of employment, subject to the provisions set out in the section entitled "Forfeiture of Shares" below.
Retirement or Long-Term Disability
(e) For purposes of this Award, "Retirement" means the termination of employment of a Participant who is age 55 or older with at least ten years of Recognized Employment with the Company or any Affiliate other than by reason of (i) death or Disability or (ii) Cause.
 
(f) For purposes of this Award, "Recognized Employment" shall include only employment since the Participant's most recent date of hire by the Company or any Affiliate, and shall [not] include employment with a company acquired by the Company or any Affiliate before the date of such acquisition.
5. . Participant may not transfer the unvested Shares except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, or pursuant to a domestic relations order as described in the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (or the rules promulgated thereunder). Any attempt to otherwise transfer the Shares shall be void.
Restriction on Transfer
6. . If Participant is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 16a-1 issued thereunder, as such status is reasonably determined from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company (a "Section 16 Officer"), at any time that Shares vest and the Company has theretofore communicated Participant's status as a Section 16 Officer to Participant, the following special transfer restrictions apply to Participant's Award. One-third (1/3) of the net number of any Shares that vest pursuant to Section 2, 3 or 4 at a time when Participant is a Section 16 Officer (including any shares of Common Stock or other securities into which such Shares may be converted or exchanged as a result of any adjustment made pursuant to this Award or Section 7 of the Plan) must be retained, and may not be sold or otherwise transferred, for a period of at least one year following the applicable vesting date. For purposes of this Award, the "net number of any Shares that vest" shall mean the number of Shares becoming vested after reduction for any shares of Common Stock withheld by or tendered to the Company, or sold on the market, to cover any federal, state, local or other payroll, withholding, income or other applicable tax withholding required in connection with the vesting of Shares. The restrictions of this Section 6 are in addition to, and not in lieu of, the restrictions imposed under other Company policies and applicable laws.
Special Restriction on Transfer for Certain Participants
7. . In consideration of the terms of this Award and the Company's sharing of Confidential Information with the Participant, Participant agrees to the Restrictive Covenants set forth below. For purposes of the Restrictive Covenants, the "Company" means UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and all of its subsidiaries and other affiliates.
Restrictive Covenants
(a) . Participant has or will be given access to and provided with sensitive, confidential, proprietary and/or trade secret information (collectively, "Confidential Information") in the course of Participant's employment. Examples of Confidential Information include inventions, new product or marketing plans, business strategies and plans, merger and acquisition targets, financial and pricing information, computer programs, source codes, models and databases, analytical models, customer lists and information, and supplier and vendor lists and other information which is not generally available to the public. Participant agrees not to disclose or use Confidential Information, either during or after Participant's employment with the Company, except as necessary to perform Participant's duties or as the Company may consent in writing.
Confidential Information
 
(b) . During Participant's employment and for two years after the later of (i) the termination of Participant's employment for any reason whatsoever, or (ii) the last scheduled vesting date under Section 4, Participant may not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:
Non-Solicitation
 
 
 
 
(c) .During Participant's employment and for one year after the later of (i) the termination of Participant's employment for any reason whatsoever or (ii) the last scheduled vesting date under Section 4, Participant may not, without the Company's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:
Non-Competition
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section 7(c) will apply to the extent permissible under the ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct's provisions regarding restrictions on the right to practice law or any applicable state counterpart.
(d) Because the Company's business competes on a nationwide basis, the Participant's obligations under this "Restrictive Covenants" section shall apply on a nationwide basis anywhere in the United States.
(e) To the extent Participant and the Company agree at any time to enter into separate agreements containing restrictive covenants with different or inconsistent terms than those contained herein, Participant and the Company acknowledge and agree that such different or inconsistent terms shall not in any way affect or have relevance to the Restrictive Covenants contained herein.
By accepting this Award, Participant agrees that the provisions of this Restrictive Covenants section are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company.
8. . This section sets forth circumstances under which Participant shall forfeit all or a portion of the Shares, or be required to repay the Company for the value realized in respect of all or a portion of the Shares.
Forfeiture of Shares
(a) . If Participant violates any provision of the Restrictive Covenants set forth in Section 7, then any unvested Shares shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited without any payment therefor. In addition, for any Shares that vested on or within one year prior to Participant's termination of employment with the Company or any Affiliate, Participant shall be required to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company, upon demand, an amount in cash or Common Stock having a value equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of such Shares on the date the Shares became vested.
Violation of Restrictive Covenants
(b) . If the Board determines that Participant has engaged in fraud that, in whole or in part, caused the need for a material restatement of the Company's consolidated financial statements, then any unvested Shares shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited without any payment therefor. In addition, for any Shares that became vested during the 12-month period following the first public issuance or filing with the Securities Exchange Commission (whichever occurs first) of the incorrect financial statements, Participant shall be required to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company, upon demand, an amount in cash or Common Stock having a value equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of such Shares on the date the Shares became vested.
Fraud
 
(c) . This section does not constitute the Company's exclusive remedy for Participant's violation of the Restrictive Covenants or commission of fraudulent conduct. As the forfeiture and repayment provisions are not adequate remedies at law, the Company may seek any additional legal or equitable remedy, including injunctive relief, for any such violations. The provisions in this section are essential economic conditions to the Company's grant of Shares to the Participant. By receiving the grant of Shares hereunder, Participant agrees that the Company may deduct from any amounts it owes Participant from time to time (such as wages or other compensation, deferred compensation credits, vacation pay, any severance or other payments owed following a termination of employment, as well as any other amounts owed to Participant by the Company) to the extent of any amounts Participant owes the Company under this section. The provisions of this section and any amounts repayable by Participant hereunder are intended to be in addition to any rights to repayment the Company may have under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable law.
In General
9. .
Issuance of Shares
(a) Effective as of the Award Date, the Company shall cause the Shares to be issued to Participant or in the name of Participant's legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be. The Shares shall be subject to an appropriate stop-transfer order.
(b) After any of the Shares vest pursuant to Section 2, 3 or 4 and following payment of the applicable withholding taxes pursuant to Section 11, the Company promptly shall cause the stop-transfer order to be removed with respect to such vested Shares.
10. .
Adjustments to Shares
(a) In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Common Stock or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affecting the Common Stock would be reasonably likely to result in the diminution or enlargement of any of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Award (including, without limitation, the benefits or potential benefits of provisions relating to the vesting of the Shares), the Committee shall, in such manner as it shall deem equitable or appropriate in order to prevent such diminution or enlargement of any such benefits or potential benefits, make adjustments to the Award, including adjustments in the number and type of securities subject to the Award
(b) Any additional shares of Common Stock, any other securities of the Company and any other property (except for cash dividends or other cash
 
distributions) distributed with respect to the Shares prior to the date or dates the Shares vest shall be subject to the same restrictions, terms and conditions as the Shares and shall be promptly deposited with the Secretary of the Company or a custodian designated by the Secretary.
(c) Any cash dividends or other cash distributions payable with respect to the Shares shall be distributed at the same time cash dividends or other cash distributions are distributed to shareholders of the Company generally.
11. .
Tax Matters
(a) In order to comply with all applicable federal, state and local tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state and local payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are the sole and absolute responsibility of Participant, are withheld or collected from Participant.
(b) On each applicable vesting date, Participant will be deemed to have elected to satisfy Participant's minimum required federal, state, and local payroll, withholding, income or other tax withholding obligations arising from the receipt of, or the lapse of restrictions relating to, the Shares, by having the Company withhold or reacquire a portion of the Shares that vested on such date having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes (but only to the extent of the minimum amount required to be withheld under applicable laws or regulations.
12. .
Miscellaneous
(a) This Award does not confer on Participant any right to continued employment or any other relationship with the Company or any Affiliate, nor will it interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate Participant at any time. Participant's employment with the Company is at will.
(b) Neither the Plan nor this Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Affiliate and Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.
(c) The Company shall not be required to deliver any Shares until the requirements of any federal or state securities laws, rules or regulations or other laws or rules (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable have been and continue to be satisfied (including an effective registration statement of the Shares under federal and state securities laws).
 
(d) An original record of this Award and all the terms hereof, executed by the Company, is held on file by the Company. To the extent there is any conflict between the terms contained in this Award and the terms contained in the original held by the Company, the terms of the original held by the Company shall control.
(e) If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this Award is invalid or overbroad, Participant agrees that the court or arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other provisions of this Award should be unaffected.
(f) Participant agrees that (i) legal remedies (money damages) for any breach of the Restrictive Covenants in Section 7 will be inadequate, (ii) the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable harm from any such breach, and (iii) the Company will be entitled to injunctive relief from a court in addition to any legal remedies the Company may seek in arbitration.
(g) The Restrictive Covenants in this Award and the provisions regarding the forfeiture of Shares in this Award shall survive forfeiture of the Shares.
(h) The validity, construction and effect of this Award and any rules and regulations relating to this Award shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota (without regard to its conflict of laws principles).
(i) It is intended that this Award and any amounts payable under this Award shall either be exempt from or comply with Section 409A of the Code (including the Treasury regulations and other published guidance relating thereto) so as not to subject Participant to payment of any additional tax, penalty or interest imposed under Section 409A of the Code. The provisions of this Award certificate shall be construed and interpreted to avoid the imputation of any such additional tax, penalty or interest under Section 409A of the Code yet preserve (to the nearest extent reasonably possible) the intended benefit payable to Participant.
 

Exhibit 10.6
Award Number:
 
THIS CERTIFIES THAT UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") has on the award date specified above (the "Award Date") granted to
("Participant") an award (the "Award") to receive that number of deferred stock units (the "Deferred Stock Units") indicated above in the box labeled "Number of Units," each Deferred Stock Unit representing the right to receive one share of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (the "Common Stock"), subject to the terms and conditions contained in this Award and the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan"). A copy of the Plan is available upon request. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Award, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.
1. . The Deferred Stock Units granted pursuant to this Award do not and shall not entitle Participant to any rights of a shareholder of Common Stock. No shares of Common Stock shall be issued to Participant in settlement of Deferred Stock Units prior to the time specified in Section 3.
Rights of the Participant with Respect to the Deferred Stock Units
2. . The Deferred Stock Units granted pursuant to this Award are 100% vested as of the Award Date.
Vesting
3. . Upon Participant's departure from the Company's Board of Directors for any reason (with such departure being considered a "separation from service" as set forth in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h)) ("Departure Date"), the Company shall promptly cause to be issued shares of Common Stock in Participant's name (or in the name of Participant's legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be), in payment
Conversion of Deferred Stock Units; Issuance of Common Stock
of whole Deferred Stock Units. In no event shall settlement occur later than ninety (90) days following Participant's Departure Date, unless such payment is deferred in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Company's non-qualified deferred compensation plans and in compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and its accompanying regulations ("Code Section 409A").
4. . Participant may not transfer the Deferred Stock Units except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a domestic relations order as described in the Internal Revenue Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (or the rules promulgated thereunder). Any attempt to otherwise transfer the Deferred Stock Units shall be void. Participant may specify to whom the Company shall deliver any such shares of Common Stock which are otherwise payable to Participant in settlement of such Deferred Stock Units, subject to the requirements of any applicable law.
Restriction on Transfer
5. . If a cash dividend is declared and paid by the Company with respect to the Common Stock, the Participant shall be credited as of the applicable dividend payment date with an additional number of Deferred Stock Units (the "Dividend Units") equal to (A) the total cash dividend the Participant would have received had the Participant's Deferred Stock Units (and any previously credited Dividend Units with respect thereto) been actual shares of Common Stock, divided by (B) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock as of the applicable dividend payment date, rounded up to the nearest whole number if the calculation results in a fraction. As of the conversion date pursuant to Section 3, the number of Dividend Units paid on the Deferred Stock Units converting on such conversion date shall also convert into the form of shares of Common Stock. The terms of this Award certificate shall apply to all Dividend Units paid on the Deferred Stock Units.
Dividend Equivalents
6. . In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Common Stock or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affecting the Common Stock would be reasonably likely to result in the diminution or enlargement of any of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Award, the Committee shall, in such manner as it shall deem equitable or appropriate in order to prevent such diminution or enlargement of any such benefits or potential benefits, make adjustments to the Award; , , that the number of shares into which the Deferred Stock Units may be converted shall be rounded up to the nearest whole number. Without limiting the foregoing, if any capital reorganization or reclassification of the capital stock of the Company, or consolidation or merger of the Company with another entity, or the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets to another entity, shall be effected in such a way that holders of the Company's Common Stock shall be entitled to receive stock, securities, cash or other assets with respect to or in exchange for such shares, Participant shall have the right to receive upon the terms and conditions specified in this certificate and in lieu of the shares of Common
Adjustments to Deferred Stock Units
provided
however
 
Stock of the Company immediately theretofore receivable upon the settlement of the Deferred Stock Units, with appropriate adjustments to prevent diminution or enlargement of benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Award, such shares of stock, other securities, cash or other assets as would have been issued or delivered to Participant if Participant had received such shares of Common Stock prior to such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale. The Company shall not effect any such reorganization, consolidation, merger or sale unless prior to the consummation thereof the successor entity (if other than the Company) resulting from such reorganization, consolidation or merger or the entity purchasing such assets shall assume by written instrument the obligation to deliver to Participant such shares of stock, securities, cash or other assets as, in accordance with the foregoing provisions, Participant may be entitled to receive.
7. .
Miscellaneous
(a) . This Award does not confer on Participant any right with respect to the continuance of any relationship with the Company or its Affiliates.
No Other Rights
(b) . Neither the Plan nor this Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Affiliate and Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.
Unfunded Award
(c) . The Company shall not be required to deliver any shares of Common Stock underlying any Deferred Stock Units until the requirements of any federal or state securities laws, rules or regulations or other laws or rules (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable have been and continue to be satisfied (including an effective registration of the shares under federal and state securities laws). The Company will use its best efforts to complete all actions necessary for such compliance so that settlement can occur within the period specified in Section 3; provided that if such compliance causes settlement within such period to be administratively impractical within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(b)(4)(ii), settlement shall occur as soon as administratively practical. To the extent an Award is subject to Code Section 409A, settlement shall occur at the earliest date at which the Company anticipates that such settlement will not cause a violation of applicable law.
Compliance with Securities Laws
(d) . An original record of this Award and all the terms hereof is held on file by the Company. To the extent there is any conflict between the terms contained in this Award and the terms contained in the original held by the Company, the terms of the original held by the Company shall control.
Document Conflict
(e) . If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this Award is invalid or overbroad, Participant agrees that the court or arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other provisions of this Award should be unaffected.
Severability
 
(f) .This Award document and the Plan constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the terms and supersede all prior or written or oral negotiations, commitments, representations and agreements with respect thereto. The terms and conditions set forth in this Award document may only be modified or amended in a writing, signed by both parties.
Entire Agreement; Modification
(g) The validity, construction and effect of this Award and any rules and regulations relating to this Award shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota (without regard to its conflict of law principles).
Governing Law.
(h) .
Code Section 409A
(i) It is intended that any amounts payable under the Award shall either be exempt from or comply with Section 409A of the Code (including the Treasury regulations and other published guidance relating thereto) so as not to subject Participant to payment of any additional tax, penalty or interest imposed under Section 409A of the Code. The provisions of this Award certificate shall be construed and interpreted to avoid the imputation of any such additional tax, penalty or interest under Section 409A of the Code yet preserve (to the nearest extent reasonably possible) the intended benefit payable to Participant.
(ii) Notwithstanding any provision of this Award certificate to the contrary, if payment of the Deferred Stock Units is triggered by Participant's separation from service (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) and, as of the date of such separation from service, Participant is a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by the Company), Participant shall not be entitled to such payment of the Deferred Stock Units until the earlier of (i) the date which is six (6) months after Participant's separation from service for any reason other than death, or (ii) the date of Participant's death. Any amounts otherwise payable to Participant upon or in the six (6) month period following Participant's separation from service that are not so paid by reason of this Section 7(h)(ii) shall be paid (without interest) as soon as practicable (and in all events within thirty (30) days) after the date that is six (6) months after Participant's separation from service (or, if earlier, as soon as practicable, and in all events within thirty (30) days, after the date of Participant's death). The provisions of this Section 7(h)(ii) shall only apply if, and to the extent, required to avoid the imputation of any tax, penalty or interest pursuant to Section 409A of the Code.
 

Exhibit 10.7
Award Number:
 
THIS CERTIFIES THAT UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the "Company") has on the Award Date specified above granted to
("Participant") an award (the "Award") to receive that number of deferred stock units (the "Deferred Stock Units") indicated above in the box labeled "Number of Units," each Deferred Stock Unit representing the right to receive one share of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (the "Common Stock"), subject to certain restrictions and on the terms and conditions contained in this Award and the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan"). A copy of the Plan is available upon request. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Award, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.
1. . The Deferred Stock Units granted pursuant to this Award do not and shall not entitle Participant to any rights of a shareholder of Common Stock. The rights of Participant with respect to the Deferred Stock Units shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date on which such rights vest and the restrictions with respect to the Deferred Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 2. No shares of Common Stock shall be issued to Participant in settlement of vested Deferred Stock Units prior to the time specified in Section 3.
Rights of the Participant with Respect to the Deferred Stock Units
2. .
Vesting
(a) . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Award, 25% of the Deferred Stock Units shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Deferred Stock Units shall lapse, on each of the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of the Award Date if Participant continues to serve on the Board of Directors of the Company until the
Generally
respective vesting dates. If Participant departs from the Board of Directors for any reason (with such departure being considered a "separation from service" as set forth in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h)), then all Deferred Stock Units that are not vested as of the date of such departure ("Departure Date") shall immediately terminate.
(b) . Notwithstanding the other vesting provisions contained in Section 2, but subject to the other terms and conditions set forth herein, upon the effective date of a Change in Control, all unvested Deferred Stock Units shall immediately vest, and the restrictions with respect to all unvested Deferred Stock Units shall lapse. For purposes of this Award, a "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence of one or more of the change in control events set forth in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5); , , that the threshold percentage for purposes of determining whether a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the Company's assets has occurred under Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vii) shall be 80%.
Change in Control
provided
however
3. . Upon Participant's Departure Date, the Company shall promptly cause to be issued shares of Common Stock in Participant's name (or in the name of Participant's legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be), in payment of vested whole Deferred Stock Units. The value of any fractional vested Deferred Stock Unit shall be paid in a single lump sum cash payment at the time shares of Common Stock are delivered to Participant in payment of the Deferred Stock Units. In no event shall settlement occur later than ninety (90) days following Participant's Departure Date, unless such payment is deferred in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Company's non-qualified deferred compensation plans and in compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and its accompanying regulations ("Code Section 409A").
Conversion of Deferred Stock Units; Issuance of Common Stock
4. . Participant may not transfer the Deferred Stock Units except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a domestic relations order as described in the Internal Revenue Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (or the rules promulgated thereunder). Any attempt to otherwise transfer the Deferred Stock Units shall be void. Participant may specify to whom the Company shall deliver any such shares of Common Stock which are otherwise payable to Participant in settlement of such Deferred Stock Units, subject to the requirements of any applicable law.
Restriction on Transfer
5. . If a cash dividend is declared and paid by the Company with respect to the Common Stock, the Participant shall be credited as of the applicable dividend payment date with an additional number of Deferred Stock Units (the "Dividend Units") equal to (A) the total cash dividend the Participant would have received had the Participant's Deferred Stock Units (and any previously credited Dividend Units with respect thereto) been actual shares of Common Stock, divided by (B) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock as of the applicable dividend payment date, rounded up to the nearest whole number if the calculation results in a fraction. As of the conversion date pursuant to Section 3, the number of Dividend Units
Dividend Equivalents
 
paid on the Deferred Stock Units converting on such conversion date shall convert into the form of shares of Common Stock. To the extent a Participant's rights to any unvested Deferred Stock Units are forfeited, the Dividend Units paid on such forfeited Deferred Stock Units shall also be forfeited. The terms of this Award certificate shall apply to all Dividend Units paid on the Deferred Stock Units.
6. . In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Common Stock or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affecting the Common Stock would be reasonably likely to result in the diminution or enlargement of any of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Award (including, without limitation, the benefits or potential benefits of provisions relating to the vesting of the Deferred Stock Units), the Committee shall, in such manner as it shall deem equitable or appropriate in order to prevent such diminution or enlargement of any such benefits or potential benefits, make adjustments to the Award, including adjustments in the number and type of shares of Common Stock Participant would have received upon vesting of the Deferred Stock Units; , , that the number of shares into which the Deferred Stock Units may be converted shall be rounded up to the nearest whole number. Without limiting the foregoing, if any capital reorganization or reclassification of the capital stock of the Company, or consolidation or merger of the Company with another entity, or the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets to another entity, shall be effected in such a way that holders of the Company's Common Stock shall be entitled to receive stock, securities, cash or other assets with respect to or in exchange for such shares, Participant shall have the right to receive upon the terms and conditions specified in this certificate and in lieu of the shares of Common Stock of the Company immediately theretofore receivable upon the settlement of the Deferred Stock Units, with appropriate adjustments to prevent diminution or enlargement of benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Award, such shares of stock, other securities, cash or other assets as would have been issued or delivered to Participant if Participant had received such shares of Common Stock prior to such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale. The Company shall not effect any such reorganization, consolidation, merger or sale unless prior to the consummation thereof the successor entity (if other than the Company) resulting from such reorganization, consolidation or merger or the entity purchasing such assets shall assume by written instrument the obligation to deliver to Participant such shares of stock, securities, cash or other assets as, in accordance with the foregoing provisions, Participant may be entitled to receive.
Adjustments to Deferred Stock Units
provided
however
7. .
Miscellaneous
(a) This Award does not confer on Participant any right with respect to the continuance of any relationship with the Company or its Affiliates.
No Other Rights.
(b) . Neither the Plan nor this Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between
Unfunded Award
 
the Company or any Affiliate and Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.
(c) . The Company shall not be required to deliver any shares of Common Stock underlying any Deferred Stock Units until the requirements of any federal or state securities laws, rules or regulations or other laws or rules (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable have been and continue to be satisfied (including an effective registration of the shares under federal and state securities laws). The Company will use its best efforts to complete all actions necessary for such compliance so that settlement can occur within the period specified in Section 3; provided that if such compliance causes settlement within such period to be administratively impractical within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(b)(4)(ii), settlement shall occur as soon as administratively practical. To the extent an Award is subject to Code Section 409A, settlement shall occur at the earliest date at which the Company anticipates that such settlement will not cause a violation of applicable law.
Compliance with Securities Laws
(d) . An original record of this Award and all the terms hereof is held on file by the Company. To the extent there is any conflict between the terms contained in this Award and the terms contained in the original held by the Company, the terms of the original held by the Company shall control.
Document Conflict
(e) . If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this Award is invalid or overbroad, Participant agrees that the court or arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other provisions of this Award should be unaffected.
Severability
(f) This Award document and the Plan constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the terms and supersede all prior or written or oral negotiations, commitments, representations and agreements with respect thereto. The terms and conditions set forth in this Award document may only be modified or amended in a writing, signed by both parties.
Entire Agreement; Modification.
(g) The validity, construction and effect of this Award and any rules and regulations relating to this Award shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota (without regard to its conflict of law principles).
Governing Law.
(h) .
Code Section 409A
(i) It is intended that any amounts payable under the Award shall either be exempt from or comply with Section 409A of the Code (including the Treasury regulations and other published guidance relating thereto) so as not to subject Participant to payment of any additional tax, penalty or interest imposed under Section 409A of the Code. The provisions of this Award certificate shall
 
be construed and interpreted to avoid the imputation of any such additional tax, penalty or interest under Section 409A of the Code yet preserve (to the nearest extent reasonably possible) the intended benefit payable to Participant.
(ii) Notwithstanding any provision of this Award certificate to the contrary, if payment of the Deferred Stock Units is triggered by Participant's separation from service (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) and, as of the date of such separation from service, Participant is a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by the Company), Participant shall not be entitled to such payment of the Deferred Stock Units until the earlier of (i) the date which is six (6) months after Participant's separation from service for any reason other than death, or (ii) the date of Participant's death. Any amounts otherwise payable to Participant upon or in the six (6) month period following Participant's separation from service that are not so paid by reason of this Section 7(h)(ii) shall be paid (without interest) as soon as practicable (and in all events within thirty (30) days) after the date that is six (6) months after Participant's separation from service (or, if earlier, as soon as practicable, and in all events within thirty (30) days, after the date of Participant's death). The provisions of this Section 7(h)(ii) shall only apply if, and to the extent, required to avoid the imputation of any tax, penalty or interest pursuant to Section 409A of the Code.
 


