Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, include forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements typically contain words such as "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "expects", "forecasts", "predicts" or "projects" or variations of these words, suggesting that future outcomes are uncertain. In accordance with "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward looking statements. Forward looking statements with respect to Marathon may include, but are not limited to, levels of revenues, gross margins, income from operations, net income or earnings per share; levels of capital, exploration, environmental or maintenance expenditures; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital, exploration or maintenance projects; volumes of production, sales, throughput or shipments of liquid hydrocarbons, natural gas and refined products; levels of worldwide prices of liquid hydrocarbons, natural gas and refined products; levels of reserves, proved or otherwise, of liquid hydrocarbons or natural gas; the acquisition or divestiture of assets; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the potential effect of judicial proceedings on the business and financial condition; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, or federal, state or local regulatory authorities. The oil and gas industry is characterized by a large number of companies, none of which is dominant within the industry, but a number of which have greater resources than Marathon. Marathon must compete with these companies for the rights to explore for oil and gas. Marathons expectations as to revenues, margins and income are based upon assumptions as to future prices and volumes of liquid hydrocarbons, natural gas and refined products. Prices have historically been volatile and have frequently been driven by unpredictable changes in supply and demand resulting from fluctuations in economic activity and political developments in the worlds major oil and gas producing areas, including OPEC member countries. Any substantial decline in such prices could have a material adverse effect on Marathons results of operations. A decline in such prices could also adversely affect the quantity of liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas that can be economically produced and the amount of capital available for exploration and development. Marathon uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments such as futures, forwards, swaps, and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations. While commodity based derivative instruments are generally used to reduce risks from unfavorable commodity price movements, they also may limit the opportunity to benefit from favorable movements. Levels of hedging activity vary among oil industry competitors and could affect Marathons competitive position with respect to those competitors. Liquidity Factors Marathons ability to finance its future business requirements through internally generated funds, proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings and other external financing sources is affected by the performance of its operations (as measured by various factors, including cash provided from operating activities), the state of worldwide debt and equity markets, investor perceptions and expectations of past and future performance and actions, the overall U.S. financial climate, and, in particular, with respect to borrowings, by Marathons outstanding debt and credit ratings by investor services. Factors Affecting Exploration and Production Operations Projected production levels for liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas are based on a number of assumptions, including (among others) prices, supply and demand, regulatory constraints, reserve estimates, production decline rates for mature fields, reserve replacement rates, drilling rig availability and geological and operating considerations. These assumptions may prove to be inaccurate. Exploration and production operations are subject to various hazards, including acts of war or terrorist acts and the governmental or military response thereto, explosions, fires and uncontrollable flows of oil and gas. Offshore production and marine operations in areas such as the Gulf of Mexico, the North Sea, the U.K. Atlantic Margin, the Celtic Sea, offshore Nova Scotia and offshore 2 West Africa are also subject to severe weather conditions such as hurricanes or violent storms or other hazards. Development of new production properties in countries outside the United States may require protracted negotiations with host governments and are frequently subject to political considerations, such as tax regulations, which could adversely affect the economics of projects. Factors Affecting Refining, Marketing and Transportation Operations Marathon conducts domestic refining, marketing and transportation operations primarily through its 62 percent owned consolidated subsidiary, Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC ("MAP"). MAPs operations are conducted mainly in the Midwest, Southeast, Ohio River Valley and the upper Great Plains. The profitability of these operations depends largely on the margin between the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks refined and the selling prices of refined products. MAP is a purchaser of crude oil in order to satisfy its refinery throughput requirements. As a result, its overall profitability could be adversely affected by rising crude oil and other feedstock prices which are not recovered in the marketplace. Refined product margins have been historically volatile and vary with the level of economic activity in the various marketing areas, the regulatory climate, logistical capabilities and the available supply of refined products. Gross margins on merchandise sold at retail outlets tend to moderate the volatility experienced in the retail sale of gasoline and diesel fuel. Environmental regulations, particularly the 1990 Amendments to the Clean Air Act, have imposed (and are expected to continue to impose) increasingly stringent and costly requirements on refining and marketing operations which may have an adverse effect on margins. Refining, marketing and transportation operations are subject to business interruptions due to unforeseen events such as explosions, fires, crude oil or refined product spills, inclement weather or labor disputes. They are also subject to the additional hazards of marine operations, such as capsizing, collision and damage or loss from severe weather conditions. Technology Factors Longer term projections of corporate strategy, including the viability, timing or expenditures required for capital projects, can be affected by changes in technology, especially innovations in processes used in the exploration, production or refining of hydrocarbons. While specific future changes are difficult to project, recent innovations affecting the oil industry include the development of three dimensional seismic imaging and deep water and horizontal drilling capabilities. PART I Item 1. and 2. Business and Properties General Marathon Oil Corporation was originally organized in 2001 as USX HoldCo, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of USX Corporation ("Old USX"). As a result of a reorganization completed in July 2001, USX HoldCo, Inc. (1) became the parent entity of the consolidated enterprise (the former USX Corporation was merged into a subsidiary of USX HoldCo, Inc.) and (2) changed its name to USX Corporation. In connection with the Separation discussed below, USX Corporation (formerly USX HoldCo, Inc.) changed its name to Marathon Oil Corporation. The accompanying consolidated financial statements reflect Marathon Oil Corporation and its subsidiaries as the continuation of the consolidated enterprise. In this Form 10 K, all references to "United States Steel" mean United States Steel Corporation, its predecessors (including, where applicable, the U.S. Steel Group of USX Corporation) and its subsidiaries. Prior to December 31, 2001, Marathon had two outstanding classes of common stock: USX Marathon Group common stock ("Marathon Stock"), which was intended to reflect the performance of Marathons energy business, and USX U. S. Steel Group common stock ("Steel Stock"), which was intended to reflect the performance of Marathons steel business. As described further in Note 2 to the Financial Statements, on December 31, 2001, Marathon disposed of its steel business through a tax free distribution of the common stock of its wholly owned subsidiary United States Steel Corporation ("United States Steel") to holders of Steel Stock in exchange for all outstanding shares of Steel Stock on a one for one basis ("the Separation"). In connection with the Separation, Marathons certificate of incorporation was amended on December 31, 2001 and, from that date, Marathon has only one class of common stock authorized. Marathon is engaged in worldwide exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas; domestic refining, marketing and transportation of crude oil and petroleum products primarily through its 62 percent owned subsidiary Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC ("MAP"); and other energy related businesses. 3 The Separation Marathon was originally organized in 2001 as USX HoldCo, Inc. ("USX HoldCo") to become a holding company for the two principal businesses of the former parent company, Old USX: . the steel production and sale business, the steel mill products, coke, taconite pellets and coal transportation business and other steel related businesses comprising the U.S. Steel Group; and . the oil and gas exploration and production and other energy businesses conducted by Marathon Oil Company, an Ohio corporation, and other subsidiaries comprising the Marathon Group. In a series of transactions (the "Holding Company Reorganization") Old USX completed on July 2, 2001: . USX HoldCo became the holding company for Marathon Oil Company and United States Steel LLC; . Old USX was merged with and into United States Steel LLC; . USX HoldCo assumed a substantial part of the outstanding indebtedness, obligations under various capital and operating leases and guarantee obligations and other contingent liabilities of Old USX; and . USX HoldCo changed its name to USX Corporation. On December 31, 2001, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated as of July 31, 2001 ("Reorganization Agreement") Marathon completed the Separation transaction, in which: . United States Steel LLC converted into a Delaware corporation named United States Steel Corporation and became a separate, publicly traded company; and . USX HoldCo, then known as USX Corporation, changed its name to Marathon Oil Corporation. Marathon and its subsidiaries are continuing the energy business that comprised the Marathon Group of Old USX. Assumption of Indebtedness and Other Obligations by United States Steel Prior to the Separation, Old USX, and then Marathon, managed most of its financial activities on a centralized, consolidated basis and, in its financial statements, attributed amounts that related primarily to the following items to the Marathon Group and the U.S. Steel Group on the basis of their cash flows for the applicable periods and the initial capital structure for each group: . invested cash; . short term and long term debt, including convertible debt, and related net interest and other financing costs; and . preferred stock and related dividends. The following items, however, were specifically attributed to and reflected in their entirety in the financial statements of the group to which they related: . leases; . collateralized financings; . indexed debt instruments; . financial activities of consolidated entities that were not wholly owned subsidiaries; and . transactions that related to securities convertible solely into common stock that tracked the performance of the Marathon Group or the U.S. Steel Group. These attributions were for accounting purposes only and did not reflect the legal ownership of cash or the legal obligations to pay and discharge debt or other obligations. In connection with the Separation: . United States Steel and its subsidiaries incurred indebtedness to third parties and assumed various obligations from Marathon in an aggregate amount approximately equal to all the net amounts attributed to the U. S. Steel Group immediately prior to the Separation, both absolute and contingent, less the amount of a $900 million value transfer (the "Value Transfer"); and 4 . Marathon and its subsidiaries remained responsible for all the liabilities attributed to the Marathon Group, both absolute and contingent, plus $900 million. These arrangements require a post Separation cash settlement between Marathon and United States Steel following the audit of the balance sheets for both the Marathon Group and the U. S. Steel Group as of December 31, 2001, in order to ensure that the Value Transfer was $900 million. As a result of its assumption of various items of indebtedness and other obligations from its former parent entity in the Holding Company Reorganization, Marathon remained obligated after the Separation for the following items of indebtedness and other obligations that were attributed to the U.S. Steel Group in accordance with the provisions of the Reorganization Agreement (amounts as of December 31, 2001): . approximately $470 million of obligations under industrial revenue bonds related to environmental projects for current and former U. S. Steel Group facilities, with maturities ranging from 2009 through 2033; . approximately $84 million of sale leaseback financing obligations under a lease for equipment at United States Steels Fairfield Works facility, with the lease term extending to 2012, subject to extensions; . approximately $138 million in obligations relating to various lease arrangements accounted for as operating leases and various guarantee arrangements, all of which were assumed by United States Steel; and . other guarantees referred to under "Relationship Between Marathon and United States Steel After the Separation Financial Matters Agreement" on page 7. As contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement, Marathon and United States Steel entered into a financial matters agreement to reflect United States Steels agreement to assume and discharge all Marathons principal repayment, interest payment and other payment obligations under the industrial revenue bonds, the capital lease arrangement and the guarantees associated with the other lease and similar obligations referred to above. In addition, the financial matters agreement requires United States Steel to use commercially reasonable efforts to have Marathon released from its obligations under the other guarantees referred to above. The financial matters agreement also provides that on or before the tenth anniversary of the Separation, United States Steel will provide for Marathons discharge from any remaining liability under any of the assumed industrial revenue bonds. United States Steel may accomplish that discharge by refinancing or, to the extent not refinanced, paying Marathon an amount equal to the remaining principal amount of, all accrued and unpaid debt service outstanding on, and any premium required to immediately retire, the then outstanding industrial revenue bonds. Only $1.8 million of the industrial revenue bonds are scheduled to mature in the period extending through 2012. For additional information relating to the financial matters agreement, see "Relationship Between Marathon and United States Steel After the Separation Financial Matters Agreement" on page 7. Effects on Historical Relationship Historically, the U.S. Steel Group has funded its negative operating cash flow with cash supplied by Marathon, a portion of which was reflected as a payment under the tax allocation policy and the remainder of which was represented by increased amounts of debt attributed by Marathon. As a stand alone company, United States Steel will need to fund any of its negative operating cash flow from external sources, and adequate sources may be unavailable or the cost of such funding may adversely impact United States Steel. As discussed below, the financial matters agreement does not contain any financial covenants, and United States Steel is free to incur additional debt and grant mortgages on or security interests in its property and sell or transfer assets without Marathons consent. United States Steel is more highly leveraged than Marathon, has a noninvestment grade credit rating and has granted security interests in some of its assets, including its accounts receivable and inventory. Additionally, United States Steels operations are capital intensive. United States Steels business also requires substantial expenditures for routine maintenance. The steel business is highly competitive and a large number of industry participants have sought protection under bankruptcy laws in recent periods. Relationship Between Marathon and United States Steel After the Separation As a result of the Separation, Marathon and United States Steel are separate companies, and neither has any ownership interest in the other. Thomas J. Usher is chairman of the board of both companies, and four of the remaining nine members of Marathons board of directors are also directors of United States Steel. 5 In connection with the Separation and pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization, Marathon and United States Steel have entered into a series of agreements governing their relationship subsequent to the Separation and providing for the allocation of tax and certain other liabilities and obligations arising from periods prior to the Separation. Set forth below is a description of the material terms of those agreements. Tax Sharing Agreement Marathon and United States Steel have a tax sharing agreement that applies to each of their consolidated tax reporting groups. Provisions of this agreement include the following: . for any taxable period, or any portion of any taxable period, ended on or before December 31, 2001, unpaid tax sharing payments will be made between Marathon and United States Steel generally in accordance with the general tax sharing principles in effect prior to the Separation; . no tax sharing payments will be made with respect to taxable periods, or portions thereof, beginning after December 31, 2001; and . provisions relating to the tax and related liabilities, if any, that result from the Separation ceasing to qualify as a tax free transaction and limitations on post Separation activities that might jeopardize the tax free status of the Separation. Under the general tax sharing principles in effect prior to the Separation: . the taxes payable by each of the Marathon Group and the U.S. Steel Group were determined as if each of them had filed its own consolidated, combined or unitary tax return; and . the U.S. Steel Group would receive the benefit, in the form of tax sharing payments by the parent corporation, of the tax attributes, consisting principally of net operating losses and various credits, that its business generated and the parent used on a consolidated basis to reduce its taxes otherwise payable. In accordance with the tax sharing agreement, at the time of the Separation, Marathon made a preliminary settlement with United States Steel of approximately $440 million as the net tax sharing payments owed to it for the year ended December 31, 2001 under the pre Separation tax sharing principles. The tax sharing agreement also addresses the handling of tax audits and contests and other matters respecting taxable periods, or portions of taxable periods, ended prior to December 31, 2001. In the tax sharing agreement, each of Marathon and United States Steel promised the other party that it: . would not, prior to January 1, 2004, take various actions or enter into various transactions that might, under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, jeopardize the tax free status of the Separation; and . would be responsible for, and indemnify and hold the other party harmless from and against, any tax and related liability, such as interest and penalties, that results from the Separation ceasing to qualify as tax free because of its taking of any such action or entering into any such transaction. The proscribed actions and transactions include: . the liquidation of Marathon or United States Steel; and . the sale by Marathon or United States Steel of its assets, except in the ordinary course of business. In case a taxing authority seeks to collect a tax liability from one party which the tax sharing agreement has allocated to the other party, the other party has agreed in the sharing agreement to indemnify the first party against that liability. Even if the Separation otherwise qualifies for tax free treatment under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, the Separation may become taxable to Marathon under section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code if capital stock representing a 50 percent or greater interest in either Marathon or United States Steel is acquired, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the Separation. For this purpose, a "50 percent or greater interest" means capital stock possessing at least 50 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote or at least 50 percent of the total value of shares of all classes of capital stock. To minimize this risk, both Marathon and United States Steel agreed in the tax sharing agreement that they would not enter into any transactions or make any change in their equity structures that could cause the 6 Separation to be treated as part of a plan or series of related transactions to which those provisions of section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code may apply. If an acquisition occurs that results in the Separation being taxable under section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, the agreement provides that the resulting corporate tax liability will be borne by the party involved in that acquisition transaction. Although the tax sharing agreement allocates tax liabilities relating to taxable periods ending on or prior to the Separation, each of Marathon and United States Steel, as members of the same consolidated tax reporting group during any portion of a taxable period ended on or prior to the date of the Separation, is jointly and severally liable under the Internal Revenue Code for the federal income tax liability of the entire consolidated tax reporting group for that year. To address the possibility that the taxing authorities may seek to collect all or part of a tax liability from one party where the tax sharing agreement allocates that liability to the other party, the agreement includes indemnification provisions that would entitle the party from whom the taxing authorities are seeking collection to obtain indemnification from the other party, to the extent the agreement allocates that liability to that other party. Marathon can provide no assurance, however, that United States Steel will be able to meet its indemnification obligations, if any, to Marathon that may arise under the tax sharing agreement. Transition Services Agreement Marathon and United States Steel have a transition services agreement that will govern the provision of the following services until December 31, 2002: . common corporate support services; and . inter unit computer services. Common corporate support services include services personnel at the former Pittsburgh corporate headquarters historically provided prior to the Separation. These include accounting, finance and financial management, government affairs, investor relations, public affairs and tax services. Most of these personnel now work for Marathon or United States Steel. Each company has agreed to provide these services to the other, to the extent it is able to do so and the other company cannot satisfy its own needs. Inter unit computer services consist of computer and information technology services either company historically provided to the former Pittsburgh corporate headquarters or to the other company. A company providing common corporate support or inter unit computer services under the transition services agreement will be entitled to recover the costs it incurs in providing those services. The transition services agreement also includes each companys grant to the other company and its subsidiaries of a nonexclusive, fully paid, worldwide license for their internal use only of the granting companys computer programs, software, source code and know how that were utilized prior to the Separation or are utilized under the transition services agreement to provide common corporate support or inter unit computer services to the other company and its subsidiaries. Financial Matters Agreement Marathon and United States Steel have a financial matters agreement that provides for United States Steels assumption of the obligations under Marathons outstanding industrial revenue bonds, the sale leaseback financing arrangement and the lease and guarantee obligations referred to above under "The Separation Assumption of Indebtedness and Other Obligations by United States Steel" on page 5. Under the financial matters agreement, United States Steel has assumed and agreed to discharge all Marathons principal repayment, interest payment and other obligations under those industrial revenue bonds and lease and guarantee arrangements described above, including any amounts due on any default or acceleration of any of those obligations, other than any default caused by Marathon. The financial matters agreement also provides that, on or before the tenth anniversary of the Separation, United States Steel will provide for Marathons discharge from any remaining liability under any of the assumed industrial revenue bonds. The financial matters agreement also requires United States Steel to use commercially reasonable efforts to have Marathon released from its obligations under a guarantee Marathon provided with respect to all United States Steels obligations under a partnership agreement between United States Steel, as general partner, and General Electric Credit Corporation of Delaware and Southern Energy Clairton, LLC, as limited partners. 7 United States Steel may dissolve the partnership under certain circumstances including if it is required to fund accumulated cash shortfalls of the partnership in excess of $150 million. In addition to the normal commitments of a general partner, United States Steel has indemnified the limited partners for certain income tax exposures. As of December 31, 2001, United States Steel had no unpaid outstanding obligations to the limited partners. The financial matters agreement requires Marathon to use commercially reasonable efforts to take all necessary action or refrain from acting so as to assure compliance with all covenants and other obligations under the documents relating to the assumed obligations to avoid the occurrence of a default or the acceleration of the payment obligations under the assumed obligations. The agreement also obligates Marathon to use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain and maintain letters of credit and other liquidity arrangements required under the assumed obligations. United States Steels obligations to Marathon under the financial matters agreement are general unsecured obligations which rank equal to United States Steels accounts payable and other general unsecured obligations. The financial matters agreement does not contain any financial covenants, and United States Steel is free to incur additional debt, grant mortgages on or security interests in its property and sell or transfer assets without our consent. License Agreement Marathon and United States Steel have entered into a license agreement under which Marathon granted to United States Steel a nonexclusive, fully paid, worldwide license to use the "USX" name and various trade secrets, know how and intellectual property rights previously used in connection with the business of both companies. The license agreement provides that United States Steel may use these rights solely in the conduct of its internal business. It also provides United States Steel with the right to sublicense these rights to any of its subsidiaries. The license agreement provides for a perpetual term, so long as United States Steel performs its obligations under the agreement. Insurance Assistance Agreement Marathon and United States Steel have an insurance assistance agreement, which provides for: . the division of responsibility for joint insurance arrangements; and . the entitlement to insurance claims and the allocation of deductibles with respect to claims associated with pre Separation periods. Under the insurance assistance agreement: . Marathon is entitled to all rights in and to all claims and is solely liable for the payment of uninsured retentions and deductibles arising out of or relating to pre Separation events or conditions exclusively associated with the business of the Marathon Group; . United States Steel is entitled to all rights in and to all claims and is solely liable for the payment of uninsured retentions and deductibles arising out of or relating to pre Separation events or conditions exclusively associated with the business of the U. S. Steel Group; . Marathon is entitled to 65 percent and United States Steel is entitled to 35 percent of all rights in and to all claims, and Marathon and United States Steel are liable on the same percentage basis for the payment of uninsured retentions and deductibles, arising out of or relating to pre Separation events or conditions and not related exclusively to either the Marathon Group or the U.S. Steel Group; and . the cost of extended reporting insurance for pre Separation periods will be split between Marathon and United States Steel on a 65 percent 35 percent basis, respectively, if both companies elect to purchase the same extended reporting insurance. Exploration and Production Oil and Natural Gas Exploration and Development Marathon is currently conducting exploration and development activities in 11 countries, including its January 2002 acquisition of interests in Equatorial Guinea, West Africa. Principal exploration activities are in the United States, the United Kingdom, Angola, Canada, and Norway. Principal development activities are in the 8 United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Ireland, the Netherlands and Norway. Marathon is also pursuing opportunities in North and West Africa, the Middle East, Southeast Asia and the Commonwealth of Independent States. The following table sets forth, by geographic area, the number of net productive and dry development and exploratory wells completed in each of the last three years (references to "net" wells or production indicate Marathons ownership interest or share, as the context requires): Net Productive and Dry Wells Completed(a) 2001 2000 1999 United States(b) Development(c) Oil 10 23 11 Gas 751 109 54 Dry 3 2 1 Total 764 134 66 Exploratory(d) Oil 2 2 5 Gas 9 6 9 Dry 6 5 13 Total 17 13 27 Total United States 781 147 93 International(e) Development(c) Oil 1 12 42 Gas 54 111 55 Dry 5 5 11 Total 60 128 108 Exploratory(d) Oil 0 4 2 Gas 16 26 14 Dry 5 14 16 Total 21 44 32 Total International 81 172 140 Total Worldwide 862 319 233 (a) Includes the number of wells completed during the applicable year regardless of the year in which drilling was initiated. Does not include any wells where drilling operations were continuing or were temporarily suspended as of the end of the applicable year. A dry well is a well found to be incapable of producing hydrocarbons in sufficient quantities to justify completion. A productive well is an exploratory or development well that is not a dry well. (b) Includes Marathons equity interest in MKM Partners L.P. ("MKM"). Also includes Marathons ownership of Pennaco Energy Company ("Pennaco"), acquired in February 2001. Pennaco is a coal bed methane exploration and production company with a very active drilling program. (c) Indicates wells drilled in the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir. (d) Includes both wildcat and delineation wells. (e) Includes Marathons equity interest in CLAM Petroleum B.V. ("CLAM") and in 2000 and 1999 Marathons equity interest in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. ("Sakhalin Energy"). United States In the United States during 2001, Marathon drilled 26 gross (19 net) wildcat and delineation ("exploratory") wells of which 20 gross (12 net) wells encountered hydrocarbons. Of these 20 wells, 2 gross (1 net) wells were temporarily suspended, and will be reported in the Net Productive and Dry Wells Completed table in Marathons future reports when completed. Marathons principal domestic exploratory and development activities in 2001 were in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and the states of Alaska, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas and Wyoming. Exploration expenditures in the United States during the three year period ended December 31, 2001, including Marathons 85 percent equity interest in MKMs exploration expenditures, totaled $492 million, of which $190 million was incurred in 2001. Development expenditures in the United States during the three year period ended December 31, 2001, including Marathons 85 percent equity interest in MKMs development expenditures, totaled $887 million, of which $367 million was incurred in 2001. 9 The following is a summary of recent, significant exploration and development activity in the United States including discussion, as deemed appropriate, of completed wells, wells being drilled and wells under evaluation. Gulf of Mexico The Gulf of Mexico ("Gulf") continues to be a core area for Marathon with the potential to add new reserves and increase production. At the end of 2001, Marathon had interests in 145 blocks in the Gulf, including 110 in the deepwater area. In 2002, Marathon plans to drill, or complete drilling operations on, three or four deepwater wells, including appraisal of the Ozona Deep discovery. Marathons 2001 Gulf exploration drilling program was delayed due to the cancellation of the contract for the Cajun Express drilling rig in early July 2001. Of the two wells originally scheduled to be drilled with this rig, the Flathead prospect was delayed until December 2001, and resumption of drilling operations on the Redwood prospect were delayed until January 2002. The Flathead prospect, located in Walker Ridge Block 30, was plugged back to a shallower depth and temporarily abandoned. After further evaluations, Marathon will consider possible options to reenter and sidetrack this well. Marathon holds a 100 percent interest in Block 30. The Redwood prospect, located in Green Canyon Block 1001, completed drilling operations in 2002 and was abandoned as a dry hole. Marathon held a 75 percent interest in Block 1001. Marathon held an 8.25 percent interest in the Timber Wolf prospect, located in Mississippi Canyon 555, which was temporarily abandoned pending further evaluation. Additionally, Marathon participated in the drilling of two other Gulf prospects in 2001. The Paris Carver prospect, located in Green Canyon Block 601, did not encounter hydrocarbons and was abandoned. Marathon holds a 50 percent interest in Block 601. The Ozona Deep prospect, located in Garden Banks Block 515 resulted in a deepwater discovery. The well was drilled to a total measured depth of 26,352 feet and encountered approximately 345 feet of net pay in two primary intervals. Further appraisal drilling is expected to be conducted during 2002 to determine a plan of development. Marathon is operator and has a 68 percent working interest. The Camden Hills field, located in the deepwater Gulf on Mississippi Canyon Block 348 in approximately 7,200 feet of water, was discovered in August 1999 and confirmed by a subsequent well in January 2000. Development is being achieved with the sharing of infrastructure that will service two other fields in the area. The Canyon Express natural gas gathering system will link three gas fields, including Camden Hills, to a host processing platform named Canyon Station. Completion of the discovery well is underway, and installation of the Canyon Express pipeline began in January 2002 after a three month delay in obtaining permits. Despite the delays, first gas production continues to be targeted for mid 2002. Marathon is operator of the Camden Hills field with a 50.03 percent interest. Alaska During 2001, Marathon completed successful drilling operations on six wells in Alaska. Included in this program were two exploration wells related to the recently announced natural gas discovery on the Ninilchik Unit on the Kenai Peninsula, approximately 35 miles south of Kenai, Alaska. Proved remaining reserves at year end 2001 are approximately 19 billion net cubic feet ("bcf") of natural gas. One well is scheduled for drilling in 2002, with additional drilling anticipated during 2003 to further delineate the upside potential of the structure. Marathon is operator of the Ninilchik Unit with a 60 percent interest. Marathon and a co venturer have formed the Kenai Kachemak Pipeline Company, LLC, to transport natural gas from the Ninilchik Unit and other potential southern Kenai Peninsula gas prospects for sales into the existing Cook Inlet natural gas infrastructure. Initial production from the Ninilchik Field is planned for early 2004 commensurate with completion of pipeline construction. Marathon announced first natural gas production from its 100 percent owned Wolf Lake Field in November 2001. The Wolf Lake Field is located within the Kenai National Wildlife Refuge approximately 12 miles northeast of Soldotna, Alaska. Ultimate development at the Wolf Lake Field may require up to six natural gas wells at three sites. One well is expected to be drilled in 2002. New Mexico In 2001, nine development wells were completed in the Indian Basin field to take advantage of Marathons earlier expansion of the Indian Basin gas plant. Focus continued this year in the eastern area of the field which accounted for seven of the new wells. These wells extended last years record gross production of 160 million cubic feet per day ("mmcfd") to 180 mmcfd from Marathon operated wells. These new wells, combined with several recompletions of existing gas wells, more than doubled oil production from the field to 6,500 gross barrels of liquid hydrocarbons a day ("bpd"). In 2002, six new well completions and several recompletions are planned in the east Indian Basin area targeting both oil and gas. Oklahoma Marathons 2001 Southern Anadarko Basin exploration efforts focused on a continued Western Oklahoma Granite Wash program, as well as the Cement field Springer/Sycamore play. Exploration drilling efforts resulted in seven successful discoveries. The acquisition of approximately 250 square miles of 3 D seismic data has helped in identifying seven exploration projects (five Granite Wash, two Cement) that are scheduled to be drilled in 2002. 10 Marathon continued to develop the 1998 Granite Wash discovery by drilling 16 development wells in 2001. Current production rates from the Granite Wash play are approximately 24 net mmcfd and 1,300 net bpd. In 2002, current plans are to drill, or participate in the drilling of, 14 additional Granite Wash development wells. Marathon drilled, or participated in the drilling of, 13 development wells in the Carter Knox field in 2001. Most of this activity focused on completing the development plan associated with properties acquired in 2000. Drilling activity continued in the Cement field where efforts focused on continued Springer/Sycamore development. Six development wells were drilled in 2001, resulting in current production rates of 24 net mmcfd, a 60 percent increase over 2000 levels. In 2002, Marathon expects to drill, or participate in the drilling of, eight additional development wells. Texas In West Texas, Marathon formed a joint venture with Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P. ("Kinder Morgan"), which commenced operations in January 2001. The formation of the joint venture included contribution of interests in the Yates and SACROC assets. Marathon and Kinder Morgan have equal voting rights and control is shared equally by both partners. As such, the joint venture is accounted for on the equity method of accounting in which Marathon recognizes its 85 percent share of earnings from the partnership. This transaction has allowed Marathon to expand its interests in the Permian Basin and has improved access to materials for use in enhanced recovery techniques in the Yates field. Wyoming On February 9, 2001, Marathon completed the acquisition of Pennaco Energy Company ("Pennaco"), creating a new core area of coal bed methane production in the Powder River Basin of Wyoming. Pennaco controls more than 400,000 net acres in northeast Wyoming and southeast Montana and is the third largest operator in this very active play. Marathon was successful in retaining the Pennaco expertise in coal bed methane operations and, as a result, was able to execute a significant 2001 drilling program of approximately 660 net wells, which exceeded previous Pennaco annual records. For 2001, annualized production rates averaged 47 net mmcfd, with the December rate reaching 59 net mmcfd. Proved remaining reserves at year end 2001 are approximately 256 net bcf of natural gas. International Outside the United States during 2001, Marathon drilled 31 gross (18 net) exploratory wells in 6 countries. Of these 31 wells, 22 gross (14 net) wells encountered hydrocarbons, of which 1 gross well was temporarily suspended. Marathons expenditures for international oil and natural gas exploration activities, including Marathons 50 percent equity interest in CLAMs exploration expenditures and former 37.5 percent equity interest in Sakhalin Energys exploration expenditures, during the three year period ended December 31, 2001, totaled $338 million, of which $91 million was incurred in 2001. Marathons international development expenditures, including its proportionate share of CLAM and Sakhalin Energys development expenditures, during the three year period ended December 31, 2001, totaled $722 million, of which $265 million was incurred in 2001. On January 3, 2002, Marathon announced the completed acquisition of interests in Equatorial Guinea, West Africa. Through this transaction, Marathon acquired a 52.4 percent interest in, and operatorship of, the offshore Alba Block, which contains the currently producing Alba gas field as well as undeveloped oil and gas discoveries and several possible exploration prospects; a 37.6 percent interest in the adjacent offshore Block D; a 52.4 percent interest in a condensate separation facility onshore Bioko Island; a 45 percent interest in a joint venture onshore methanol production plant; and a 43.2 percent interest in an onshore Liquefied Petroleum Gas ("LPG") processing plant. The acquisition will provide an estimated 250 million barrels of oil equivalent ("BOE") to Marathons proved reserves in 2002. The following is a summary of recent, significant exploration and development activity outside the United States including discussion, as deemed appropriate, of completed wells, wells being drilled and wells under evaluation. United Kingdom Marathon has interests in 34 blocks in the United Kingdom ("U.K.") and other areas offshore of the U.K. In 2000, Marathon acquired an interest in the BP operated Foinaven development in the U.K. Atlantic Margin. Marathons interest is 28 percent in the main Foinaven field (T34), 20 percent in the deeper T35 Foinaven field and 47 percent in the East Foinaven field. First production was achieved in September 2001 from the East Foinaven field, which is estimated to have proved net remaining reserves at year end 2001 of approximately 14 million barrels of liquid hydrocarbons. The satellite field is produced via subsea completions that flow into the existing floating production, storage and offloading ("FPSO") vessel. A third production well is planned at East Foinaven in 2003. Infill drilling in the main Foinaven field was successful in 2001 with one 11 sidetrack, one water injector and two new producers being brought on line. Infill drilling of two additional production wells is expected to continue through spring 2002. Fluid handling upgrades on the FPSO in 2001 have allowed record daily production levels for the field of 132,300 gross bpd. As an interest owner in Foinaven, Marathon also has an 11.465 percent working interest in the West of Shetland gas evacuation line. The line, which is installed and ready for commissioning, will take gas from fields in the West of Shetlands area to the BP operated Magnus platform for injection and enhanced oil recovery purposes. Gas from the Foinaven field, which is currently injected for disposal, will be sold to the Magnus group, with sales expected to commence in early 2002 upon completion of work by the Magnus group. Marathon is continuing its development of the Brae area in the U.K. North Sea where it is the operator and owns a 41.6 percent interest in the South, Central and North Brae fields and a 38.5 percent interest in the East Brae field. Marathons share in the West Brae/Sedgwick joint development increased from 28.1 percent to 41.6 percent in September 2001 when the limit on Sedgwicks share of production from the development was reached. During 2001, Marathon participated in a successful Brae area well that was drilled to a deeper exploration target. The well was completed as a gas and condensate producer from the Brae B platform in June 2001. Well performance continues to be monitored to assess upside potential. Angola In May 1999, Marathon was awarded interests in Blocks 31 and 32 offshore Angola. The blocks, which are located approximately 90 miles northwest of Luanda in water depths between 5,400 and 9,200 feet, are adjacent to Blocks 15, 17 and 18, where major discoveries by others have been made. Marathon presently holds a 10 percent working interest in Blocks 31 and 32, which are operated by co venturers. Surveys of 3 D seismic data have been acquired over both blocks and advanced processing and interpretation of this data continues. One unsuccessful exploration well was drilled on Block 31 in 2001. Two additional wells in Block 31 are scheduled to begin drilling in the second and third quarters of 2002. The initial exploration well in Block 32 is expected to be drilled during the second half of 2002. Canada In November 2001, Marathon was awarded two additional offshore Nova Scotia deepwater exploration licenses, with an effective date of January 1, 2002. Marathon has a 100 and 50 percent interest in exploration licenses ("EL") 2410 and 2411, respectively. This brings Marathons total offshore Nova Scotia exploration license acreage to 1.9 million acres, positioning Marathon as a major player in the developing deepwater Atlantic Canada Gas Province. One shallow water well was drilled in 2001 in EL 2376 (Southampton), which did not encounter hydrocarbons in commercial quantities. It is anticipated that one deepwater well will be completed in EL 2377 (Annapolis) in 2002. In Western Canada, Marathon anticipates drilling six wells in three exploration plays during 2002. Three wells will test the Milo pinnacle reef play, two wells will test the thrust Debolt foothills play, and one well will test a Southern Alberta tight gas sand play. Five of these wells are expected to be completed late first quarter 2002. Denmark In June 1998, Marathon acquired one block in Denmark. A 3 D seismic program was completed in 1999, and evaluation of the data continues in 2002. Gabon In fourth quarter 2001, activities commenced to develop the Azile reservoir of the Tchatamba South field. One existing well is planned for recompletion, and facilities will be added to process the crude oil, which has a higher sulfur content than the existing production. First production from the Azile reservoir is planned for December 2002. Marathon is operator of the Tchatamba South, West and Marin fields in Gabon, with a 56.25 percent working interest. Ireland The Southwest Kinsale field was converted to a gas storage field in 2001. The Southwest Kinsale field, located in the Celtic Sea 30 miles south of Cork, was brought on line in 1999 through a single subsea well tied back to the Kinsale Head fields Bravo platform. In April 2001, gas injection commenced through this existing well and, by October 2001, two additional wells were drilled and tied back to the existing infrastructure. This gas storage facility, which is the first in Ireland, was fully operational in October 2001. Marathon has a 100 percent interest in this field. During 2001, a Petroleum Lease was issued for the Corrib field in the Slyne Trough License 2/93, located 40 miles off the west coast of Ireland. An additional appraisal well was drilled in the field in 2001, bringing the total number of wells drilled and suspended as producers in the Corrib field to five. Development work on the terminal, offshore pipelines, and subsea well equipment will continue during 2002. First gas production is expected at the beginning of 2004. Marathon has an 18.5 percent interest in the Corrib field. Norway In 2000, Marathon participated in a project to modify the Heimdal platform to a processing and transportation center for third party business. Marathon owns a 23.798 percent interest in the Heimdal field and platform. Production of the remaining gas (remnant gas) from the Heimdal field was reinstated on the platform in August 2001, followed by the start up of two planned third party projects. 12 In November 2000, Marathon approved the development of the Vale field, located northeast of the Heimdal field. The single well was successfully drilled and the flowline installed. Topside modifications on the Heimdal platform continue, and the well is expected to be completed and brought on line second quarter 2002. Marathon owns a 46.904 percent interest in this field. An exploration well between the Vale and Heimdal fields has been deferred until 2003 due to platform capacity constraints. In January 2002, Marathon closed its acquisition of varied interests in five licenses in the Norwegian Sector of the North Sea. In the Heimdal area of the North Sea, Marathon acquired an 18.6 percent interest in License 088, which contains the Peik gas condensate discovery; a 20 percent interest in License 102, which contains the Byggve and Skirne gas discoveries and the East Heimdal oil discovery; and a 10 percent interest in License 150, which also contains an oil discovery. Approval of a plan of development is expected in early 2002 for combined development of the Byggve and Skirne fields with first production expected in early 2004. Close to the Brae fields, Marathon acquired a 28.2 percent interest in License 025, which contains the Gudrun oil and gas condensate discovery; and a 10 percent interest in adjacent License 187. In December 2001, Marathon also successfully bid for an additional license in the Heimdal area. Pending Norwegian governmental approvals, this could result in Marathon becoming operator under the license in 2002. Netherlands In 2001, Marathon, through its 50 percent equity interest in CLAM, participated in one development well and four exploration wells in the Dutch sector of the North Sea. The Q4 A3 development well successfully completed the planned development of the Q4 A field. CLAM has a 19.8 percent interest in the field. The exploration well K15 16 was drilled into the K15 Mike Prospect and discovered the K15 FK field. It was suspended as a future producer. CLAM has a 9.95 percent interest in the K15 FK field. The Q4 10 exploratory well was drilled into the Q1 Deep Prospect, discovering the Q1 B field. The well was suspended as a future producer. CLAM has a 3.6 percent interest in the field. Two delineation wells were drilled into potential extensions of the F16 E field. The E18 4 well proved up additional reserves and was suspended as a future producer. The E18 5 well was abandoned as a dry hole. CLAMs interest in the F16 E field is 4.2 percent. In 1998, CLAM was awarded two blocks in the Danish sector of the North Sea. Surveys of 3 D seismic data were acquired in 1999 and two exploration wells were drilled in 2000, both of which were dry. CLAM is seeking ways of meeting the minimum requirements of the Danish authorities for relinquishment of the two blocks at a minimum cost. Independent of its interest in CLAM, Marathon holds a 24 percent working interest in the A 15 Block in the Dutch sector of the North Sea. Evaluation of the deeper sands is expected to continue during 2002. The above discussions include forward looking statements concerning various projects, plans to acquire interests in licenses, drilling plans, expected production and sales levels, reserves and dates of initial production, which are based on a number of assumptions, including (among others) prices, amount of capital available for exploration and development, worldwide supply and demand for petroleum products, regulatory constraints, reserve estimates, production decline rates of mature fields, reserve replacement rates, drilling rig availability, license relinquishments and other geological, operating and economic considerations. Offshore production and marine operations in areas such as the Gulf of Mexico, the North Sea, the U.K. Atlantic Margin, the Celtic Sea, offshore Nova Scotia and offshore West Africa are also subject to severe weather conditions, such as hurricanes or violent storms or other hazards. The plan to acquire an additional license in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea is subject to the execution and closing of definitive agreements, and the receipt of necessary approvals from the applicable Norwegian authorities. In addition, development of new production properties in countries outside the United States may require protracted negotiations with host governments and is frequently subject to political considerations and tax regulations, which could adversely affect the economics of projects. To the extent these assumptions prove inaccurate and or negotiations and other considerations are not satisfactorily resolved, actual results could be materially different than present expectations. Reserves At December 31, 2001, Marathons net proved liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas reserves, including its proportionate share of equity investee net proved reserves, totaled approximately 1 billion barrels on a barrel of oil equivalent ("BOE") basis, of which 72 percent were located in the United States. (For purposes of determining BOE, natural gas volumes are converted to approximate liquid hydrocarbon barrels by dividing the natural gas volumes expressed in thousands of cubic feet ("mcf") by 6. The liquid hydrocarbon volume is added to the barrel equivalent of gas volume to obtain BOE.) On a BOE basis, excluding dispositions, Marathon replaced 62 percent of its worldwide oil and gas production. 13 The table below sets forth estimated quantities of net proved oil and gas reserves at the end of each of the last three years. Estimated Quantities of Net Proved Oil and Gas Reserves at December 31 Developed & Developed Undeveloped (Millions of Barrels) 2001 2000 1999 2001 2000 1999 Liquid Hydrocarbons United States............................ 243 414 476 268 458 520 Europe................................... 69 74 90 88 108 90 Other International...................... 25 57 72 30 151 187 Total Consolidated...................... 337 545 638 386 717 797 Equity Investees(a)...................... 178 69 184 77 WORLDWIDE.................................. 515 545 707 570 717 874 Developed reserves as % of total net proved reserves.................................. 90.4% 76.0% 80.9% (Billions of Cubic Feet) Natural Gas Natural Gas United States................ 1,308 1,421 1,550 1,793 1,914 2,057 Europe................................... 473 563 741 615 614 774 Other International...................... 308 381 497 399 477 833 Total Consolidated...................... 2,089 2,365 2,788 2,807 3,005 3,664 Equity Investee(b)....................... 32 52 65 51 89 123 WORLDWIDE.................................. 2,121 2,417 2,853 2,858 3,094 3,787 Developed reserves as % of total net proved reserves.................................. 74.2% 78.1% 75.3% (Millions of Barrels) Total BOEs United States............................ 461 651 734 567 777 863 Europe................................... 148 168 213 190 211 219 Other International...................... 76 121 155 96 231 326 Total Consolidated...................... 685 940 1,102 853 1,219 1,408 Equity Investees(a)...................... 183 9 80 193 15 98 WORLDWIDE.................................. 868 949 1,182 1,046 1,234 1,506 Developed reserves as % of total net proved reserves.................................. 83.0% 76.9% 78.5% (a) Represents Marathons equity interests in MKM and CLAM in 2001 and CLAM and Sakhalin Energy in 2000 and 1999. (b) Represents Marathons equity interests in CLAM. The above estimates, which are forward looking statements, are based on a number of assumptions, including (among others) prices, presently known physical data concerning size and character of the reservoirs, economic recoverability, production experience and other operating considerations. To the extent these assumptions prove inaccurate, actual recoveries could be materially different than current estimates. For additional details of estimated quantities of net proved oil and gas reserves at the end of each of the last three years, see "Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities Estimated Quantities of Proved Oil and Gas Reserves" on pages F 36 through F 38. Marathon has filed reports with the U.S. Department of Energy ("DOE") for the years 2000 and 1999 disclosing the year end estimated oil and gas reserves. Marathon will file a similar report for 2001. The year end estimates reported to the DOE are the same as the estimates reported in the Consolidated Supplementary Data. Delivery Commitments Marathon has commitments to deliver fixed and determinable quantities of natural gas to customers under a variety of contractual arrangements. In Alaska, Marathon has two long term sales contracts with the local utility companies, which obligates Marathon to supply approximately 270 bcf of natural gas over the remaining life of these contracts. In addition, Marathon has a 30 percent ownership interest in a Kenai, Alaska, liquefied natural gas ("LNG") plant and a proportionate share of the long term LNG sales obligation to two Japanese utility companies. This obligation is 14 estimated to total 178 bcf through the remaining life of the contract, which terminates March 31, 2009. These commitments are structured with variable pricing terms. Marathons production from various gas fields in the Cook Inlet supply the natural gas to service these contracts. Marathons proved reserves and estimated production rates in the Cook Inlet sufficiently meet these contractual obligations. In the U.K., Marathon has two long term sales contracts with utility companies, which obligate Marathon to supply approximately 269 bcf of natural gas over the remaining life of these contracts. Marathons Brae area production, together with natural gas acquired for injection and subsequent resale, will supply the natural gas to service these contracts. Marathons Brae area proved reserves, acquired natural gas contracts and estimated production rates sufficiently meet these contractual obligations. The terms of these gas sales contracts also reflect variable pricing structures. Oil and Gas Acreage The following table sets forth, by geographic area, the developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage that Marathon held as of December 31, 2001: Gross and Net Acreage Developed & Developed Undeveloped Undeveloped (Thousands of Acres) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net United States............................. 1,955 845 3,435 1,862 5,390 2,707 Europe.................................... 351 289 1,843 881 2,194 1,170 Other International....................... 889 521 6,111 2,190 7,000 2,711 Total Consolidated........................ 3,195 1,655 11,389 4,933 14,584 6,588 Equity Investees(a)....................... 529 63 302 69 831 132 WORLDWIDE................................. 3,724 1,718 11,691 5,002 15,415 6,720 (a) Represents Marathons equity interests in MKM and CLAM. Oil and Natural Gas Production The following tables set forth daily average net production of liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas for each of the last three years: Net Liquid Hydrocarbons Production(a) (Thousands of Barrels per Day) 2001 2000 1999 United States(b).............................................. 127 131 145 Europe(c)..................................................... 46 29 31 Other International(c)........................................ 27 36 31 Total Consolidated.......................................... 200 196 207 Equity Investees (MKM, CLAM & Sakhalin Energy)(c)............. 9 11 1 WORLDWIDE..................................................... 209 207 208 Net Natural Gas Production(d) (Millions of Cubic Feet per Day) United States(b).............................................. 793 731 755 Europe(e)..................................................... 318 327 326 Other International(e)........................................ 123 143 163 Total Consolidated.......................................... 1,234 1,201 1,244 Equity Investees (CLAM and MKM)(e)............................ 31 29 36 WORLDWIDE..................................................... 1,265 1,230 1,280 (a) Includes crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids. (b) Amounts reflect production from leasehold ownership, after royalties and interests of others. (c) Amounts reflect equity tanker liftings, truck deliveries and direct deliveries of liquid hydrocarbons before royalties, if any, excluding Canada, Gabon, Russia and the United States where amounts shown are after royalties. The amounts correspond with the basis for fiscal settlements with governments. Crude oil purchases, if any, from host governments are not included. (d) Amounts exclude volumes purchased from third parties for injection and subsequent resale of 8 mmcfd in 2001 and 11 and 16 mmcfd in 2000 and 1999, respectively. (e) Amounts reflect production before royalties, excluding Canada and the United States where amounts shown are after royalties. 15 At year end 2001, Marathon was producing crude oil and or natural gas in seven countries, including the United States. Marathons worldwide liquid hydrocarbon production, including Marathons proportionate share of equity investees production, increased one percent over 2000 levels. Marathons 2001 worldwide sales of natural gas production, including Marathons proportionate share of equity investees production, increased approximately three percent from 2000. In addition to sales of 441 net mmcfd of international natural gas production, Marathon sold 8 net mmcfd of natural gas acquired for injection and resale during 2001. In total, Marathons 2001 worldwide production averaged 421,000 BOE per day. In 2002, Marathons worldwide production is expected to average 430,000 BOE per day. The above projection of 2002 worldwide liquid hydrocarbon production and natural gas volumes is a forward looking statement. Some factors that could potentially affect timing and levels of production include pricing, supply and demand for petroleum products, amount of capital available for exploration and development, regulatory constraints, reserve estimates, reserve replacement rates, production decline rates of mature fields, timing of commencing production from new wells, drilling rig availability, future acquisitions of producing properties, and other geological, operating and economic considerations. These factors (among others) could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward looking statement. United States Including Marathons proportionate share of equity investee production, approximately 65 percent of Marathons 2001 worldwide liquid hydrocarbon production, and 63 percent of its worldwide natural gas production were from domestic operations. Marathons principal domestic producing areas are located in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and the states of Alaska, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas and Wyoming. Marathons ongoing domestic growth strategy is to apply its technical expertise in fields with undeveloped potential, to dispose of interests in non core properties with limited upside potential and high production costs, and to acquire significant working interests in properties with high development potential. Gulf of Mexico During 2001, Marathons Gulf of Mexico production averaged 71,600 net bpd of liquid hydrocarbons and 112 net mmcfd of natural gas, representing 53 percent and 14 percent of Marathons total U.S. liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas production, respectively. Liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas production increased by 10,000 net bpd and by 24 net mmcfd, respectively, from the prior year, mainly due to the ramp up and full years production from Viosca Knoll 786 (Petronius) and the addition of Ursa which Marathon acquired in the December 2000 Sakhalin Energy exchange with Shell. At year end 2001, Marathon held working interests in 9 producing fields and 17 platforms, of which 7 platforms are operated by Marathon. Production from Marathons interests in the deepwater Gulf accounted for approximately 93 percent of total Gulf of Mexico production in 2001. Major components of Marathons deepwater portfolio include the Marathon operated Ewing Bank 873, 917, and 963 and the co venturer operated Green Canyon 244 and Viosca Knoll 786. Alaska Marathons production from Alaska averaged 179 net mmcfd of natural gas in 2001, compared with 160 net mmcfd in 2000. Marathons primary focus in Alaska is the expansion of its natural gas business through exploration, development and marketing. New Mexico Production in New Mexico, primarily from the Indian Basin field, averaged 15,000 net bpd and 150 net mmcfd in 2001, compared with 12,600 net bpd and 121 net mmcfd in 2000. The increase in gas production was primarily due to ongoing development of the eastern area of the Indian Basin field and was preceded by the expansion in 2000 of Marathons Indian Basin Gas Plant. Oklahoma Gas production for 2001 averaged 124 net mmcfd, representing 16 percent of Marathons total U.S. gas production, compared with 151 net mmcfd in 2000. The decrease in gas production was primarily due to the decline in Knox Morrow production. Texas Onshore production for 2001 averaged 17,400 net bpd of liquid hydrocarbons and 111 net mmcfd of natural gas, representing 13 percent of Marathons total U.S. liquid hydrocarbon and 14 percent of natural gas production. Liquid production volumes decreased by 6,000 net bpd from 2000 levels, and gas volumes decreased by 21 net mmcfd from 2000 levels. The volume decreases were mainly due to natural decline and reduced net volumes from the Yates field due to the contribution of Yates assets to the MKM joint venture. Wyoming Liquid hydrocarbon production for 2001 averaged 24,600 net bpd, representing 18 percent of Marathons total U.S. liquid hydrocarbon production. Average gas production increased to 90 net mmcfd in 2001 compared to 45 net mmcfd in 2000, as a result of the Pennaco acquisition. 16 International Marathon holds interests in liquid hydrocarbon and or natural gas production in the U.K. North Sea, the U.K. Atlantic Margin, the Irish Celtic Sea, the Norwegian North Sea, Canada and Gabon. In addition, Marathon has interests through an equity investee in the Netherlands North Sea and recently completed an acquisition of interests in Equatorial Guinea, West Africa. U.K. North Sea Production from the Brae area averaged 21,700 net bpd of liquid hydrocarbons in 2001, compared with 26,500 net bpd in 2000. The decrease is mainly within the Central and East Brae fields, reflecting field decline. The Brae A platform and facilities act as the host for the underlying South Brae field, adjacent Central Brae field and West Brae/Sedgwick fields. The North Brae field, which is produced via the Brae B platform, and the East Brae field are gas condensate fields. These fields are produced using the gas cycling technique, whereby gas is injected into the reservoir for pressure maintenance, improved sweep efficiency and increased condensate liquid recovery. Although partial cycling continues, the majority of North Brae gas is being transferred to the East Brae reservoir for pressure maintenance and sales. The strategic location of the Brae A, Brae B and East Brae platforms and pipeline infrastructure has generated significant third party processing and transportation business since 1986. Currently, there are 14 agreements with third party fields contracted to use the Brae system. In addition to generating processing and pipeline tariff revenue, this third party business also has a favorable impact on Brae area operations by optimizing infrastructure usage and extending the economic life of the facilities. Marathon owns a 41.6 percent interest in the Brae group which owns a 50 percent interest in the Scottish Area Gas Evacuation ("SAGE") system. The other 50 percent is owned by the Beryl group, which operates the system. The SAGE system provides pipeline transportation and onshore processing for Brae area gas and has a total wet gas capacity of approximately 1.0 bcfd. Pipelines connect the Brae, Britannia, Beryl and Scott fields to the SAGE gas processing terminal at St. Fergus in northeast Scotland. Marathons total United Kingdom gas sales from all sources averaged 242 net mmcfd in 2001, compared with 223 net mmcfd in 2000. Of these totals, 234 mmcfd and 212 mmcfd was Brae area gas in 2001 and 2000, respectively, and 8 mmcfd and 11 mmcfd was gas acquired for injection and subsequent resale in 2001 and 2000, respectively. U.K. Atlantic Margin Production from the Foinaven fields averaged 24,300 net bpd of liquid hydrocarbons in 2001. Ireland Marathon holds a 100 percent working interest in the Kinsale Head, Ballycotton and Southwest Kinsale fields in the Irish Celtic Sea. Natural gas sales were 79 net mmcfd in 2001, compared with 115 net mmcfd in 2000. This reduction is due to natural field declines and changes to the production profile of the Southwest Kinsale field. The Southwest Kinsale field has been converted to a gas storage reservoir, where gas is injected in the summer and produced to meet peak demand in the winter. Norway In the Norwegian North Sea, Marathon holds a 23.8 percent working interest in the Heimdal field. Production of the remaining remnant gas from Heimdal commenced in August 2001 with sales of 5 net mmcfd. Marathon also holds a 46.904 percent working interest in the Vale field. The Vale single well sub sea development will be tied back to the Heimdal platform, with first production expected early 2002. Canada Production in Canada averaged 11,000 bpd and 123 mmcfd in 2001, compared with 18,400 bpd and 143 mmcfd in 2000. During 2001, Marathon executed a strategic plan to rationalize operations in Western Canada. As a result, Marathon disposed of a significant number of non core conventional oil and gas properties as well as all heavy oil assets, equating to approximately 127 million BOE of net remaining proved reserves. Annualized production sold approximated 9,800 net bpd and 30 net mmcfd. Gabon Production in Gabon averaged 16,000 net bpd of liquid hydrocarbons in 2001, compared with 15,800 net bpd in 2000. This increase reflected a full year of production from the Cap Lopez formation of the Tchatamba South field, which began production in December 2000, and a full year of production from the Tchatamba West field, which began production in November 2000. These additions were partially offset by a reduction in Marathons net share of gross production, based on the payout terms of the production sharing contract with Gabonese authorities. 17 Netherlands Marathons 50 percent equity interest in CLAM provides a 5 percent entitlement in the production from 25 gas fields, which provided sales of 31 net mmcfd of natural gas in 2001, compared with 29 net mmcfd in 2000. The following tables set forth productive wells and service wells for each of the last three years and drilling wells as of December 31, 2001. Gross and Net Wells 2001 Productive Wells(a) Service Drilling Oil Gas Wells(b) Wells(c) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net United States.................... 6,550 2,415 4,828 2,935 2,852 856 25 18 Europe........................... 53 20 63 35 27 8 3 1 Other International.............. 508 251 1,352 986 52 25 3 1 Total Consolidated............. 7,111 2,686 6,243 3,956 2,931 889 31 20 Equity Investees(d).............. 2,002 609 83 4 1,142 243 1 0 WORLDWIDE........................ 9,113 3,295 6,326 3,960 4,073 1,132 32 20 2000(e) Productive Wells(a) Service Oil Gas Wells(b) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net United States.................... 8,013 3,113 2,526 1,275 3,103 976 Europe........................... 54 18 66 34 25 9 Other International.............. 927 665 1,450 1,084 136 109 Total Consolidated............. 8,994 3,796 4,042 2,393 3,264 1,094 Equity Investee(d)............... 85 5 WORLDWIDE........................ 8,994 3,796 4,127 2,398 3,264 1,094 1999 Productive Wells(a) Service Oil Gas Wells(b) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net United States.................... 8,654 3,205 3,122 1,396 3,617 1,056 Europe........................... 36 14 65 33 18 7 Other International.............. 1,590 754 1,746 1,214 461 133 Total Consolidated............. 10,280 3,973 4,933 2,643 4,096 1,196 Equity Investees(d).............. 5 2 83 4 1 WORLDWIDE........................ 10,285 3,975 5,016 2,647 4,097 1,196 (a) Includes active wells and wells temporarily shut in. Of the gross productive wells, gross wells with multiple completions operated by Marathon totaled 442, 469 and 478 in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Information on wells with multiple completions operated by other companies is not available to Marathon. (b) Consist of injection, water supply and disposal wells. (c) Consist of exploratory and development wells. (d) Represents MKM and CLAM in 2001, CLAM in 2000 and CLAM and Sakhalin Energy in 1999. (e) Certain amounts have been restated. 18 Refining, Marketing and Transportation Refining, Marketing and Transportation ("RM&T") operations are primarily conducted by MAP and its subsidiaries, including its wholly owned subsidiaries, Speedway SuperAmerica LLC and Marathon Ashland Pipe Line LLC. Marathon holds a 62 percent interest in MAP and Ashland Inc. holds the remaining 38 percent interest. Refining MAP owns and operates seven refineries with an aggregate refining capacity of 935,000 barrels of crude oil per day. The table below sets forth the location and daily throughput capacity of each of MAPs refineries as of December 31, 2001: In Use Refining Capacity (Barrels per Day) Garyville, LA............... 232,000 Catlettsburg, KY............ 222,000 Robinson, IL................ 192,000 Detroit, MI................. 74,000 Canton, OH.................. 73,000 Texas City, TX.............. 72,000 St. Paul Park, MN........... 70,000 TOTAL....................... 935,000 MAPs refineries include crude oil atmospheric and vacuum distillation, fluid catalytic cracking, catalytic reforming, desulfurization and sulfur recovery units. The refineries have the capability to process a wide variety of crude oils and to produce typical refinery products, including reformulated gasoline. MAPs refineries are integrated via pipelines and barges to maximize operating efficiency. The transportation links that connect the refineries allow the movement of intermediate products to optimize operations and the production of higher margin products. For example, naphtha may be moved from Texas City and Catlettsburg to Robinson where excess reforming capacity is available, gas oil may be moved from Robinson to Detroit and Catlettsburg where excess fluid catalytic cracking unit capacity is available, and light cycle oil may be moved from Texas City to Robinson where excess desulfurization capacity is available. MAP also produces asphalt cements, polymerized asphalt, asphalt emulsions and industrial asphalts. MAP manufactures petroleum pitch, primarily used in the graphite electrode, clay target and refractory industries. Additionally, MAP manufactures aromatics, aliphatic hydrocarbons, cumene, base lube oil, polymer grade propylene and slack wax. 19 During 2001, MAPs refineries processed 929,000 bpd of crude oil and 143,000 bpd of other charge and blend stocks. The following table sets forth MAPs refinery production by product group for each of the last three years: Refined Product Yields (Thousands of Barrels per Day) 2001 2000 1999 Gasoline...................................................... 581 552 566 Distillates................................................... 286 278 261 Propane....................................................... 22 20 22 Feedstocks & Special Products................................. 69 74 66 Heavy Fuel Oil................................................ 39 43 43 Asphalt....................................................... 76 74 69 TOTAL......................................................... 1,073 1,041 1,027 Planned maintenance activities requiring temporary shutdown of certain refinery operating units ("turnarounds") are periodically performed at each refinery. MAP completed a major turnaround at its Detroit refinery in 2001. The Garyville, Louisiana coker unit project achieved mechanical completion in October 2001 and was operating at full production capacity by mid December 2001. This unit allows for the use of heavier, lower cost crude and reduces the production of heavy fuel oil. To supply this new unit, MAP entered into a multi year contract with P.M.I. Comercio Internacional, S.A. de C.V. ("PMI"), an affiliate of Petroleos Mexicanos ("PEMEX"), to purchase approximately 90,000 bpd of heavy Mayan crude oil. Marketing In 2001, MAPs refined product sales volumes (excluding matching buy/sell transactions) totaled 19.3 billion gallons (1,259,000 bpd). Excluding sales related to matching buy/sell transactions, the wholesale distribution of petroleum products to private brand marketers and to large commercial and industrial consumers, primarily located in the Midwest, the upper Great Plains and the Southeast, and sales in the spot market, accounted for about 65 percent of MAPs refined product sales volumes in 2001. Approximately 47 percent of MAPs gasoline volumes and 82 percent of its distillate volumes were sold on a wholesale or spot market basis to independent unbranded customers or other wholesalers in 2001. 20 MAP markets asphalt through owned and leased terminals throughout the Midwest and Southeast. The MAP customer base includes approximately 900 asphalt paving contractors, government entities (states, counties, cities and townships) and asphalt roofing shingle manufacturers. The following table sets forth the volume of MAPs consolidated refined product sales by product group for each of the last three years: Refined Product Sales (Thousands of Barrels per Day) 2001 2000 1999 Gasoline...................................................... 748 746 714 Distillates................................................... 345 352 331 Propane....................................................... 21 21 23 Feedstocks & Special Products................................. 71 69 66 Heavy Fuel Oil................................................ 41 43 43 Asphalt....................................................... 78 75 74 TOTAL......................................................... 1,304 1,306 1,251 Matching Buy/Sell Volumes included in above................... 45 52 45 MAP sells reformulated gasoline in parts of its marketing territory, primarily Chicago, Illinois; Louisville, Kentucky; Northern Kentucky; and Milwaukee, Wisconsin. MAP also markets low vapor pressure gasoline in nine states. As of December 31, 2001, MAP supplied petroleum products to about 3,800 Marathon and Ashland branded retail outlets located primarily in Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, Kentucky and Illinois. Branded retail outlets are also located in Florida, West Virginia, Georgia, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Tennessee, Virginia, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, South Carolina and Alabama. In 2001, retail sales of gasoline and diesel fuel were also made through company operated outlets by a wholly owned MAP subsidiary, Speedway SuperAmerica LLC ("SSA"). As of December 31, 2001, this subsidiary had 2,104 retail outlets in 16 states which sold petroleum products and convenience store merchandise and services, primarily under the brand names "Speedway" and "SuperAmerica". Excluding the travel centers contributed to Pilot Travel Centers LLC, as described below, SSAs revenues from the sale of convenience store merchandise totaled $2.3 billion in 2001, compared with $2.2 billion in 2000. Profit levels from the sale of such merchandise and services tend to be less volatile than profit levels from the retail sale of gasoline and diesel fuel. Effective September 1, 2001, MAP and Pilot Corporation ("Pilot") completed a transaction to form Pilot Travel Centers LLC ("PTC"), which combined SSAs and Pilots travel centers. Pilot and MAP each own a 50 percent interest in PTC. PTC is the largest operator of travel centers in the United States with about 230 locations in 35 states. The travel centers offer diesel fuel, gasoline and a variety of other services, including on premises brand name restaurants. PTC provides MAP with the opportunity to participate in the travel center business on a nationwide basis. Supply and Transportation MAP obtains the crude oil it processes from negotiated contracts and spot purchases or exchanges. In 2001, MAPs net purchases of U.S. crude oil for refinery input averaged 403,000 bpd, including 28,000 bpd from Marathon. In 2001, 57 percent or 526,000 bpd of the crude oil processed by MAPs refineries was from foreign sources, including approximately 303,000 bpd from the Middle East. This crude was acquired from various foreign national oil companies, producing companies and traders. MAP operates a system of pipelines and terminals to provide crude oil to its refineries and refined products to its marketing areas. At December 31, 2001, MAP owned, leased or had an ownership interest in approximately 3,450 miles of crude oil trunk lines and 2,847 miles of products trunk lines. MAP owned a 46.7 percent interest in LOOP LLC ("LOOP"), which is the owner and operator of the only U.S. deepwater oil port, located 18 miles off the coast of Louisiana; a 49.9 percent interest in LOCAP LLC ("LOCAP"), which is the owner and operator of a crude oil pipeline connecting LOOP and the Capline system; and a 37.2 percent interest in the Capline system, a large diameter crude oil pipeline extending from St. James, Louisiana to Patoka, Illinois. MAP also has a 33.3 percent ownership interest in Minnesota Pipe Line Company, which operates a crude oil pipeline in Minnesota. Minnesota Pipe Line Company provides MAP with access to crude oil common carrier 21 transportation from Clearbrook, Minnesota to Cottage Grove, Minnesota, which is in the vicinity of MAPs St. Paul Park, Minnesota, refinery. MAP has a 33.3 percent ownership interest in Centennial Pipeline LLC, a limited liability company formed to develop an interstate refined petroleum products pipeline extending from the U.S. Gulf of Mexico to the Midwest. In March 2001, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approved the abandonment of a 720 mile, 26 inch diameter pipeline extending from Longville, Louisiana to Bourbon, Illinois, from natural gas service, thereby allowing conversion to refined products service by Centennial Pipeline LLC. Also as part of the project, a two million barrel terminal storage facility has been constructed and a new 74 mile, 24 inch diameter pipeline extending from Beaumont, Texas, to Longville, Louisiana has been built. Marathon Ashland Pipe Line LLC has been designated operator of the pipeline. The Centennial Pipeline system will connect with existing MAP transportation assets and other common carrier lines. It is expected to be operational in the first quarter of 2002. A MAP subsidiary, Ohio River Pipe Line LLC ("ORPL"), plans to build a pipeline from Kenova, West Virginia to Columbus, Ohio. ORPL is a common carrier pipeline company, and the pipeline will be an interstate common carrier pipeline. The pipeline is currently known as Cardinal Products Pipe Line and is expected to initially move about 50,000 barrels per day of refined petroleum into the central Ohio region. As of December 2001, ORPL had secured all of the rights of way required to build the pipeline. Applications for the remaining construction permits have been filed. Construction is currently planned for summer 2002 pending receipt of permits, with start up of the pipeline to follow in first half 2003. MAPs 88 light product and asphalt terminals are strategically located throughout the Midwest, upper Great Plains and Southeast. These facilities are supplied by a combination of pipelines, barges, rail cars and or trucks. MAPs marine transportation operations include towboats and barges that transport refined products on the Ohio, Mississippi and Illinois rivers, their tributaries and the Intercoastal Waterway. MAP also leases and owns rail cars in various sizes and capacities for movement and storage of petroleum products and a large number of tractors, tank trailers and general service trucks. The above RM&T discussions include forward looking statements concerning anticipated pipeline projects. Some factors that could potentially cause actual results to differ materially from present expectations include (among others) price of petroleum products, levels of cash flow from operations, obtaining the necessary construction and environmental permits, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions and regulatory approval constraints. This forward looking information may prove to be inaccurate and actual results may differ significantly from those presently anticipated. Other Energy Related Businesses Natural Gas and Crude Oil Marketing and Transportation Marathon owns an interest in the following pipeline systems that were not contributed to MAP: Marathon has a 29 percent interest in Odyssey Pipeline LLC and a 28 percent interest in Poseidon Oil Pipeline Company, LLC, both Gulf of Mexico crude oil pipeline systems. Marathon has a 24 percent interest in Nautilus Pipeline Company, LLC and a 24 percent interest in Manta Ray Offshore Gathering Company, LLC, both Gulf of Mexico natural gas pipeline systems. Marathon has a 17 percent interest in Explorer Pipeline Company and a 2.5 percent interest in Colonial Pipeline Company, both light product pipeline systems extending from the Gulf of Mexico to the Midwest and East Coast, respectively. Marathon has a 30 percent ownership in a Kenai, Alaska, natural gas liquefication plant and two 87,500 cubic meter tankers used to transport liquefied natural gas ("LNG") to customers in Japan. Feedstock for the plant is supplied from a portion of Marathons natural gas production in the Cook Inlet. From the first production in 1969, the LNG has been sold under a long term contract with two of Japans largest utility companies. Marathon has a 30 percent participation in this contract, which has been extended to continue through March 31, 2009. LNG deliveries totaled 66.5 gross bcf (20 net bcf) in 2001, up slightly from 2000. Marathon has a 34 percent ownership interest in the Neptune natural gas processing plant located in St. Mary Parish, Louisiana, which commenced operations on March 20, 2000. The plant has the capacity to process 300 mmcfd of natural gas, which is transported on the Nautilus pipeline system. 22 In addition to the sale of its own oil and natural gas production, Marathon purchases oil and gas from third party producers and marketers for resale. Power Generation Marathon, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Marathon Power Company, Ltd., pursues development, construction, ownership and operation of integrated gas and electric power projects in the global electrical power market. Competition and Market Conditions Strong competition exists in all sectors of the oil and gas industry and, in particular, in the exploration and development of new reserves. Marathon competes with major integrated and independent oil and gas companies for the acquisition of oil and gas leases and other properties, for the equipment and labor required to develop and operate those properties and in the marketing of oil and natural gas to end users. Many of Marathons competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than those available to Marathon. As a consequence, Marathon may be at a competitive disadvantage in bidding for the rights to explore for oil and gas. Acquiring the more attractive exploration opportunities frequently requires competitive bids involving substantial front end bonus payments or commitments to work programs. Marathon also competes with its competitors in attracting and retaining personnel, including geologist, geophysicists and other specialists. Based on industry sources, Marathon believes it currently ranks eighth among U.S. based petroleum corporations on the basis of 2000 worldwide liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas production. Marathon through MAP must also compete with a large number of other companies to acquire crude oil for refinery processing and in the distribution and marketing of a full array of petroleum products. MAP believes it ranks sixth among U.S. petroleum companies on the basis of crude oil refining capacity as of January 1, 2002. MAP competes in four distinct markets wholesale, spot, branded and retail distribution for the sale of refined products and believes it competes with about 50 companies in the wholesale distribution of petroleum products to private brand marketers and large commercial and industrial consumers; about 84 companies in the sale of petroleum products in the spot market; 12 refiner/marketers in the supply of branded petroleum products to dealers and jobbers; and over 600 petroleum product retailers in the retail sale of petroleum products. Marathon also competes in the convenience store industry through SSAs retail outlets. The retail outlets offer consumers gasoline, diesel fuel (at selected locations) and a broad mix of other merchandise and services. Some locations also have on premises brand name restaurants such as Subway(TM) and Taco Bell(TM). Marathons operating results are affected by price changes in crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products, as well as changes in competitive conditions in the markets it serves. Generally, results from production operations benefit from higher crude oil and natural gas prices while refining and marketing margins may be adversely affected by crude oil price increases. Market conditions in the oil and gas industry are cyclical and subject to global economic and political events. Employees Marathon had 30,671 active employees as of December 31, 2001, including 27,698 MAP employees. Of the total number of MAP employees, 21,223 were employees of Speedway SuperAmerica LLC, most of whom were employees at retail marketing outlets. Certain hourly employees at the Catlettsburg and Canton refineries are represented by the Paper, Allied Industrial, Chemical and Energy Workers International Union under labor agreements that expired on January 31, 2002. Negotiations are underway on new collective bargaining agreements. Certain hourly employees at the Texas City refinery are represented by the same union under a labor agreement that is scheduled to expire on March 31, 2002. Certain hourly employees at the St. Paul Park and Detroit refineries are represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters under labor agreements that are scheduled to expire on May 31, 2002 and January 31, 2003, respectively. Properties The location and general character of the principal oil and gas properties, refineries and gas plants, pipeline systems and other important physical properties of Marathon are described above. Except for oil and gas producing properties, which generally are leased, or as otherwise stated, such properties are held in fee. The plants and facilities have been constructed or acquired over a period of years and vary in age and operating efficiency. At the 23 date of acquisition of important properties, titles were examined and opinions of counsel obtained, but no title examination has been made specifically for the purpose of this document. The properties classified as owned in fee generally have been held for many years without any material unfavorably adjudicated claim. The basis for estimating oil and gas reserves is set forth in "Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities Estimated Quantities of Proved Oil and Gas Reserves" on pages F 36 and F 37. Unless otherwise indicated, all reserves shown are as of December 31, 2001. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, see "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Capital Expenditures" on page 37. Environmental Matters Marathon maintains a comprehensive environmental policy overseen by the Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee of Marathons Board of Directors. Marathons Health, Environment and Safety organization has the responsibility to ensure that Marathons operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that are in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. The Health, Environment and Safety Management Committee, which is comprised of officers of Marathon, is charged with reviewing its overall performance with various environmental compliance programs. Marathon has also formed an Emergency Management Team, composed of senior management, which will oversee the response to any major emergency environmental incident involving Marathon or any of its properties. Marathons businesses are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These environmental laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act ("CAA") with respect to air emissions, the Clean Water Act ("CWA") with respect to water discharges, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA") with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 ("OPA 90") with respect to oil pollution and response. In addition, many states where Marathon operates have similar laws dealing with the same matters. These laws and their associated regulations are subject to frequent change and many of them have become more stringent. In some cases, they can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup on any responsible party without regard to negligence or fault and impose liability on Marathon for the conduct of others or conditions others have caused, or for Marathons acts that complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them. The ultimate impact of complying with existing laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable, due in part to the fact that certain implementing regulations for laws such as RCRA and the CAA have not yet been finalized or, in some instances, are undergoing revision. These environmental laws and regulations, particularly the 1990 Amendments to the CAA, new water quality standards and stricter fuel regulations, could result in increased capital, operating and compliance costs. For a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance for air, water, solid waste and remediation, see "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies" on page 40 and "Legal Proceedings" on page 26. Marathon has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. To the extent these expenditures are not ultimately reflected in the prices of Marathons products and services, Marathons operating results will be adversely affected. Marathon believes that substantially all of its competitors are subject to similar environmental laws and regulations. However, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities, marketing areas, production processes and whether or not it is engaged in the petrochemical business or the marine transportation of crude oil or refined products. In connection with government inspections at some of its refineries, MAP has received a number of notices of violations of environmental laws from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") and state environmental agencies. In some cases, MAP has entered into consent decrees or orders that require it to pay fines or install pollution controls to settle its alleged liability. For example, MAP agreed to settle alleged violations of 24 several environmental laws, including New Source Review regulations, with a consent decree signed on May 11, 2001. The agreement requires MAP to complete certain agreed upon environmental control programs over an eight year period. The current estimated cost to complete these programs is approximately $300 million in expenditures over the next seven years. The agreement also requires MAP to perform supplemental environmental projects which are expected to cost approximately $8 million. These supplemental environmental projects are being undertaken as part of this settlement of an enforcement action for alleged CAA violations. In addition, MAP paid a $3.8 million penalty in 2001. Air Of particular significance to MAP are new EPA regulations that require substantially reduced sulfur levels in the manufacture of gasoline and diesel fuel. Marathon estimates that MAPs combined capital costs to achieve compliance with these rules could amount to approximately $700 million between 2002 and 2006. Some factors that could potentially affect MAPs gasoline and diesel fuel compliance costs include obtaining the necessary construction and environmental permits, operating and logistical considerations, further refinement of preliminary engineering studies and project scopes and unforeseen hazards. In July 1997, the EPA promulgated more stringent revisions to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards ("NAAQS") for ozone and particulate matter. These revisions had been vacated by the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia and remanded to the EPA for further action. The EPA sought review of the matter by the United States Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court heard the case in the fall of 2000. On February 27, 2001, the Supreme Court affirmed in part, reversed in part and remanded the case to the EPA to develop a reasonable interpretation of the nonattainment implementation provisions insofar as they relate to the revised ozone NAAQS. On remand, the EPA stood firm on the ozone standard, but another part of this case remains with the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals for further determination. Additionally, in 1998, the EPA published a nitrogen oxide ("NOx") State Implementation Plan ("SIP") call, which would require some 22 states, including many states where Marathon has operations, to revise their SIPs to reduce NOx emissions. In December 1999, the EPA granted a petition from several northeastern states requesting that stricter NOx standards be adopted by midwestern states, including several states where Marathon has refineries. The impact of the revised NAAQS and NOx standards could be significant to Marathon, but the potential financial effects cannot be reasonably estimated until the EPA takes further action on the revised ozone NAAQS (along with any further judicial review) and the states, as necessary, develop and implement revised SIPs in response to the revised NAAQS and NOx standards. Water Marathon maintains numerous discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA and has implemented systems to oversee its compliance efforts. In addition, Marathon is regulated under OPA 90, which amended the CWA. Among other requirements, OPA 90 requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel or a facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. Also, in case of such releases OPA 90 requires responsible companies to pay resulting removal costs and damages, provides for substantial civil penalties and imposes criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions. Additionally, OPA 90 requires that new tank vessels entering or operating in domestic waters be double hulled and that existing tank vessels that are not double hulled be retrofitted or removed from domestic service, according to a phase out schedule. Most of the barges used in MAPs river transportation operations meet the double hulled requirements of OPA 90. Single hulled barges owned and operated by MAP are in the process of being phased out. Displaced single hulled barges will be divested or recycled into docks or floats within MAPs system. Marathon operates facilities at which spills of oil and hazardous substances could occur. Several coastal states in which Marathon operates have passed state laws similar to OPA 90, but with expanded liability provisions, including provisions for cargo owner responsibility as well as ship owner and operator responsibility. Marathon has implemented emergency oil response plans for all of its components and facilities covered by OPA 90. Solid Waste Marathon continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in its operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of underground storage tanks ("USTs") containing regulated substances. Since the EPA has not yet promulgated implementing regulations for all provisions of RCRA and has not yet made clear the 25 practical application of all the implementing regulations it has promulgated, the ultimate cost of compliance with this statute cannot be accurately estimated. In addition, new laws are being enacted and regulations are being adopted by various regulatory agencies on a continuing basis, and the costs of compliance with these new rules can only be broadly appraised until their implementation becomes more accurately defined. Remediation Marathon operates certain retail outlets where, during the normal course of operations, releases of petroleum products from USTs have occurred. Federal and state laws require that contamination caused by such releases at these sites be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards. The enforcement of the UST regulations under RCRA has been delegated to the states, which administer their own UST programs. Marathons obligation to remediate such contamination varies, depending on the extent of the releases and the stringency of the laws and regulations of the states in which it operates. A portion of these remediation costs may be recoverable from the appropriate state UST reimbursement fund once the applicable deductible has been satisfied. Accruals for remediation expenses and associated reimbursements are established for sites where contamination has been determined to exist and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. As a general rule, Marathon and Ashland retained responsibility for certain remediation costs arising out of the prior ownership and operation of businesses transferred to MAP. Such continuing responsibility, in certain situations, may be subject to threshold or sunset agreements, which gradually diminish this responsibility over time. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Marathon is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material. However, management believes that Marathon will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. Natural Gas Royalty Litigation Marathon was served in two qui tam cases, which allege that federal and Indian lessees violated the False Claims Act with respect to the reporting and payment of royalties on natural gas and natural gas liquids. The first case, U.S. ex rel Jack J. Grynberg v. Alaska Pipeline Co., et al. is primarily a gas measurement case, and the second case, U.S. ex rel Harrold e. Wright v Agip Petroleum Co. et al, is primarily a gas valuation case. These cases assert that false claims have been filed by lessees and that penalties, damages and interest total more than $25 billion. The Department of Justice has announced that it would intervene or has reserved judgment on whether to intervene against specified oil and gas companies and also announced that it would not intervene against certain other defendants including Marathon. In July 2001, the court in the consolidated proceeding denied defendants motions to dismiss. Marathon intends to vigorously defend these cases. Cajun Express Arbitration Marathon canceled the Cajun Express rig contract on July 5, 2001 for persistent non performance. Transocean Sedco Forex Inc. gave notice of its demand for arbitration on July 19, 2001 in which it sought net lost revenue of an unspecified amount. The contract may have generated $90 million dollars in gross revenues over the remainder of the 18 month period. Arbitration is scheduled for May 13, 2002 in Houston, Texas before one arbitrator applying the American Arbitration Association commercial rules. Marathon believes it properly canceled the contract and intends to vigorously defend against this claim. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of proceedings involving Marathon that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2001, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate outcome of these matters; however, managements belief set forth in the first paragraph under Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" above takes such matters into account. Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA") and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties ("PRPs") for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the 26 substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, Marathon is unable to reasonably estimate its ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of environmental projects may differ materially from those stated in the forward looking statements. At December 31, 2001, Marathon had been identified as a PRP at a total of 13 CERCLA waste sites. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, Marathon believes that its liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with all but one of these sites will be under $1 million per site, and most will be under $100,000. Marathon believes that its liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with the one remaining site will be under $4 million. In addition, there are three sites where Marathon has received information requests or other indications that it may be a PRP under CERCLA but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability. There are also 114 additional sites, excluding retail marketing outlets, related to Marathon where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Of these sites, 13 were associated with properties conveyed to MAP by Ashland which have retained liability for all costs associated with remediation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, Marathon believes that its liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 18 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, 32 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, 12 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million per site and 7 sites have incurred remediation costs of more than $5 million per site. Of the 7 sites, only 1 site as described in the following paragraph has future costs that are estimated to exceed $5 million. There are 32 sites with insufficient information to estimate any remediation costs. There is one site that involves a remediation program in cooperation with the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality at a closed and dismantled refinery site located near Muskegon, Michigan. During the next 10 to 20 years, Marathon anticipates spending less than $7 million at this site. Expenditures in 2002 are expected to be approximately $500,000. Additionally, negotiations are taking place with the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality to eventually perform a risk based closure on this site. In May 2001, Marathon and MAP settled, in a consent decree, EPA allegations that the Robinson refinery did not qualify for an exemption under the National Emission Standards for Benzene Waste Operations pursuant to the CAA. The government had alleged in a federal court lawsuit that the refinerys Total Annual Benzene releases exceeded the limitation of 10 megagrams per year, and as a result, the refinery was in violation of the benzene waste emission control, record keeping, and reporting requirements. The consent decree was approved by the court on July 26, 2001 and requires Marathon and MAP to pay a combined $1.6 million civil penalty and install various controls and other improvements. Marathon and MAP were also required to perform $125,000 in supplemental environmental projects, with these projects undertaken in connection with the settlement of an enforcement action undertaken by the United States. In 1998, the EPA conducted multi media inspections of MAPs Detroit and Robinson refineries, covering compliance with the CAA, the CWA, reporting obligations under the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act, CERCLA and the handling of process waste. The EPA served a number of Notices of Violation ("NOV") and Findings of Violation as a result of these inspections, but these allegations were resolved as part of the New Source Review consent decree which MAP agreed to on May 11, 2001. MAPs settlement with the EPA includes all of MAPs refineries and commits MAP to specific control technologies and implementation schedules for environmental expenditures and improvements to MAPs refineries over approximately an eight year period. The current estimated cost to complete these programs is approximately $300 million in expenditures over the next seven years. MAP is also committed to the performance of about $8 million in supplemental environmental projects and has paid an aggregate civil penalty in 2001 of $3.8 million, as part of this settlement of an enforcement action for alleged CAA violations. MAP believes that this settlement will provide MAP with increased permitting and operating flexibility while achieving significant emission reductions. The court approved this consent decree on August 28, 2001. 27 In 2000, the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental Cabinet ("Cabinet") sent Catlettsburg Refining, LLC a NOV seeking a $150,000 civil penalty for a tank rupture and spill at the Catlettsburg refinery. This matter is pending. In 2000, the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental Cabinet sent Marathon Ashland Pipe Line LLC a NOV seeking a civil penalty associated with a pipeline spill earlier that year in Winchester, Kentucky. MAP has settled this NOV in the form of an Agreed to Administrative Order which was finalized and entered in January 2002 and required payment of a $170,000 penalty and reimbursement of past response costs up to $131,000. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders A description of the matters voted upon by the stockholders of USX Corporation at an October 25, 2001 special meeting was reported in USX Corporations Form 10 Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2001. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters The principal market on which the Companys common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales prices for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in "Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)" on page F 33. As of January 31, 2002, there were 69,264 registered holders of Marathon common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on Marathon common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of Marathon Oil Corporation, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation to do so. In determining its dividend policy with respect to Marathon common stock, the Board will rely on the financial statements of Marathon. Dividends on Marathon common stock are limited to legally available funds of Marathon. 28 Item 6. Selected Financial Data(a) Dollars in millions (except per share data) 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 Statement of Income Data: Total revenues and other income(b)....................... $33,066 $33,799 $23,666 $21,602 $15,670 Cost of revenues (excludes items shown below).................... 23,255 25,417 16,612 14,609 10,217 Selling, general and administrative expenses......... 726 643 498 519 379 Depreciation, depletion and amortization.................... 1,236 1,245 950 941 664 Taxes other than income taxes.... 4,679 4,626 4,218 4,029 3,030 Exploration expenses............. 144 238 238 313 188 Inventory market valuation charges (credits)............... 72 (551) 267 284 Income from operations........... 2,954 1,630 1,701 924 908 Net interest and other financial costs........................... 173 236 288 237 260 Minority interest in income of Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC........... 704 498 447 249 Income from continuing operations before income taxes.......................... 2,077 896 966 438 648 Provision for income taxes....... 759 476 320 137 207 Income from continuing operations..................... 1,318 420 646 301 441 Income (loss) from discontinued operations..................... (169) (9) 59 373 547 Loss on disposition of United States Steel Corporation....... (984) Income before extraordinary losses and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle...................... 165 411 705 674 988 Extraordinary losses............. (7) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle............ (8) Net income...................... $ 157 $ 411 $ 698 $ 674 $ 988 Segment Income From Operations: Exploration and production: Domestic........................ $ 1,124 $ 1,111 $ 494 $ 190 $ 500 International................... 297 420 124 88 273 Refining, marketing and transportation.................. 1,914 1,273 611 896 563 Other energy related business.... 60 42 61 33 48 Segment income from operations.. 3,395 2,846 1,290 1,207 1,384 Items not allocated to segments.. (441) (1,216) 411 (283) (476) Income from operations.......... $ 2,954 $ 1,630 $ 1,701 $ 924 $ 908 Earnings Per Share Common Stock Income from continuing operations Basic........................... $ 4.26 $ 1.35 $ 2.09 $ 1.03 $ 1.53 Diluted......................... $ 4.26 $ 1.35 $ 2.09 $ 1.02 $ 1.52 Net Income Basic........................... $ 1.22 $ 1.39 $ 2.11 $ 1.06 $ 1.59 Diluted......................... $ 1.22 $ 1.39 $ 2.11 $ 1.05 $ 1.58 Dividends paid per share........ $ .92 $ .88 $ .84 $ .84 $ .76 Shares of common stock outstanding (thousands) Basic........................... 309,150 311,531 309,696 292,876 288,038 Diluted......................... 309,510 311,761 310,010 293,435 290,520 Steel Stock Income/(loss) from discontinued operations Basic........................... $ (1.90) $ (.10) $ .67 $ 4.16 $ 6.35 Diluted......................... $ (1.90) $ (.10) $ .67 $ 4.02 $ 5.89 Net Income/(loss) Basic........................... $ (2.73) $ (.33) $ .40 $ 4.05 $ 5.24 Diluted......................... $ (2.74) $ (.33) $ .40 $ 3.92 $ 4.88 Dividends paid per share........ $ .55 $ 1.00 $ 1.00 $ 1.00 $ 1.00 Shares of common stock outstanding (thousands) Basic........................... 89,058 88,613 88,392 87,508 85,672 Diluted......................... 89,058 88,613 88,396 94,943 94,203 (a) Historical data has been restated to reflect the effect of the separation of United States Steel. (b) Consists of revenues, dividend and investee income, gain on ownership change in MAP, net gain/(losses) on disposal of assets and other income. 29 Dollars in millions (except per share data) 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 Other Data: Net cash from operating activities (from continuing operations)................... $2,919 $3,146 $2,008 $1,633 $1,231 Capital expenditures...................... 1,639 1,425 1,378 1,270 1,038 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges(b)..... 7.47 4.06 4.24 2.60 2.55 Ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends(b)............................. 7.26 3.95 4.11 2.51 2.43 Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents................. $ 657 $ 340 $ 111 $ 137 $ 36 Working capital........................... 943 973 937 366 (244) Net property, plant and equipment......... 9,578 9,375 10,293 10,429 7,566 Total assets.............................. 16,129 17,151 17,730 16,637 12,347 Long term debt............................ 3,432 1,937 3,320 3,456 2,476 Minority interest in Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC............................ 1,963 1,840 1,753 1,590 Total stockholders equity................ 4,940 6,764 6,856 6,405 5,400 (b) Amounts represent fixed charges and earnings from continued operations. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations On December 31, 2001, USX Corporation disposed of its steel business through a tax free distribution of the common stock of its wholly owned subsidiary United States Steel Corporation ("United States Steel") to holders of USX U.S. Steel Group common stock ("Steel Stock") in exchange for all outstanding shares of Steel Stock on a one for one basis (the "Separation") and changed its name to Marathon Oil Corporation ("Marathon"). Marathon is engaged in worldwide exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas; domestic refining, marketing and transportation of crude oil and petroleum products primarily through its 62 percent owned subsidiary Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC ("MAP"); and other energy related businesses. The Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Marathons 2001 financial performance benefited from strong worldwide natural gas prices and domestic refining margins. However, later in the year, performance was negatively impacted by lower crude oil and natural gas prices, as well as lower downstream margins, primarily from decreased demand caused by the general downturn in the global economy and warmer than normal weather. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of Marathon. These statements typically contain words such as "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "expects", "targets" or similar words indicating that future outcomes are uncertain. In accordance with "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward looking statements. For additional risk factors affecting the businesses of Marathon, see "Disclosures Regarding Forward Looking Statements" on page 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of consolidated financial statements for Marathon requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the primary financial statements and the related footnote disclosures. Marathon considers the following accounting policies to be most significantly impacted by the estimates and judgments used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Deferred Taxes Oil and gas exploration and production is a global business. As a result, Marathon is subject to taxation on its income in numerous jurisdictions. State and local income taxes are deductible and foreign income taxes in certain circumstances are creditable against U. S. federal income taxes. These interrelationships complicate the assessment of the realizability of deferred income tax assets. Marathon considers future taxable income in making such assessments. Numerous judgments and assumptions are inherent in the determination of future taxable income, including factors such as future operating conditions (particularly as related to prevailing oil prices). The 30 judgments and assumptions used in determining future taxable income are consistent with those used for other financial statement purposes, including the determination of possible impairment of long lived assets held and used. Additionally, generally accepted accounting principles require that Marathon consider any prudent and feasible tax planning strategies that would minimize the amount of deferred tax liabilities recognized or the amount of any valuation allowance recognized against deferred tax assets. The principal tax planning strategy available to Marathon relates to the permanent reinvestment of the earnings of foreign subsidiaries. As a result of the complexities inherent in multiple tax jurisdictions and the focus of generally accepted accounting principles on the proper measurement of deferred taxes recorded on the balance sheet, deferred tax adjustments included in the provision for income taxes do not necessarily correspond with amounts reported in income before income taxes. Property, Plant and Equipment Marathon uses the successful efforts method of accounting for its oil and gas producing activities. The successful efforts method inherently relies upon the estimation of proved reserves, which includes proved developed and proved undeveloped volumes. The existence and the estimated amount of proved reserves affects, among other things, whether or not costs are capitalized or expensed, the amount and timing of costs depleted or amortized into income and whether or not the costs capitalized in the balance sheet should be impaired. Marathons estimation of total proved reserves is a highly technical process performed primarily by in house reservoir engineers and geoscience professionals. The actual recoverability of hydrocarbons can vary from estimated amounts. Due to the inherent uncertainties and the limited nature of reservoir data, estimates of proved reserves are subject to potentially substantial changes, either positively or negatively, as additional information becomes available and contractual and economic conditions change. Marathon adheres to Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ("SFAS") No. 19 for recognizing any impairment of capitalized costs relating to unproved property investments. Generally, the greatest portion of these costs relate to the acquisition of leasehold interests. The costs incurred are capitalized and periodically evaluated as to recoverability, based on changes brought about by general economic factors and potential shifts in the business strategy employed by management. Marathon considers a combination of time and geologic factors to evaluate the need for impairment of these capitalized costs. Contingent Liabilities Marathon accrues liabilities for income and other tax deficiencies in accordance with SFAS No. 5. Such contingent obligations are assessed regularly by Marathons in house tax legal counsel and advisers. In certain circumstances, outside legal counsel is utilized. Each potential issue is assessed individually, although accrued liabilities are aggregated and recorded by jurisdiction and by type of tax. Although it is difficult to predict with any degree of certainty the ultimate outcome of examinations of open tax years, management believes that the recorded amounts are reasonable. Marathon accrues its environmental remediation liabilities in accordance with American Institute of Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA") Statement of Position 96 1. Liabilities for litigation claims and settlements are accrued in accordance with SFAS No. 5. Such contingent obligations are assessed regularly by Marathons in house legal counsel. In certain circumstances, outside legal counsel is utilized. Both environmental remediation liabilities and liabilities for litigation claims and settlements are recognized based on the likelihood of a third party having a viable claim against Marathons assets. Each potential liability is assessed individually. For additional information on environmental liabilities, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. Employee Related Benefits Accounting for pensions and other postretirement benefits involves several assumptions relating to expected rates of return on plan assets, determination of discount rates for remeasuring plan obligations, determination of inflation rates regarding compensation levels and health care cost projections. Marathon develops its demographics and utilizes the work of actuaries to assist with the measurement of employee related obligations. The assumptions used vary from year to year, which will affect future results of operations. Any differences among these assumptions and Marathons actual return on assets, financial market based discount rates, and the level of cost sharing provisions will also impact future results of operations. 31 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Income and Operations Revenues and Other Income for each of the last three years are summarized in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 1999 Exploration & production ("E&P").................... $ 4,580 $ 4,687 $ 3,104 Refining, marketing & transportation ("RM&T")(a).... 27,356 28,849 20,076 Other energy related businesses(b).................. 1,915 1,691 835 Revenues and other income of reportable segments.. 33,851 35,227 24,015 Revenues and other income not allocated to segments: Loss related to sale of certain Canadian assets.... (221) Joint venture formation charges(c)................. (931) Gain (loss) on ownership change in MAP............. (6) 12 17 Net gains (losses) on certain asset sales.......... 124 (36) Gain on offshore lease resolution with U.S. Government........................................ 59 Elimination of intersegment revenues................ (587) (573) (289) Elimination of sales to United States Steel......... (30) (60) (41) Total revenues and other income................... $33,066 $33,799 $23,666 Items included in both revenues and costs and expenses, resulting in no effect on income: Consumer excise taxes on petroleum products and merchandise........................................ $ 4,404 $ 4,344 $ 3,973 Matching crude oil and refined product buy/sell transactions settled in cash: E&P............................................... $ 454 $ 643 $ 732 RM&T.............................................. 3,797 3,811 2,472 Total buy/sell transactions...................... $ 4,251 $ 4,454 $ 3,204 (a) Amounts include 100 percent of MAP. (b) Includes domestic natural gas and crude oil marketing and transportation, and power generation. (c) Represents a charge related to the joint venture formation between Marathon and Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P. E&P segment revenues decreased by $107 million in 2001 from 2000 following an increase of $1,583 million in 2000 from 1999. The decrease in 2001 was primarily due to lower domestic liquid hydrocarbon production and prices, partially offset by higher domestic natural gas prices and production, and gains from derivative activities. The increase in 2000 was primarily due to higher worldwide liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas prices, partially offset by lower domestic liquid hydrocarbon and worldwide natural gas production. RM&T segment revenues decreased by $1,493 million in 2001 from 2000 following an increase of $8,773 million in 2000 from 1999. The decrease in 2001 primarily reflected lower refined product prices. The increase in 2000 primarily reflected higher refined product prices and increased refined product sales volumes. Other energy related businesses segment revenues increased by $224 million in 2001 from 2000 following an increase of $856 million in 2000 from 1999. The increase in 2001 reflected higher natural gas prices and crude oil resale activity, partially offset by lower crude oil prices and natural gas resale activity. The increase in 2000 reflected higher natural gas and crude oil resale activity accompanied by higher crude oil and natural gas prices. For additional discussion of revenues, see Note 10 to the Financial Statements. 32 Income from operations for each of the last three years is summarized in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 1999 E&P Domestic............................................. $1,124 $1,111 $ 494 International........................................ 297 420 124 Income of E&P reportable segment..................... 1,421 1,531 618 RM&T(a) 1,914 1,273 611 Other energy related businesses........................ 60 42 61 Income for reportable segments....................... 3,395 2,846 1,290 Items not allocated to reportable segments: Administrative expenses............................... (162) (136) (108) Gain on offshore lease resolution with U.S. Government........................................... 59 Gain/(loss) on disposal of assets(b).................. (221) 124 (36) Charge on formation of MKM Partners L.P. JV(c)........ (931) Impairment of oil and gas properties, and assets held for sale(d).......................................... (197) (16) Gain (loss) on ownership change in MAP................ (6) 12 17 IMV reserve adjustment(e)............................. (72) 551 Reorganization charges including pension settlement (loss)/gain & benefit accruals(f).................... (14) (70) 15 SG&A costs applicable to Steel Stock.................. (25) (18) (12) Total income from operations........................ $2,954 $1,630 $1,701 (a) Amounts include 100 percent of MAP. (b) In 2001, represents a loss on the sale of certain Canadian assets. The net gain in 2000 represents a gain on the disposition of Angus/Stellaria, a gain on the Sakhalin exchange, a gain on the sale of Speedway SuperAmerica LLC ("SSA") non core stores, and a loss on the sale of the Howard Glasscock field. The net loss in 1999 represents a loss on the sale of Scurlock Permian LLC, certain domestic production properties, and Carnegie Natural Gas Company and affiliated subsidiaries, and a gain on certain Egyptian properties. (c) Represents a charge related to the joint venture formation between Marathon and Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P. (d) Represents in 2000, an impairment of certain oil and gas properties, primarily in Canada, and assets held for sale. Represents in 1999, an impairment of certain domestic properties. (e) The inventory market valuation ("IMV") reserve reflects the extent to which the recorded LIFO cost basis of crude oil and refined products inventories exceeds net realizable value. For additional discussion of the IMV, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. (f) Represents reorganization charges in 2001 and 2000 and pension settlement gains/(losses) and various benefit accruals resulting from retirement plan settlements and voluntary early retirement programs in 2000 and 1999. 2001 reorganization charges include costs related to the Separation from United States Steel. 33 Income for reportable segments increased by $549 million in 2001 from 2000, mainly due to a higher refining and wholesale marketing margin. Income for reportable segments increased by $1,556 in 2000 from 1999, mainly due to higher worldwide liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas prices, and higher refined product margins, partially offset by decreased natural gas volumes. Average Volumes and Selling Prices 2001 2000 1999 (thousands of barrels per day) Net liquids production(a) U.S. 127 131 145 International(b) 73 65 62 Total consolidated 200 196 207 Equity investees(c) 9 11 1 Worldwide 209 207 208 (millions of cubic feet per day) Net natural gas production U.S. 793 731 755 International equity 441 470 489 International other(d) 8 11 16 Total consolidated 1,242 1,212 1,260 Equity investee(e) 31 29 36 Worldwide 1,273 1,241 1,296 (dollars per barrel) Liquid hydrocarbons(a)(f) U.S. $ 20.62 $ 25.55 $ 16.01 International 23.26 26.54 16.90 (dollars per mcf) Natural gas(f) U.S. $ 3.69 $ 3.49 $ 2.07 International equity 2.97 2.76 1.90 (thousands of barrels per day) Refined products sold(g) 1,304 1,306 1,251 Matching buy/sell volumes included in above 45 52 45 (a) Includes crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids. (b) Represents equity tanker liftings, truck deliveries and direct deliveries. (c) Represents Marathons equity interest in MKM Partners L.P. ("MKM") and CLAM Petroleum B.V. ("CLAM") for 2001 and Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. ("Sakhalin Energy") and CLAM for 2000 and 1999. (d) Represents gas acquired for injection and subsequent resale. (e) Represents Marathons equity interest in CLAM. (f) Prices exclude gains/losses from hedging activities, equity investees and gas purchased for injection and subsequent resale. (g) Refined products sold and matching buy/sell volumes include 100 percent of MAP. Domestic E&P income increased by $13 million in 2001 from 2000 following an increase of $617 million in 2000 from 1999. The increase in 2001 was primarily due to gains from derivative activities and higher natural gas volumes and prices, partially offset by lower liquid hydrocarbon prices. The increase in 2000 was primarily due to higher liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas prices, partially offset by lower liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas volumes due to natural field declines and asset sales, and losses from derivative activities. International E&P income decreased by $123 million in 2001 from 2000 following an increase of $296 million in 2000 from 1999. The decrease in 2001 was primarily due to lower liquid hydrocarbon prices, increased depreciation expense due primarily to 2000 reserve write downs and lower natural gas volumes, partially offset by increased natural gas prices, lower dry well expense, and lower foreign royalty and geophysical contract expenditures. The increase in 2000 was mainly due to higher liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas prices, higher liquid hydrocarbon liftings, primarily in Russia and Gabon, and lower dry well expense, partially offset by lower natural gas volumes. 34 RM&T segment income increased by $641 million in 2001 from 2000 following an increase of $662 million in 2000 from 1999. The increase in 2001 was primarily due to a higher refining and wholesale marketing gross margin partially offset by lower SSA gasoline and distillate sales volumes and increased refining and wholesale marketing transportation expense. The increase in 2000 was primarily due to higher refined product margins, partially offset by higher operating expenses for SSA, higher administrative expenses including increased variable pay plan costs, and higher transportation costs. Other energy related businesses segment income increased by $18 million in 2001 following a decrease of $19 million in 2000 from 1999. The increase in 2001 was primarily a result of higher crude oil purchase and resale activity accompanied by increased margins and losses from derivative activities recorded in 2000. The decrease in 2000 was primarily due to losses from derivative activities and the reversal of pipeline abandonment accruals recorded in 1999. Items not allocated to reportable segments: IMV reserve adjustment When Marathon was acquired in March 1982, crude oil and refined product prices were at historically high levels. In applying the purchase method of accounting, crude oil and refined product inventories were revalued by reference to current prices at the time of acquisition, and this became the new LIFO cost basis of the inventories. Generally accepted accounting principles require that inventories be carried at lower of cost or market. Accordingly, Marathon established an IMV reserve to reduce the cost basis of its inventories to net realizable value. Quarterly adjustments to the IMV reserve result in noncash charges or credits to income from operations. When Marathon acquired the crude oil and refined product inventories associated with Ashlands RM&T operations on January 1, 1998, Marathon established a new LIFO cost basis for those inventories. The acquisition cost of these inventories lowered the overall average cost of the combined RM&T inventories. As a result, the price threshold at which an IMV reserve will be recorded was also lowered. In 2001, the IMV reserve adjustment resulted in a charge to income from operations of $72 million. No adjustment was required in 2000. The unfavorable 2001 IMV reserve adjustment was primarily due to the significant decrease in refined product prices, which occurred during the fourth quarter of 2001. Net interest and other financial costs decreased by $63 million in 2001 from 2000, following a decrease of $52 million in 2000 from 1999. The decrease in 2001 was primarily due to lower average debt levels and increased capitalized interest on RM&T projects. The decrease in 2000 was primarily due to lower average debt levels and increased interest income. For additional details, see Note 7 to the Financial Statements. The minority interest in income of MAP, which represents Ashlands 38 percent ownership interest, increased by $206 million in 2001 from 2000, following an increase of $51 million in 2000 from 1999. The increase in 2001 and 2000 was primarily due to higher MAP income. The provision for income taxes was $759 million in 2001, compared with $476 in 2000 and $320 in 1999. The higher 2001 provision is primarily a result of increased income from operations. The 2000 provision included a one time, noncash deferred tax charge of $235 million as a result of the change in the amount, timing and nature of expected future foreign source income due to the exchange of Marathons interest in Sakhalin Energy for other oil and gas producing interests. For additional discussion of income taxes, see Note 18 to the Financial Statements. Discontinued operations in 2001, represents the net income or loss attributed to Steel Stock, adjusted for certain corporate administrative expenses and interest expense (net of income tax effects). The loss on disposition of United States Steel Corporation represents the excess of the net investment in United States Steel over the aggregate fair market value of the outstanding shares of the Steel Stock at the time of the Separation. For additional discussion of discontinued operations, see Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Net income decreased by $254 million in 2001 from 2000, following a decrease of $287 million in 2000 from 1999, primarily reflecting the factors discussed above. 35 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Current assets decreased $574 million from year end 2000, primarily due to a decrease in receivables and assets held for sale, partially offset by an increase in cash and cash equivalents. The decrease in receivables was mainly due to lower year end commodity prices and the decrease in assets held for sale was primarily the result of the contribution of the Yates field assets to the MKM Partners L.P. joint venture. The increase in cash and cash equivalents primarily resulted from cash balances which were attributed in part to United States Steel in prior years. Current liabilities decreased $544 million from year end 2000, primarily due to a decrease in accounts payable, including accounts payable to United States Steel, partially offset by an increase in redeemable securities. The decrease in accounts payable was due to lower year end commodity prices. The decrease in accounts payable to United States Steel resulted from the settlement of 2001 income taxes with United States Steel upon Separation. Under Marathons previous tax allocation policy, income tax settlements with United States Steel generally occurred in March of the following year. Obligations to repay preferred securities reflect securities that became redeemable or that were converted to a right to receive cash upon Separation. These obligations were paid in January 2002. Investments and long term receivables increased $714 million from year end 2000, primarily due to the contribution of assets to MKM Partners L.P. and Pilot Travel Centers LLC joint ventures. Net investment in United States Steel was eliminated with the disposition of the steel business. Long term receivables from United States Steel of $551 million represents long term debt for which United States Steel has assumed responsibility for repayment. Net property, plant and equipment increased $203 million from year end 2000, primarily due to the acquisition of Pennaco Energy, Inc. ("Pennaco"), completion of the coker unit at the Garyville refinery and implementation of an integrated software system, partially offset by the sale of certain Canadian assets and the contribution of travel centers to Pilot Travel Centers LLC. Net property, plant and equipment for each of the last three years is summarized in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 1999 E&P Domestic............................................. $ 2,851 $ 2,229 $ 3,435 International........................................ 2,472 2,924 2,987 Total E&P........................................... 5,323 5,153 6,422 RM&T(a)............................................... 4,010 4,035 3,712 Other(b).............................................. 245 187 159 Total.............................................. $ 9,578 $ 9,375 $ 10,293 (a) Amounts include 100 percent of MAP. (b) Includes other energy related businesses and other miscellaneous corporate net property, plant and equipment. Long term debt at December 31, 2001 was $3,432 million, an increase of $1,495 million from year end 2000. The increase in debt was mainly due to the additional net debt and other financings retained by Marathon upon Separation. See Notes 2 and 13 to the Financial Statements. Preferred stock of subsidiary of $184 million was redeemed in 2001. See Note 23 to the Financial Statements. Stockholders equity decreased $1,824 million from year end 2000, primarily reflecting the distribution of Steel Stock to holders of the former USX U.S. Steel Group common stock. Net cash provided from operating activities (for continuing operations) totaled $2,919 million in 2001, compared with $3,146 million in 2000 and $2,008 million in 1999. The decrease in 2001 mainly reflected unfavorable working capital changes partially offset by the favorable effects of improved net income (excluding noncash items). 36 Net cash provided from operating activities (for discontinued operations) totaled $717 million in 2001, compared with net cash used in operating activities of $615 million in 2000 and $72 million in 1999. This activity is related to the business of United States Steel. Net cash used in investing activities (for continuing operations) totaled $1,999 million in 2001, compared with $923 million in 2000 and $1,174 million in 1999. The increase in 2001 primarily resulted from the acquisition of Pennaco, decreased asset disposals and increased capital expenditures. Proceeds from the disposal of assets in 2001 of $296 million were primarily from the sale of certain Canadian assets, SSA stores, and various domestic producing properties. Proceeds in 2000 were mainly from the Sakhalin exchange, the disposition of Marathons interest in the Angus/Stellaria development in the Gulf of Mexico, the sale of non core SSA stores and other domestic production properties. Proceeds in 1999 were mainly from the sale of Scurlock Permian LLC, over 150 non strategic domestic and international production properties and Carnegie Natural Gas Company and affiliated subsidiaries. Capital expenditures for each of the last three years are summarized in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 1999 E&P Domestic(a) $ 537 $ 516 $ 356 International 400 226 388 Total E&P 937 742 744 RM&T(b) 591 656 612 Other(c) 111 27 22 Total $ 1,639 $ 1,425 $ 1,378 (a) Amounts exclude the acquisition of Pennaco. (b) Amounts include 100 percent of MAP. (c) Includes other energy related business and other miscellaneous corporate capital expenditures. During 2001, Domestic E&P capital spending mainly included exploration and development drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, and natural gas developments in gas basins throughout the western United States. International E&P projects included projects in the North Sea, primarily in the newly acquired Foinaven field, natural gas developments in Canada and exploration drilling in Nova Scotia and Angola. RM&T spending by MAP primarily consisted of refinery modifications, including completion of the coker project at the Garyville refinery, and upgrades and expansions of retail marketing outlets. Other spending primarily consisted of the implementation of an integrated software system. Capital expenditures, excluding the portion of exploration expenditures expected to be expensed, are estimated to be approximately $1.7 billion in 2002, a slight increase over 2001 levels. Domestic E&P spending for 2002 will be primarily focused on onshore natural gas exploration and development and offshore deepwater Gulf exploration. International E&P will primarily continue oil developments in the U.K. North Sea and natural gas developments in Canada and exploration in Angola. RM&T spending by MAP will primarily consist of refinery improvements, including the Catlettsburg refinery repositioning project, upgrades and expansions of retail marketing outlets and transportation assets, including construction of the Cardinal Products Pipe Line. See "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Outlook" on page 42, for additional discussion on the Catlettsburg refinery repositioning project. Other Marathon spending will include funds for natural gas and crude oil marketing and transportation projects as well as various other corporate capital expenditures. An additional $1.1 billion is anticipated for upstream acquisition expenditures, including the recently completed acquisition of interests in Equatorial Guinea. Contract commitments for property, plant and equipment acquisitions and long term investments at year end 2001 were $297 million, compared with $457 million at year end 2000. For further discussion on commitments, see "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity and Capital Resources" on page 38. Costs incurred for the periods ended December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999 relating to the development of proved undeveloped oil and gas reserves, including Marathons proportionate share of equity investees costs incurred, were $365 million, $316 million, and $333 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2001, estimated future development costs relating to the development of proved undeveloped oil and gas reserves for the years 2002 through 2004 are projected to be $308 million, $155 million, and $40 million, respectively. Net cash used in investing activities (for discontinued operations) totaled $245 million in 2001, compared with $270 million in 2000 and $294 million in 1999. This activity related to the business of United States Steel. 37 Net cash used in financing activities totaled $1,290 million in 2001, compared with $911 million in 2000 and $480 million in 1999. Marathon manages its financing activities on a centralized, consolidated basis. Generally, financing transactions were not separately associated with either continuing or discontinued operations but rather were attributed to both businesses. The cash used in 2001 primarily reflects distributions to minority shareholder of MAP, dividends paid and the redemption of the 8.75% Cumulative Monthly Income Preferred Shares ("MIPS"). The cash used in 2000 primarily reflects distributions to minority shareholder of MAP, dividends paid and a stock repurchase program. The cash used in 1999 reflects distributions to minority shareholder of MAP and dividends paid, offset by other net borrowings. Debt Rating Marathons senior debt is currently rated investment grade by Standard and Poors Corporation, Moodys Investor Services, Inc. and Fitch Ratings with ratings of BBB+, Baa1, and BBB+, respectively. Derivative Instruments See "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" on page 45, for a discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk. Liquidity and Capital Resources Marathons main sources of liquidity and capital resources are internally generated cash flow from operations, committed and uncommitted credit facilities, and access to both the debt and equity capital markets. Marathons ability to access the debt capital market is supported by its investment grade credit ratings. Because of the liquidity and capital resource alternatives available to Marathon, including internally generated cash flow, Marathons management believes that its short term and long term liquidity is adequate to fund operations, including its capital spending program, repayment of debt maturities for the years 2002, 2003, and 2004, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies (which are discussed in Note 26 to the Financial Statements). Marathon has a committed $1,354 million long term revolving credit facility and a committed $451 million 364 day revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2001, $475 million had been drawn against these facilities. Additionally, at December 31, 2001, Marathon had an aggregate of $550 million in three other short term credit facilities, of which no amounts were drawn. MAP currently has a committed $350 million long term revolving credit facility and a committed $100 million 364 day revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2001, MAP did not have any borrowings against these facilities or under its $190 million revolving credit agreement with Ashland Inc. Certain securities became redeemable or were converted to a right to receive cash upon the Separation of United States Steel. In early January 2002, Marathon paid $185 million to retire the 6.75% Convertible Quarterly Income Preferred Securities and $110 million to retire the 6.50% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. In early March 2002, Marathon issued notes of $450 million due 2012 and $550 million due 2032, bearing interest at 6.125 percent and 6.8 percent, respectively. Marathon used the net proceeds to repay amounts borrowed to fund the purchase price and associated costs of the January 2002 acquisition of interests in oil and gas properties and related assets in Equatorial Guinea, West Africa. Marathon initially funded this acquisition through a combination of borrowings under long term and short term revolving credit facilities, borrowings under other short term credit facilities and cash on hand. Marathon is not dependent on off balance sheet arrangements to meet its liquidity and capital resource needs. Marathon has used and may use in the future off balance sheet arrangements to fund specific projects. The largest category of off balance sheet arrangements is operating lease obligations, for which contractual cash obligations totaled $422 million at December 31, 2001. Of that total, $160 million related to three agreements which covered two LNG tankers and Marathons headquarters building, respectively. Under those three arrangements, Marathon does not have an ownership interest in the entities that hold the leased assets nor does Marathon hold title to the respective leased assets. These entities were established by financial institutions for the purpose of leasing specific assets to Marathon. Such entities are limited in the type of business activity that can be transacted. 38 The table below provides aggregated information on Marathons obligations and commitments to make future payments under existing contracts as of December 31, 2001: Summary of Contractual Cash Obligations and Commercial Commitments 2003 2005 (Dollars in millions) Total 2002 2004 2006 Later Years Contractual cash obligations (excluding amounts assumed by United States Steel) Short and long term debt................. $3,093 210 529 863 1,491 Capital lease obligations................ 10 1 2 2 5 Off balance sheet arrangements: Operating lease obligations............. 403 86 117 135 65 Operating lease obligations under sublease............................... 16 5 6 3 2 Unconditional purchase obligations...... 70 5 10 10 45 Commercial commitments (excluding amounts related to United States Steel) Throughput and deficiency agreements..... 112 14 16 20 62 Guarantees of the indebtedness of others.................................. 35 35 Contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment..................... 297 184 90 23 Total excluding amounts related to United States Steel.............................. 4,036 505 770 1,056 1,705 Contractual cash obligations assumed by United States Steel Long term debt........................... 470 470 Sale leaseback financing................. 128 11 22 22 73 Off balance sheet arrangements: Operating lease obligations............. 19 7 6 6 Operating lease obligations under sublease............................... 96 18 38 10 30 Commercial commitments related to United States Steel Guarantees of indebtedness of others..... 28 5 23 Total amounts related to United States Steel..................................... 741 41 66 38 596 Total contractual obligations and commercial commitments.................... $4,777 546 836 1,094 2,301 Marathon remains primarily obligated for certain debt and other financings for which United States Steel has assumed responsibility for repayment under the terms of the Separation. In addition, Marathon remains contingently liable for certain operating lease obligations of United States Steel. Marathon has also guaranteed certain obligations related to the business of United States Steel. United States Steel is the sole general partner of Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P., which owns certain coke making facilities formerly owned by United States Steel. Marathon has guaranteed to the limited partners all obligations of United States Steel under the partnership documents. United States Steel may dissolve the partnership under certain circumstances, including if it is required to fund accumulated cash shortfalls of the partnership in excess of $150 million. In addition to the normal commitments of a general partner, United States Steel has indemnified the limited partners for certain income tax exposures. As of December 31, 2001, United States Steel had no unpaid outstanding obligations to the limited partners and, accordingly, no amounts were reflected in the above table for this guarantee. Excluded from the table is indebtedness of equity investees which Marathon does not support through guarantees or otherwise. If Marathon were obligated to share in this debt on a pro rata basis, its share would have been approximately $353 million as of December 31, 2001. In the event of default by any of these equity investees, Marathon has no obligation to support the debt; however, any such default could adversely impact our financial investment in the respective equity investee. The table excludes commitments to transport crude oil, natural gas and refined products that were not negotiated as part of arranging the financing of the transportation facilities under contract, which totaled $780 million at December 31, 2001. The table also excludes contractual obligations under long term agreements to purchase crude oil, refinery feedstock and refined products used in day to day operations to generate revenues. Marathon managements opinion concerning liquidity and Marathons ability to avail itself in the future of the financing options mentioned in the above forward looking statements are based on currently available information. To the extent that this information proves to be inaccurate, future availability of financing may be adversely affected. Factors that affect the availability of financing include the performance of Marathon (as measured by various factors including cash provided from operating activities), the state of worldwide debt and equity markets, investor perceptions and expectations of past and future performance, the global financial climate, and, in particular, with respect to borrowings, the levels of Marathons outstanding debt and credit ratings by rating agencies. 39 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies Marathon has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of Marathons products and services, operating results will be adversely affected. Marathon believes that substantially all of its competitors are subject to similar environmental laws and regulations. However, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities, marketing areas, production processes and whether or not it is engaged in the petrochemical business, power business or the marine transportation of crude oil and refined products. Marathons environmental expenditures for each of the last three years were(a): (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 1999 Capital...................................................... $ 67 $ 73 $ 46 Compliance Operating & maintenance..................................... 155 139 117 Remediation(b).............................................. 34 30 25 Total..................................................... $ 256 $ 242 $ 188 (a) Amounts are determined based on American Petroleum Institute survey guidelines and include 100 percent of MAP. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries, where permissible, but do not include noncash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. Marathons environmental capital expenditures accounted for four percent of total capital expenditures in 2001, five percent in 2000, and three percent in 1999. During 1999 through 2001, compliance expenditures represented one percent of Marathons total operating costs. Remediation spending during this period was primarily related to retail marketing outlets which incur ongoing clean up costs for soil and groundwater contamination associated with underground storage tanks and piping. Marathon has been notified that it is a potentially responsible party ("PRP") at 13 waste sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA") as of December 31, 2001. In addition, there are three sites where Marathon has received information requests or other indications that Marathon may be a PRP under CERCLA but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability. There are also 114 additional sites, excluding retail marketing outlets, related to Marathon where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Of these sites, 13 were associated with properties conveyed to MAP by Ashland for which Ashland has retained liability for all costs associated with remediation. At many of these sites, Marathon is one of a number of parties involved and the total cost of remediation, as well as Marathons share thereof, is frequently dependent upon the outcome of investigations and remedial studies. Marathon accrues for environmental remediation activities when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. As environmental remediation matters proceed toward ultimate resolution or as additional remediation obligations arise, charges in excess of those previously accrued may be required. See Note 26 to the Financial Statements. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase Marathons environmental costs, may arise in the future. Marathon intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, Marathon does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2002. Marathons environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $130 million in 2002. Predictions beyond 2002 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies, among other matters. Based upon currently identified 40 projects, Marathon anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $157 million in 2003; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. New Tier II gasoline rules, which were finalized by the EPA in February 2000, and the diesel fuel rules, which were finalized in January 2001, require substantially reduced sulfur levels. The combined capital costs to achieve compliance with the gasoline and diesel regulations could amount to approximately $700 million between 2002 and 2006. This is a forward looking statement. Some factors (among others) that could potentially affect gasoline and diesel fuel compliance costs include obtaining the necessary construction and environmental permits, operating and logistical considerations, further refinement of preliminary engineering studies and project scopes, and unforeseen hazards. In May 2001, Marathon and MAP settled, in a consent decree, EPA allegations that the Robinson refinery did not qualify for an exemption under the National Emission Standards for Benzene Waste Operations pursuant to the Clean Air Act ("CAA"). The government had alleged in a federal court lawsuit that the refinerys Total Annual Benzene releases exceeded the limitation of 10 megagrams per year, and as a result, the refinery was in violation of the benzene waste emission control, record keeping, and reporting requirements. The consent decree was approved by the court on July 26, 2001 and requires Marathon and MAP to pay a combined $1.6 million civil penalty, perform $125,000 in supplemental environmental projects, as part of an enforcement action for alleged CAA violations, and install various controls and other improvements. In 1998, the EPA conducted multi media inspections of MAPs Detroit and Robinson refineries, covering compliance with the CAA, the Clean Water Act, reporting obligations under the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act, CERCLA and the handling of process waste. The EPA served a number of Notices of Violation ("NOV") and Findings of Violation as a result of these inspections, but these allegations were resolved as part of the New Source Review consent decree which MAP agreed to on May 11, 2001. MAPs settlement with the EPA includes all of MAPs refineries and commits MAP to specific control technologies and implementation schedules for environmental expenditures and improvements to MAPs refineries over approximately an eight year period. The current estimated cost to complete these programs is approximately $300 million in expenditures over the next seven years. MAP is also committed to the performance of about $8 million in supplemental environmental projects and has paid an aggregate civil penalty in 2001 of $3.8 million, as part of this settlement of an enforcement action for alleged CAA violations. MAP believes that this settlement will provide MAP with increased permitting and operating flexibility while achieving significant emission reductions. The court approved this consent decree on August 28, 2001. In 2000, the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental Cabinet sent Marathon Ashland Pipe Line LLC a NOV seeking a civil penalty associated with a pipeline spill earlier that year in Winchester, Kentucky. MAP has settled this NOV in the form of an Agreed to Administrative Order which was finalized and entered in January 2002 and required payment of a $170,000 penalty and reimbursement of past response costs up to $131,000. Marathon is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. See Note 26 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of certain of these matters. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to Marathon. However, management believes that Marathon will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to Marathon. See "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity" on page 36. 41 Outlook The outlook regarding Marathons upstream revenues and income is largely dependent upon future prices and volumes of liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas. Prices have historically been volatile and have frequently been affected by unpredictable changes in supply and demand resulting from fluctuations in worldwide economic activity and political developments in the worlds major oil and gas producing and consuming areas. Any significant decline in prices could have a material adverse effect on Marathons results of operations. A prolonged decline in such prices could also adversely affect the quantity of crude oil and natural gas reserves that can be economically produced and the amount of capital available for exploration and development. In 2002, worldwide production is expected to average 430,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day, split evenly between liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas, including Marathons proportionate share of equity investees production and future acquisitions. On January 3, 2002, Marathon completed its acquisition of CMS Energys interests in Equatorial Guinea. For a total cash consideration of $993 million, excluding working capital adjustments, Marathon acquired: . a 52.4 percent interest in, and operatorship of, the offshore Alba Block, which contains the currently producing Alba gas field as well as undeveloped oil and gas discoveries and several possible exploration prospects; . a 37.6 percent interest in the adjacent offshore Block D; . a 52.4 percent interest in an onshore condensate separation facility; . a 45 percent interest in a joint venture onshore methanol production plant; . a 43.2 percent interest in an onshore liquefied petroleum gas processing plant. In 2002, Marathon plans to drill, or complete drilling operations on three or four deepwater wells in the Gulf of Mexico, including the appraisal of the Ozona Deep discovery. Other major upstream projects, which are currently underway or under evaluation and are expected to improve future income streams, include: . Norway, where Marathon has completed the acquisition of various interests in five licenses in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea; . Alaska, where Marathon recently had a natural gas discovery on the Ninilchik Unit on the Kenai Peninsula. Additional drilling is planned in 2002. . Angola, where Marathon expects to participate in the drilling of up to three exploration wells during 2002. On February 28, 2002, Marathon announced proposed plans for a major liquefied natural gas ("LNG") re gasification and power generation complex near Tijuana in the Mexican State of Baja California. The proposed complex would consist of a LNG marine terminal, an off loading terminal, onshore LNG re gasification facilities, and pipeline infrastructure necessary to transport the natural gas. In addition, a 400 megawatt natural gas fired power generation plant would be constructed on the site. The complex would supply natural gas and electricity for local use as well as for export to Southern California. Completion and potential start up is projected for 2005. On February 28, 2002, Marathon announced plans to lead an initiative for a new North Sea natural gas pipeline designed to provide additional gas for the U.K. market. The proposed 675 kilometer dry natural gas pipeline would connect the Norwegian Heimdal area of the North Sea to Bacton, on the southeast coast of the U.K. The pipeline would pass through the Brae complex and pass adjacent to other large gas processing/transportation facilities in the U.K. North Sea. The pipeline would terminate at or near the existing Bacton Terminal. The pipeline would allow gas to be aggregated from numerous U.K. and Norwegian North Sea producers for transportation to Bacton where it would then be sold to commercial, industrial and residential customers. Marathon estimates that the pipeline could begin operations in 2005. The above discussion includes forward looking statements with respect to the timing and levels of Marathons worldwide liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas production, and the exploration drilling program. Some factors that could potentially affect worldwide liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas production and the exploration drilling program include acts of war or terrorist acts and the governmental or military response thereto, pricing, supply and demand for petroleum products, amount of capital available for exploration and development, occurrence of 42 acquisitions/dispositions of oil and gas properties, regulatory constraints, timing of commencing production from new wells, drilling rig availability and other geological, operating and economic considerations. These factors (among others) could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward looking statements. Some factors that could affect the planned construction of the LNG re gasification, power generation and related facilities, as well as the North Sea pipeline transportation and related facilities, include, but are not limited to, unforeseen difficulty in the negotiation of definitive agreements among project participants, identification of additional participants to reach optimum levels of participation, inability or delay in obtaining necessary government and third party approvals, arranging sufficient project financing, unanticipated changes in market demand or supply, competition with similar projects, and environmental and permitting issues. Additionally, the LNG project could be impacted by the availability or construction of sufficient LNG vessels. Marathons downstream income is largely dependent upon the refining and wholesale marketing margin for refined products, the retail gross margin for gasoline and distillates, and the gross margin on retail merchandise sales. The refining and wholesale marketing margin reflects the difference between the wholesale selling prices of refined products and the cost of raw materials refined, purchased product costs and manufacturing expenses. Refining and wholesale marketing margins have been historically volatile and vary with the level of economic activity in the various marketing areas, the regulatory climate, the seasonal pattern of certain product sales, crude oil costs, manufacturing costs, the available supply of crude oil and refined products, and logistical constraints. The retail gross margin for gasoline and distillates reflects the difference between the retail selling prices of these products and their wholesale cost including secondary transportation. Retail gasoline and distillate margins have also been historically volatile, but tend to be counter cyclical to the refining and wholesale marketing margin. Factors affecting the retail gasoline and distillate margin include seasonal demand fluctuations, the available wholesale supply, the level of economic activity in the marketing areas and weather situations which impact driving conditions. The gross margin on retail merchandise sales tends to be less volatile than the retail gasoline and distillate margin. Factors affecting the gross margin on retail merchandise sales include consumer demand for merchandise items and the level of economic activity in the marketing area. At its Catlettsburg, Kentucky refinery, MAP has initiated a multi year integrated investment program to upgrade product yield realizations and reduce fixed and variable manufacturing expenses. This program involves the expansion, conversion and retirement of certain refinery processing units which, in addition to improving profitability, will reduce the refinerys total gasoline pool sulfur below 30 ppm, thereby eliminating the need for additional clean fuels program investments at the refinery. The project is expected to be completed in 2004. MAP is working to improve its logistics network and Marathon Ashland Pipe Line LLC has been designated operator of the Centennial Pipeline, owned jointly by Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Company, a subsidiary of CMS Energy Corporation, MAP, and TE Products Pipe Line Company, Limited Partnership. The new pipeline, which will connect the Gulf Coast refiners with the Midwest market, will have the capacity to transport approximately 210,000 barrels per day of refined petroleum products and is expected to be operational in the first quarter of 2002. A MAP subsidiary, Ohio River Pipe Line LLC ("ORPL"), plans to build a pipeline from Kenova, West Virginia to Columbus, Ohio. ORPL is a common carrier pipeline company and the pipeline will be an interstate common carrier pipeline. The pipeline is currently known as Cardinal Products Pipe Line and is expected to initially move about 50,000 barrels per day of refined petroleum into the central Ohio region. As of December 2001, ORPL has secured all of the rights of way required to build the pipeline. Applications for the remaining construction permits have been filed. Construction is currently planned for summer 2002 pending receipt of permits, with start up of the pipeline to follow in first half 2003. The above discussion includes forward looking statements with respect to the Catlettsburg refinery and the Centennial Pipeline and Cardinal Products Pipe Line systems. Some factors which could potentially cause the actual results from the Catlettsburg investment program to differ materially from current expectations include the price of petroleum products, levels of cash flows from operations, obtaining the necessary construction and environmental permits, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions and regulatory approval constraints. The primary factor, which could impact the Centennial Pipeline system, is unforeseen hazards. Some factors, which could impact the Cardinal Products Pipe Line, include obtaining the necessary permits and completion of construction. These factors (among others) could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward looking statements. 43 Accounting Standards Adopted in 2001 Effective January 1, 2001, Marathon adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" (SFAS No. 133), as amended by SFAS Nos. 137 and 138. This Statement, as amended, requires recognition of all derivatives at fair value as either assets or liabilities. For additional information, see Note 4 of the Financial Statements. To be adopted in future periods In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 "Business Combinations" (SFAS No. 141), No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" (SFAS No. 142) and No. 143 "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations" (SFAS No. 143). SFAS No. 141 requires that all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001, be accounted for under the purchase method, eliminating the use of the pooling method. This Statement also establishes for all business combinations made after June 30, 2001, specific criteria for the allocation of the purchase price to intangible assets separately from goodwill. SFAS No. 141 also requires that the excess of fair value of acquired assets over cost in a business combination (negative goodwill) be recognized immediately as an extraordinary gain, rather than deferred and amortized. Marathon will account for the acquisition of certain interests from CMS Energy in January 2002 under SFAS No. 141. SFAS No. 142 addresses the accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets after an acquisition. The most significant changes made by SFAS No. 142 are: 1) goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives will no longer be amortized; 2) goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives must be tested for impairment at least annually; and 3) the amortization period for intangible assets with finite lives will no longer be limited to forty years. Marathon will adopt SFAS No. 142 effective January 1, 2002, as required. At that time, the annual amortization of existing goodwill of $3 million, net of tax, will cease on the unamortized portion associated with previous acquisitions and certain investments accounted for under the equity method. A transitional impairment test is required for existing goodwill as of the date of adoption of this Standard, which must be completed within the first year. Any impairment loss resulting from applying the transitional goodwill impairment test will be reported as a change in accounting principle. Goodwill recorded after adoption of this Standard is to be tested for impairment at least annually and any resulting impairment is not considered part of the change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 143 establishes a new accounting model for the recognition and measurement of retirement obligations associated with tangible long lived assets. SFAS No. 143 requires that an asset retirement cost be capitalized as part of the cost of the related long lived asset and subsequently allocated to expense using a systematic and rational method. Marathon will adopt this Statement effective January 1, 2003, as required. The transition adjustment resulting from the adoption of SFAS No. 143 will be reported as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. At this time, Marathon cannot reasonably estimate the effect of the adoption of this Statement on either its financial position or results of operations. In August 2001, the FASB approved SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets" (SFAS No. 144). This Statement establishes a single accounting model for long lived assets to be disposed of by sale and provides additional implementation guidance for assets to be held and used and assets to be disposed of other than by sale. Marathon will adopt the Statement prospectively effective January 1, 2002. The timing of classifying a long lived asset as held for sale may change as compared to previous accounting standards. 44 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments Marathon uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its price risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of crude oil, natural gas, and refined products. For transactions that qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133, the changes in fair value of the derivative instruments are classified within Other Comprehensive Income, if the hedge qualifies as a Cash Flow Hedge. The resulting deferred gains or losses are subsequently recognized in income from operations, in the same period as the underlying physical transaction. If the hedge position qualifies as a Fair Value Hedge, the resulting gains or losses from the change in fair value of both the hedged item and the related derivative, are reflected within income in that period. Marathon also uses derivative instruments to economically hedge price risk but designates such strategies as nonhedge. Changes in fair value for these contracts is reflected within income in that period. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities are marked to market and the resulting gains or losses are recognized in the current period in income from operations. While Marathons risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that use of derivative instruments along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls does not expose Marathon to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect Marathons results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods. However, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, Marathon is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of crude oil, natural gas and refined products. To a lesser extent, Marathon is exposed to the risk of price fluctuations on natural gas liquids and petroleum feedstocks used as raw materials. Marathons market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand. However, Marathon uses fixed price contracts and derivative commodity instruments to manage a minor portion of its commodity price risk. Marathon uses fixed price contracts for portions of its natural gas production to manage exposure to fluctuations in natural gas prices. Certain derivative commodity instruments have the effect of restoring the equity portion of fixed price sales of natural gas to variable market based pricing. These instruments are used as part of Marathons overall risk management programs. 45 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk CONTINUED Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pretax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent changes in commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000, are provided in the following table:(a) (Dollars in millions) Incremental Decrease in Pretax Income Assuming a Hypothetical Price Change of(a) 2001 2000 Derivative Commodity Instruments(b)(c) 10% 25% 10% 25% Crude oil(d)............................. $ 23.4(e) $ 46.7(e) $9.1(e) $ 27.2(e) Natural gas(d)........................... 8.6(e) 18.2(e) 20.2(e) 50.6(e) Refined products(d)...................... 1.0(f) 3.9(f) 6.1(e) 16.5(e) (a) Marathon remains at risk for possible changes in the market value of derivative instruments; however, such risk should be mitigated by price changes in the underlying hedged item. Effects of these offsets are not reflected in the sensitivity analyses. Amounts reflect the estimated incremental effect on pretax income, after deducting for minority interest. Amounts reflect hypothetical 10% and 25% changes in closing commodity prices for each open contract position at December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000. Marathon management evaluates their portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adds or revises strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions and changes in risk profiles. Marathon is also exposed to credit risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties. The credit worthiness of counterparties is subject to continuing review, including the use of master netting agreements to the extent practical. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2001, would cause future pretax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. (b) The number of net open contracts varied throughout 2001, from a low of 19,040 contracts at July 18, to a high of 41,298 contracts at November 8, and averaged 29,279 for the year. The derivative commodity instruments used and hedging positions taken also varied throughout 2001, and will continue to vary in the future. Because of these variations in the composition of the portfolio over time, the number of open contracts, by itself, cannot be used to predict future income effects. (c) The calculation of sensitivity amounts for basis swaps assumes that the physical and paper indices are perfectly correlated. Gains and losses on options are based on changes in intrinsic value only. (d) The direction of the price change used in calculating the sensitivity amount for each commodity reflects that which would result in the largest incremental decrease in pretax income when applied to the derivative commodity instruments used to hedge that commodity. (e) Price increase. (f) Price decrease. Marathon uses derivative instruments in its exploration and production ("E&P") operations to mitigate the price risk associated with equity production of crude oil and natural gas volumes. In addition, Marathon has sold forward a specified volume of natural gas. Marathon has used derivatives to convert the fixed price in this contract to market prices. The underlying physical contract matures in 2008. Marathon recorded total net pretax derivative gains/(losses) of approximately $85 million in 2001 and $(47) million in 2000. The amounts for 1999 were diminimus. Marathons refining, marketing, and transportation (RM&T) operations generally use derivative commodity instruments to lock in costs of certain crude oil and other feedstocks, to protect carrying values of inventories and to protect margins on fixed price sales of refined products. Marathons RM&T operations recorded total net pretax derivative gains/(losses), net of the 38 percent minority interest in MAP, of approximately $130 million in 2001, $(127) million in 2000, and $13 million for 1999. Marathons trading activity gains/(losses) are included in the afore mentioned amounts and totaled $3 million in 2001, $(11) million in 2000 and $5 million in 1999, respectively. Marathons other energy related businesses are exposed to market risk associated with the purchase and subsequent resale of natural gas. Marathon uses derivative instruments to mitigate the price risk on purchased volumes and anticipated sales volumes. Marathon recorded net pretax derivative gains/(losses) of $(29) million in 2001, $13 million in 2000 and $3 million in 1999, respectively. Marathon is subject to basis risk, caused by factors that affect the relationship between commodity futures prices reflected in derivative commodity instruments and the cash market price of the underlying commodity. Natural gas transaction prices are frequently based on industry reference prices that may vary from prices experienced in local markets. For example, New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) contracts for natural gas are priced at Louisianas Henry Hub, while the underlying quantities of natural gas may be produced and sold in the Western United States at prices that do not move in strict correlation with NYMEX prices. To the extent that commodity price changes in one region are not reflected in other regions, derivative commodity instruments may no longer provide the expected hedge, resulting in increased exposure to basis risk. These regional price differences could yield favorable or unfavorable results. OTC transactions are being used to manage exposure to a portion of basis risk. 46 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk CONTINUED Marathon is subject to liquidity risk, caused by timing delays in liquidating contract positions due to a potential inability to identify a counterparty willing to accept an offsetting position. Due to the large number of active participants, liquidity risk exposure is relatively low for exchange traded transactions. Interest Rate Risk Marathon is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations affecting the fair value of certain non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in year end 2001 and 2000 interest rates is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) As of December 31, 2001 2000 Incremental Incremental Increase in Increase in Non Derivative Financial Fair Fair Fair Fair Instruments(a) Value(b) Value(c) Value(b) Value(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d)................... $ 192 $ $ 171 $ Financial liabilities: Long term debt(e)(f).............. $ 3,830 $127 $ 2,174 $ 86 Preferred stock of subsidiary(g).. 175 15 Total liabilities................ $ 3,830 $127 $ 2,349 $ 101 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 22 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10% decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of Marathons long term debt at December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000. (d) For additional information, see Note 20 to the Financial Statements. (e) Includes amounts due within one year. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or current borrowing rates for financings with similar terms and maturities. For additional information, see Note 13 to the Financial Statements. (g) See Note 22 to the Financial Statements for further explanation. At December 31, 2001 and 2000, Marathons portfolio of long term debt was substantially comprised of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $127 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, Marathons sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect Marathons results and cash flows only to the extent that Marathon would elect to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Marathon is subject to the risk of price fluctuations related to anticipated revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Marathon has used on occasion forward currency contracts or other derivative instruments to manage this risk. At December 31, 2001, Marathon had no open forward currency contracts in place. At December 31, 2000, Marathon had open Canadian dollar forward purchase contracts with a total carrying value of approximately $14 million. A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2000, Canadian dollar to U.S. dollar forward rate, would have resulted in a charge to income of approximately $1 million. Safe Harbor Marathons quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with the use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for crude oil, natural gas, refined products and other feedstocks. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to Marathons hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 47 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations On December 31, 2001, USX Corporation disposed of its steel business through a tax free distribution of the common stock of its wholly owned subsidiary United States Steel Corporation ("United States Steel") to holders of USX U.S. Steel Group common stock ("Steel Stock") in exchange for all outstanding shares of Steel Stock on a one for one basis (the "Separation") and changed its name to Marathon Oil Corporation ("Marathon"). Marathon is engaged in worldwide exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas; domestic refining, marketing and transportation of crude oil and petroleum products primarily through its 62 percent owned subsidiary Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC ("MAP"); and other energy related businesses. The Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Marathons 2001 financial performance benefited from strong worldwide natural gas prices and domestic refining margins. However, later in the year, performance was negatively impacted by lower crude oil and natural gas prices, as well as lower downstream margins, primarily from decreased demand caused by the general downturn in the global economy and warmer than normal weather. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of Marathon. These statements typically contain words such as "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "expects", "targets" or similar words indicating that future outcomes are uncertain. In accordance with "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward looking statements. For additional risk factors affecting the businesses of Marathon, see "Disclosures Regarding Forward Looking Statements" on page 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of consolidated financial statements for Marathon requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the primary financial statements and the related footnote disclosures. Marathon considers the following accounting policies to be most significantly impacted by the estimates and judgments used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Deferred Taxes Oil and gas exploration and production is a global business. As a result, Marathon is subject to taxation on its income in numerous jurisdictions. State and local income taxes are deductible and foreign income taxes in certain circumstances are creditable against U. S. federal income taxes. These interrelationships complicate the assessment of the realizability of deferred income tax assets. Marathon considers future taxable income in making such assessments. Numerous judgments and assumptions are inherent in the determination of future taxable income, including factors such as future operating conditions (particularly as related to prevailing oil prices). The 30 judgments and assumptions used in determining future taxable income are consistent with those used for other financial statement purposes, including the determination of possible impairment of long lived assets held and used. Additionally, generally accepted accounting principles require that Marathon consider any prudent and feasible tax planning strategies that would minimize the amount of deferred tax liabilities recognized or the amount of any valuation allowance recognized against deferred tax assets. The principal tax planning strategy available to Marathon relates to the permanent reinvestment of the earnings of foreign subsidiaries. As a result of the complexities inherent in multiple tax jurisdictions and the focus of generally accepted accounting principles on the proper measurement of deferred taxes recorded on the balance sheet, deferred tax adjustments included in the provision for income taxes do not necessarily correspond with amounts reported in income before income taxes. Property, Plant and Equipment Marathon uses the successful efforts method of accounting for its oil and gas producing activities. The successful efforts method inherently relies upon the estimation of proved reserves, which includes proved developed and proved undeveloped volumes. The existence and the estimated amount of proved reserves affects, among other things, whether or not costs are capitalized or expensed, the amount and timing of costs depleted or amortized into income and whether or not the costs capitalized in the balance sheet should be impaired. Marathons estimation of total proved reserves is a highly technical process performed primarily by in house reservoir engineers and geoscience professionals. The actual recoverability of hydrocarbons can vary from estimated amounts. Due to the inherent uncertainties and the limited nature of reservoir data, estimates of proved reserves are subject to potentially substantial changes, either positively or negatively, as additional information becomes available and contractual and economic conditions change. Marathon adheres to Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ("SFAS") No. 19 for recognizing any impairment of capitalized costs relating to unproved property investments. Generally, the greatest portion of these costs relate to the acquisition of leasehold interests. The costs incurred are capitalized and periodically evaluated as to recoverability, based on changes brought about by general economic factors and potential shifts in the business strategy employed by management. Marathon considers a combination of time and geologic factors to evaluate the need for impairment of these capitalized costs. Contingent Liabilities Marathon accrues liabilities for income and other tax deficiencies in accordance with SFAS No. 5. Such contingent obligations are assessed regularly by Marathons in house tax legal counsel and advisers. In certain circumstances, outside legal counsel is utilized. Each potential issue is assessed individually, although accrued liabilities are aggregated and recorded by jurisdiction and by type of tax. Although it is difficult to predict with any degree of certainty the ultimate outcome of examinations of open tax years, management believes that the recorded amounts are reasonable. Marathon accrues its environmental remediation liabilities in accordance with American Institute of Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA") Statement of Position 96 1. Liabilities for litigation claims and settlements are accrued in accordance with SFAS No. 5. Such contingent obligations are assessed regularly by Marathons in house legal counsel. In certain circumstances, outside legal counsel is utilized. Both environmental remediation liabilities and liabilities for litigation claims and settlements are recognized based on the likelihood of a third party having a viable claim against Marathons assets. Each potential liability is assessed individually. For additional information on environmental liabilities, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. Employee Related Benefits Accounting for pensions and other postretirement benefits involves several assumptions relating to expected rates of return on plan assets, determination of discount rates for remeasuring plan obligations, determination of inflation rates regarding compensation levels and health care cost projections. Marathon develops its demographics and utilizes the work of actuaries to assist with the measurement of employee related obligations. The assumptions used vary from year to year, which will affect future results of operations. Any differences among these assumptions and Marathons actual return on assets, financial market based discount rates, and the level of cost sharing provisions will also impact future results of operations. 31 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Income and Operations Revenues and Other Income for each of the last three years are summarized in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 1999 Exploration & production ("E&P").................... $ 4,580 $ 4,687 $ 3,104 Refining, marketing & transportation ("RM&T")(a).... 27,356 28,849 20,076 Other energy related businesses(b).................. 1,915 1,691 835 Revenues and other income of reportable segments.. 33,851 35,227 24,015 Revenues and other income not allocated to segments: Loss related to sale of certain Canadian assets.... (221) Joint venture formation charges(c)................. (931) Gain (loss) on ownership change in MAP............. (6) 12 17 Net gains (losses) on certain asset sales.......... 124 (36) Gain on offshore lease resolution with U.S. Government........................................ 59 Elimination of intersegment revenues................ (587) (573) (289) Elimination of sales to United States Steel......... (30) (60) (41) Total revenues and other income................... $33,066 $33,799 $23,666 Items included in both revenues and costs and expenses, resulting in no effect on income: Consumer excise taxes on petroleum products and merchandise........................................ $ 4,404 $ 4,344 $ 3,973 Matching crude oil and refined product buy/sell transactions settled in cash: E&P............................................... $ 454 $ 643 $ 732 RM&T.............................................. 3,797 3,811 2,472 Total buy/sell transactions...................... $ 4,251 $ 4,454 $ 3,204 (a) Amounts include 100 percent of MAP. (b) Includes domestic natural gas and crude oil marketing and transportation, and power generation. (c) Represents a charge related to the joint venture formation between Marathon and Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P. E&P segment revenues decreased by $107 million in 2001 from 2000 following an increase of $1,583 million in 2000 from 1999. The decrease in 2001 was primarily due to lower domestic liquid hydrocarbon production and prices, partially offset by higher domestic natural gas prices and production, and gains from derivative activities. The increase in 2000 was primarily due to higher worldwide liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas prices, partially offset by lower domestic liquid hydrocarbon and worldwide natural gas production. RM&T segment revenues decreased by $1,493 million in 2001 from 2000 following an increase of $8,773 million in 2000 from 1999. The decrease in 2001 primarily reflected lower refined product prices. The increase in 2000 primarily reflected higher refined product prices and increased refined product sales volumes. Other energy related businesses segment revenues increased by $224 million in 2001 from 2000 following an increase of $856 million in 2000 from 1999. The increase in 2001 reflected higher natural gas prices and crude oil resale activity, partially offset by lower crude oil prices and natural gas resale activity. The increase in 2000 reflected higher natural gas and crude oil resale activity accompanied by higher crude oil and natural gas prices. For additional discussion of revenues, see Note 10 to the Financial Statements. 32 Income from operations for each of the last three years is summarized in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 1999 E&P Domestic............................................. $1,124 $1,111 $ 494 International........................................ 297 420 124 Income of E&P reportable segment..................... 1,421 1,531 618 RM&T(a) 1,914 1,273 611 Other energy related businesses........................ 60 42 61 Income for reportable segments....................... 3,395 2,846 1,290 Items not allocated to reportable segments: Administrative expenses............................... (162) (136) (108) Gain on offshore lease resolution with U.S. Government........................................... 59 Gain/(loss) on disposal of assets(b).................. (221) 124 (36) Charge on formation of MKM Partners L.P. JV(c)........ (931) Impairment of oil and gas properties, and assets held for sale(d).......................................... (197) (16) Gain (loss) on ownership change in MAP................ (6) 12 17 IMV reserve adjustment(e)............................. (72) 551 Reorganization charges including pension settlement (loss)/gain & benefit accruals(f).................... (14) (70) 15 SG&A costs applicable to Steel Stock.................. (25) (18) (12) Total income from operations........................ $2,954 $1,630 $1,701 (a) Amounts include 100 percent of MAP. (b) In 2001, represents a loss on the sale of certain Canadian assets. The net gain in 2000 represents a gain on the disposition of Angus/Stellaria, a gain on the Sakhalin exchange, a gain on the sale of Speedway SuperAmerica LLC ("SSA") non core stores, and a loss on the sale of the Howard Glasscock field. The net loss in 1999 represents a loss on the sale of Scurlock Permian LLC, certain domestic production properties, and Carnegie Natural Gas Company and affiliated subsidiaries, and a gain on certain Egyptian properties. (c) Represents a charge related to the joint venture formation between Marathon and Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P. (d) Represents in 2000, an impairment of certain oil and gas properties, primarily in Canada, and assets held for sale. Represents in 1999, an impairment of certain domestic properties. (e) The inventory market valuation ("IMV") reserve reflects the extent to which the recorded LIFO cost basis of crude oil and refined products inventories exceeds net realizable value. For additional discussion of the IMV, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. (f) Represents reorganization charges in 2001 and 2000 and pension settlement gains/(losses) and various benefit accruals resulting from retirement plan settlements and voluntary early retirement programs in 2000 and 1999. 2001 reorganization charges include costs related to the Separation from United States Steel. 33 Income for reportable segments increased by $549 million in 2001 from 2000, mainly due to a higher refining and wholesale marketing margin. Income for reportable segments increased by $1,556 in 2000 from 1999, mainly due to higher worldwide liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas prices, and higher refined product margins, partially offset by decreased natural gas volumes. Average Volumes and Selling Prices 2001 2000 1999 (thousands of barrels per day) Net liquids production(a) U.S. 127 131 145 International(b) 73 65 62 Total consolidated 200 196 207 Equity investees(c) 9 11 1 Worldwide 209 207 208 (millions of cubic feet per day) Net natural gas production U.S. 793 731 755 International equity 441 470 489 International other(d) 8 11 16 Total consolidated 1,242 1,212 1,260 Equity investee(e) 31 29 36 Worldwide 1,273 1,241 1,296 (dollars per barrel) Liquid hydrocarbons(a)(f) U.S. $ 20.62 $ 25.55 $ 16.01 International 23.26 26.54 16.90 (dollars per mcf) Natural gas(f) U.S. $ 3.69 $ 3.49 $ 2.07 International equity 2.97 2.76 1.90 (thousands of barrels per day) Refined products sold(g) 1,304 1,306 1,251 Matching buy/sell volumes included in above 45 52 45 (a) Includes crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids. (b) Represents equity tanker liftings, truck deliveries and direct deliveries. (c) Represents Marathons equity interest in MKM Partners L.P. ("MKM") and CLAM Petroleum B.V. ("CLAM") for 2001 and Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. ("Sakhalin Energy") and CLAM for 2000 and 1999. (d) Represents gas acquired for injection and subsequent resale. (e) Represents Marathons equity interest in CLAM. (f) Prices exclude gains/losses from hedging activities, equity investees and gas purchased for injection and subsequent resale. (g) Refined products sold and matching buy/sell volumes include 100 percent of MAP. Domestic E&P income increased by $13 million in 2001 from 2000 following an increase of $617 million in 2000 from 1999. The increase in 2001 was primarily due to gains from derivative activities and higher natural gas volumes and prices, partially offset by lower liquid hydrocarbon prices. The increase in 2000 was primarily due to higher liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas prices, partially offset by lower liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas volumes due to natural field declines and asset sales, and losses from derivative activities. International E&P income decreased by $123 million in 2001 from 2000 following an increase of $296 million in 2000 from 1999. The decrease in 2001 was primarily due to lower liquid hydrocarbon prices, increased depreciation expense due primarily to 2000 reserve write downs and lower natural gas volumes, partially offset by increased natural gas prices, lower dry well expense, and lower foreign royalty and geophysical contract expenditures. The increase in 2000 was mainly due to higher liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas prices, higher liquid hydrocarbon liftings, primarily in Russia and Gabon, and lower dry well expense, partially offset by lower natural gas volumes. 34 RM&T segment income increased by $641 million in 2001 from 2000 following an increase of $662 million in 2000 from 1999. The increase in 2001 was primarily due to a higher refining and wholesale marketing gross margin partially offset by lower SSA gasoline and distillate sales volumes and increased refining and wholesale marketing transportation expense. The increase in 2000 was primarily due to higher refined product margins, partially offset by higher operating expenses for SSA, higher administrative expenses including increased variable pay plan costs, and higher transportation costs. Other energy related businesses segment income increased by $18 million in 2001 following a decrease of $19 million in 2000 from 1999. The increase in 2001 was primarily a result of higher crude oil purchase and resale activity accompanied by increased margins and losses from derivative activities recorded in 2000. The decrease in 2000 was primarily due to losses from derivative activities and the reversal of pipeline abandonment accruals recorded in 1999. Items not allocated to reportable segments: IMV reserve adjustment When Marathon was acquired in March 1982, crude oil and refined product prices were at historically high levels. In applying the purchase method of accounting, crude oil and refined product inventories were revalued by reference to current prices at the time of acquisition, and this became the new LIFO cost basis of the inventories. Generally accepted accounting principles require that inventories be carried at lower of cost or market. Accordingly, Marathon established an IMV reserve to reduce the cost basis of its inventories to net realizable value. Quarterly adjustments to the IMV reserve result in noncash charges or credits to income from operations. When Marathon acquired the crude oil and refined product inventories associated with Ashlands RM&T operations on January 1, 1998, Marathon established a new LIFO cost basis for those inventories. The acquisition cost of these inventories lowered the overall average cost of the combined RM&T inventories. As a result, the price threshold at which an IMV reserve will be recorded was also lowered. In 2001, the IMV reserve adjustment resulted in a charge to income from operations of $72 million. No adjustment was required in 2000. The unfavorable 2001 IMV reserve adjustment was primarily due to the significant decrease in refined product prices, which occurred during the fourth quarter of 2001. Net interest and other financial costs decreased by $63 million in 2001 from 2000, following a decrease of $52 million in 2000 from 1999. The decrease in 2001 was primarily due to lower average debt levels and increased capitalized interest on RM&T projects. The decrease in 2000 was primarily due to lower average debt levels and increased interest income. For additional details, see Note 7 to the Financial Statements. The minority interest in income of MAP, which represents Ashlands 38 percent ownership interest, increased by $206 million in 2001 from 2000, following an increase of $51 million in 2000 from 1999. The increase in 2001 and 2000 was primarily due to higher MAP income. The provision for income taxes was $759 million in 2001, compared with $476 in 2000 and $320 in 1999. The higher 2001 provision is primarily a result of increased income from operations. The 2000 provision included a one time, noncash deferred tax charge of $235 million as a result of the change in the amount, timing and nature of expected future foreign source income due to the exchange of Marathons interest in Sakhalin Energy for other oil and gas producing interests. For additional discussion of income taxes, see Note 18 to the Financial Statements. Discontinued operations in 2001, represents the net income or loss attributed to Steel Stock, adjusted for certain corporate administrative expenses and interest expense (net of income tax effects). The loss on disposition of United States Steel Corporation represents the excess of the net investment in United States Steel over the aggregate fair market value of the outstanding shares of the Steel Stock at the time of the Separation. For additional discussion of discontinued operations, see Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Net income decreased by $254 million in 2001 from 2000, following a decrease of $287 million in 2000 from 1999, primarily reflecting the factors discussed above. 35 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Current assets decreased $574 million from year end 2000, primarily due to a decrease in receivables and assets held for sale, partially offset by an increase in cash and cash equivalents. The decrease in receivables was mainly due to lower year end commodity prices and the decrease in assets held for sale was primarily the result of the contribution of the Yates field assets to the MKM Partners L.P. joint venture. The increase in cash and cash equivalents primarily resulted from cash balances which were attributed in part to United States Steel in prior years. Current liabilities decreased $544 million from year end 2000, primarily due to a decrease in accounts payable, including accounts payable to United States Steel, partially offset by an increase in redeemable securities. The decrease in accounts payable was due to lower year end commodity prices. The decrease in accounts payable to United States Steel resulted from the settlement of 2001 income taxes with United States Steel upon Separation. Under Marathons previous tax allocation policy, income tax settlements with United States Steel generally occurred in March of the following year. Obligations to repay preferred securities reflect securities that became redeemable or that were converted to a right to receive cash upon Separation. These obligations were paid in January 2002. Investments and long term receivables increased $714 million from year end 2000, primarily due to the contribution of assets to MKM Partners L.P. and Pilot Travel Centers LLC joint ventures. Net investment in United States Steel was eliminated with the disposition of the steel business. Long term receivables from United States Steel of $551 million represents long term debt for which United States Steel has assumed responsibility for repayment. Net property, plant and equipment increased $203 million from year end 2000, primarily due to the acquisition of Pennaco Energy, Inc. ("Pennaco"), completion of the coker unit at the Garyville refinery and implementation of an integrated software system, partially offset by the sale of certain Canadian assets and the contribution of travel centers to Pilot Travel Centers LLC. Net property, plant and equipment for each of the last three years is summarized in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 1999 E&P Domestic............................................. $ 2,851 $ 2,229 $ 3,435 International........................................ 2,472 2,924 2,987 Total E&P........................................... 5,323 5,153 6,422 RM&T(a)............................................... 4,010 4,035 3,712 Other(b).............................................. 245 187 159 Total.............................................. $ 9,578 $ 9,375 $ 10,293 (a) Amounts include 100 percent of MAP. (b) Includes other energy related businesses and other miscellaneous corporate net property, plant and equipment. Long term debt at December 31, 2001 was $3,432 million, an increase of $1,495 million from year end 2000. The increase in debt was mainly due to the additional net debt and other financings retained by Marathon upon Separation. See Notes 2 and 13 to the Financial Statements. Preferred stock of subsidiary of $184 million was redeemed in 2001. See Note 23 to the Financial Statements. Stockholders equity decreased $1,824 million from year end 2000, primarily reflecting the distribution of Steel Stock to holders of the former USX U.S. Steel Group common stock. Net cash provided from operating activities (for continuing operations) totaled $2,919 million in 2001, compared with $3,146 million in 2000 and $2,008 million in 1999. The decrease in 2001 mainly reflected unfavorable working capital changes partially offset by the favorable effects of improved net income (excluding noncash items). 36 Net cash provided from operating activities (for discontinued operations) totaled $717 million in 2001, compared with net cash used in operating activities of $615 million in 2000 and $72 million in 1999. This activity is related to the business of United States Steel. Net cash used in investing activities (for continuing operations) totaled $1,999 million in 2001, compared with $923 million in 2000 and $1,174 million in 1999. The increase in 2001 primarily resulted from the acquisition of Pennaco, decreased asset disposals and increased capital expenditures. Proceeds from the disposal of assets in 2001 of $296 million were primarily from the sale of certain Canadian assets, SSA stores, and various domestic producing properties. Proceeds in 2000 were mainly from the Sakhalin exchange, the disposition of Marathons interest in the Angus/Stellaria development in the Gulf of Mexico, the sale of non core SSA stores and other domestic production properties. Proceeds in 1999 were mainly from the sale of Scurlock Permian LLC, over 150 non strategic domestic and international production properties and Carnegie Natural Gas Company and affiliated subsidiaries. Capital expenditures for each of the last three years are summarized in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 1999 E&P Domestic(a) $ 537 $ 516 $ 356 International 400 226 388 Total E&P 937 742 744 RM&T(b) 591 656 612 Other(c) 111 27 22 Total $ 1,639 $ 1,425 $ 1,378 (a) Amounts exclude the acquisition of Pennaco. (b) Amounts include 100 percent of MAP. (c) Includes other energy related business and other miscellaneous corporate capital expenditures. During 2001, Domestic E&P capital spending mainly included exploration and development drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, and natural gas developments in gas basins throughout the western United States. International E&P projects included projects in the North Sea, primarily in the newly acquired Foinaven field, natural gas developments in Canada and exploration drilling in Nova Scotia and Angola. RM&T spending by MAP primarily consisted of refinery modifications, including completion of the coker project at the Garyville refinery, and upgrades and expansions of retail marketing outlets. Other spending primarily consisted of the implementation of an integrated software system. Capital expenditures, excluding the portion of exploration expenditures expected to be expensed, are estimated to be approximately $1.7 billion in 2002, a slight increase over 2001 levels. Domestic E&P spending for 2002 will be primarily focused on onshore natural gas exploration and development and offshore deepwater Gulf exploration. International E&P will primarily continue oil developments in the U.K. North Sea and natural gas developments in Canada and exploration in Angola. RM&T spending by MAP will primarily consist of refinery improvements, including the Catlettsburg refinery repositioning project, upgrades and expansions of retail marketing outlets and transportation assets, including construction of the Cardinal Products Pipe Line. See "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Outlook" on page 42, for additional discussion on the Catlettsburg refinery repositioning project. Other Marathon spending will include funds for natural gas and crude oil marketing and transportation projects as well as various other corporate capital expenditures. An additional $1.1 billion is anticipated for upstream acquisition expenditures, including the recently completed acquisition of interests in Equatorial Guinea. Contract commitments for property, plant and equipment acquisitions and long term investments at year end 2001 were $297 million, compared with $457 million at year end 2000. For further discussion on commitments, see "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity and Capital Resources" on page 38. Costs incurred for the periods ended December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999 relating to the development of proved undeveloped oil and gas reserves, including Marathons proportionate share of equity investees costs incurred, were $365 million, $316 million, and $333 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2001, estimated future development costs relating to the development of proved undeveloped oil and gas reserves for the years 2002 through 2004 are projected to be $308 million, $155 million, and $40 million, respectively. Net cash used in investing activities (for discontinued operations) totaled $245 million in 2001, compared with $270 million in 2000 and $294 million in 1999. This activity related to the business of United States Steel. 37 Net cash used in financing activities totaled $1,290 million in 2001, compared with $911 million in 2000 and $480 million in 1999. Marathon manages its financing activities on a centralized, consolidated basis. Generally, financing transactions were not separately associated with either continuing or discontinued operations but rather were attributed to both businesses. The cash used in 2001 primarily reflects distributions to minority shareholder of MAP, dividends paid and the redemption of the 8.75% Cumulative Monthly Income Preferred Shares ("MIPS"). The cash used in 2000 primarily reflects distributions to minority shareholder of MAP, dividends paid and a stock repurchase program. The cash used in 1999 reflects distributions to minority shareholder of MAP and dividends paid, offset by other net borrowings. Debt Rating Marathons senior debt is currently rated investment grade by Standard and Poors Corporation, Moodys Investor Services, Inc. and Fitch Ratings with ratings of BBB+, Baa1, and BBB+, respectively. Derivative Instruments See "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" on page 45, for a discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk. Liquidity and Capital Resources Marathons main sources of liquidity and capital resources are internally generated cash flow from operations, committed and uncommitted credit facilities, and access to both the debt and equity capital markets. Marathons ability to access the debt capital market is supported by its investment grade credit ratings. Because of the liquidity and capital resource alternatives available to Marathon, including internally generated cash flow, Marathons management believes that its short term and long term liquidity is adequate to fund operations, including its capital spending program, repayment of debt maturities for the years 2002, 2003, and 2004, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies (which are discussed in Note 26 to the Financial Statements). Marathon has a committed $1,354 million long term revolving credit facility and a committed $451 million 364 day revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2001, $475 million had been drawn against these facilities. Additionally, at December 31, 2001, Marathon had an aggregate of $550 million in three other short term credit facilities, of which no amounts were drawn. MAP currently has a committed $350 million long term revolving credit facility and a committed $100 million 364 day revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2001, MAP did not have any borrowings against these facilities or under its $190 million revolving credit agreement with Ashland Inc. Certain securities became redeemable or were converted to a right to receive cash upon the Separation of United States Steel. In early January 2002, Marathon paid $185 million to retire the 6.75% Convertible Quarterly Income Preferred Securities and $110 million to retire the 6.50% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. In early March 2002, Marathon issued notes of $450 million due 2012 and $550 million due 2032, bearing interest at 6.125 percent and 6.8 percent, respectively. Marathon used the net proceeds to repay amounts borrowed to fund the purchase price and associated costs of the January 2002 acquisition of interests in oil and gas properties and related assets in Equatorial Guinea, West Africa. Marathon initially funded this acquisition through a combination of borrowings under long term and short term revolving credit facilities, borrowings under other short term credit facilities and cash on hand. Marathon is not dependent on off balance sheet arrangements to meet its liquidity and capital resource needs. Marathon has used and may use in the future off balance sheet arrangements to fund specific projects. The largest category of off balance sheet arrangements is operating lease obligations, for which contractual cash obligations totaled $422 million at December 31, 2001. Of that total, $160 million related to three agreements which covered two LNG tankers and Marathons headquarters building, respectively. Under those three arrangements, Marathon does not have an ownership interest in the entities that hold the leased assets nor does Marathon hold title to the respective leased assets. These entities were established by financial institutions for the purpose of leasing specific assets to Marathon. Such entities are limited in the type of business activity that can be transacted. 38 The table below provides aggregated information on Marathons obligations and commitments to make future payments under existing contracts as of December 31, 2001: Summary of Contractual Cash Obligations and Commercial Commitments 2003 2005 (Dollars in millions) Total 2002 2004 2006 Later Years Contractual cash obligations (excluding amounts assumed by United States Steel) Short and long term debt................. $3,093 210 529 863 1,491 Capital lease obligations................ 10 1 2 2 5 Off balance sheet arrangements: Operating lease obligations............. 403 86 117 135 65 Operating lease obligations under sublease............................... 16 5 6 3 2 Unconditional purchase obligations...... 70 5 10 10 45 Commercial commitments (excluding amounts related to United States Steel) Throughput and deficiency agreements..... 112 14 16 20 62 Guarantees of the indebtedness of others.................................. 35 35 Contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment..................... 297 184 90 23 Total excluding amounts related to United States Steel.............................. 4,036 505 770 1,056 1,705 Contractual cash obligations assumed by United States Steel Long term debt........................... 470 470 Sale leaseback financing................. 128 11 22 22 73 Off balance sheet arrangements: Operating lease obligations............. 19 7 6 6 Operating lease obligations under sublease............................... 96 18 38 10 30 Commercial commitments related to United States Steel Guarantees of indebtedness of others..... 28 5 23 Total amounts related to United States Steel..................................... 741 41 66 38 596 Total contractual obligations and commercial commitments.................... $4,777 546 836 1,094 2,301 Marathon remains primarily obligated for certain debt and other financings for which United States Steel has assumed responsibility for repayment under the terms of the Separation. In addition, Marathon remains contingently liable for certain operating lease obligations of United States Steel. Marathon has also guaranteed certain obligations related to the business of United States Steel. United States Steel is the sole general partner of Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P., which owns certain coke making facilities formerly owned by United States Steel. Marathon has guaranteed to the limited partners all obligations of United States Steel under the partnership documents. United States Steel may dissolve the partnership under certain circumstances, including if it is required to fund accumulated cash shortfalls of the partnership in excess of $150 million. In addition to the normal commitments of a general partner, United States Steel has indemnified the limited partners for certain income tax exposures. As of December 31, 2001, United States Steel had no unpaid outstanding obligations to the limited partners and, accordingly, no amounts were reflected in the above table for this guarantee. Excluded from the table is indebtedness of equity investees which Marathon does not support through guarantees or otherwise. If Marathon were obligated to share in this debt on a pro rata basis, its share would have been approximately $353 million as of December 31, 2001. In the event of default by any of these equity investees, Marathon has no obligation to support the debt; however, any such default could adversely impact our financial investment in the respective equity investee. The table excludes commitments to transport crude oil, natural gas and refined products that were not negotiated as part of arranging the financing of the transportation facilities under contract, which totaled $780 million at December 31, 2001. The table also excludes contractual obligations under long term agreements to purchase crude oil, refinery feedstock and refined products used in day to day operations to generate revenues. Marathon managements opinion concerning liquidity and Marathons ability to avail itself in the future of the financing options mentioned in the above forward looking statements are based on currently available information. To the extent that this information proves to be inaccurate, future availability of financing may be adversely affected. Factors that affect the availability of financing include the performance of Marathon (as measured by various factors including cash provided from operating activities), the state of worldwide debt and equity markets, investor perceptions and expectations of past and future performance, the global financial climate, and, in particular, with respect to borrowings, the levels of Marathons outstanding debt and credit ratings by rating agencies. 39 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies Marathon has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of Marathons products and services, operating results will be adversely affected. Marathon believes that substantially all of its competitors are subject to similar environmental laws and regulations. However, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities, marketing areas, production processes and whether or not it is engaged in the petrochemical business, power business or the marine transportation of crude oil and refined products. Marathons environmental expenditures for each of the last three years were(a): (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 1999 Capital...................................................... $ 67 $ 73 $ 46 Compliance Operating & maintenance..................................... 155 139 117 Remediation(b).............................................. 34 30 25 Total..................................................... $ 256 $ 242 $ 188 (a) Amounts are determined based on American Petroleum Institute survey guidelines and include 100 percent of MAP. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries, where permissible, but do not include noncash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. Marathons environmental capital expenditures accounted for four percent of total capital expenditures in 2001, five percent in 2000, and three percent in 1999. During 1999 through 2001, compliance expenditures represented one percent of Marathons total operating costs. Remediation spending during this period was primarily related to retail marketing outlets which incur ongoing clean up costs for soil and groundwater contamination associated with underground storage tanks and piping. Marathon has been notified that it is a potentially responsible party ("PRP") at 13 waste sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA") as of December 31, 2001. In addition, there are three sites where Marathon has received information requests or other indications that Marathon may be a PRP under CERCLA but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability. There are also 114 additional sites, excluding retail marketing outlets, related to Marathon where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Of these sites, 13 were associated with properties conveyed to MAP by Ashland for which Ashland has retained liability for all costs associated with remediation. At many of these sites, Marathon is one of a number of parties involved and the total cost of remediation, as well as Marathons share thereof, is frequently dependent upon the outcome of investigations and remedial studies. Marathon accrues for environmental remediation activities when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. As environmental remediation matters proceed toward ultimate resolution or as additional remediation obligations arise, charges in excess of those previously accrued may be required. See Note 26 to the Financial Statements. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase Marathons environmental costs, may arise in the future. Marathon intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, Marathon does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2002. Marathons environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $130 million in 2002. Predictions beyond 2002 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies, among other matters. Based upon currently identified 40 projects, Marathon anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $157 million in 2003; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. New Tier II gasoline rules, which were finalized by the EPA in February 2000, and the diesel fuel rules, which were finalized in January 2001, require substantially reduced sulfur levels. The combined capital costs to achieve compliance with the gasoline and diesel regulations could amount to approximately $700 million between 2002 and 2006. This is a forward looking statement. Some factors (among others) that could potentially affect gasoline and diesel fuel compliance costs include obtaining the necessary construction and environmental permits, operating and logistical considerations, further refinement of preliminary engineering studies and project scopes, and unforeseen hazards. In May 2001, Marathon and MAP settled, in a consent decree, EPA allegations that the Robinson refinery did not qualify for an exemption under the National Emission Standards for Benzene Waste Operations pursuant to the Clean Air Act ("CAA"). The government had alleged in a federal court lawsuit that the refinerys Total Annual Benzene releases exceeded the limitation of 10 megagrams per year, and as a result, the refinery was in violation of the benzene waste emission control, record keeping, and reporting requirements. The consent decree was approved by the court on July 26, 2001 and requires Marathon and MAP to pay a combined $1.6 million civil penalty, perform $125,000 in supplemental environmental projects, as part of an enforcement action for alleged CAA violations, and install various controls and other improvements. In 1998, the EPA conducted multi media inspections of MAPs Detroit and Robinson refineries, covering compliance with the CAA, the Clean Water Act, reporting obligations under the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act, CERCLA and the handling of process waste. The EPA served a number of Notices of Violation ("NOV") and Findings of Violation as a result of these inspections, but these allegations were resolved as part of the New Source Review consent decree which MAP agreed to on May 11, 2001. MAPs settlement with the EPA includes all of MAPs refineries and commits MAP to specific control technologies and implementation schedules for environmental expenditures and improvements to MAPs refineries over approximately an eight year period. The current estimated cost to complete these programs is approximately $300 million in expenditures over the next seven years. MAP is also committed to the performance of about $8 million in supplemental environmental projects and has paid an aggregate civil penalty in 2001 of $3.8 million, as part of this settlement of an enforcement action for alleged CAA violations. MAP believes that this settlement will provide MAP with increased permitting and operating flexibility while achieving significant emission reductions. The court approved this consent decree on August 28, 2001. In 2000, the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental Cabinet sent Marathon Ashland Pipe Line LLC a NOV seeking a civil penalty associated with a pipeline spill earlier that year in Winchester, Kentucky. MAP has settled this NOV in the form of an Agreed to Administrative Order which was finalized and entered in January 2002 and required payment of a $170,000 penalty and reimbursement of past response costs up to $131,000. Marathon is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. See Note 26 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of certain of these matters. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to Marathon. However, management believes that Marathon will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to Marathon. See "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity" on page 36. 41 Outlook The outlook regarding Marathons upstream revenues and income is largely dependent upon future prices and volumes of liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas. Prices have historically been volatile and have frequently been affected by unpredictable changes in supply and demand resulting from fluctuations in worldwide economic activity and political developments in the worlds major oil and gas producing and consuming areas. Any significant decline in prices could have a material adverse effect on Marathons results of operations. A prolonged decline in such prices could also adversely affect the quantity of crude oil and natural gas reserves that can be economically produced and the amount of capital available for exploration and development. In 2002, worldwide production is expected to average 430,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day, split evenly between liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas, including Marathons proportionate share of equity investees production and future acquisitions. On January 3, 2002, Marathon completed its acquisition of CMS Energys interests in Equatorial Guinea. For a total cash consideration of $993 million, excluding working capital adjustments, Marathon acquired: . a 52.4 percent interest in, and operatorship of, the offshore Alba Block, which contains the currently producing Alba gas field as well as undeveloped oil and gas discoveries and several possible exploration prospects; . a 37.6 percent interest in the adjacent offshore Block D; . a 52.4 percent interest in an onshore condensate separation facility; . a 45 percent interest in a joint venture onshore methanol production plant; . a 43.2 percent interest in an onshore liquefied petroleum gas processing plant. In 2002, Marathon plans to drill, or complete drilling operations on three or four deepwater wells in the Gulf of Mexico, including the appraisal of the Ozona Deep discovery. Other major upstream projects, which are currently underway or under evaluation and are expected to improve future income streams, include: . Norway, where Marathon has completed the acquisition of various interests in five licenses in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea; . Alaska, where Marathon recently had a natural gas discovery on the Ninilchik Unit on the Kenai Peninsula. Additional drilling is planned in 2002. . Angola, where Marathon expects to participate in the drilling of up to three exploration wells during 2002. On February 28, 2002, Marathon announced proposed plans for a major liquefied natural gas ("LNG") re gasification and power generation complex near Tijuana in the Mexican State of Baja California. The proposed complex would consist of a LNG marine terminal, an off loading terminal, onshore LNG re gasification facilities, and pipeline infrastructure necessary to transport the natural gas. In addition, a 400 megawatt natural gas fired power generation plant would be constructed on the site. The complex would supply natural gas and electricity for local use as well as for export to Southern California. Completion and potential start up is projected for 2005. On February 28, 2002, Marathon announced plans to lead an initiative for a new North Sea natural gas pipeline designed to provide additional gas for the U.K. market. The proposed 675 kilometer dry natural gas pipeline would connect the Norwegian Heimdal area of the North Sea to Bacton, on the southeast coast of the U.K. The pipeline would pass through the Brae complex and pass adjacent to other large gas processing/transportation facilities in the U.K. North Sea. The pipeline would terminate at or near the existing Bacton Terminal. The pipeline would allow gas to be aggregated from numerous U.K. and Norwegian North Sea producers for transportation to Bacton where it would then be sold to commercial, industrial and residential customers. Marathon estimates that the pipeline could begin operations in 2005. The above discussion includes forward looking statements with respect to the timing and levels of Marathons worldwide liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas production, and the exploration drilling program. Some factors that could potentially affect worldwide liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas production and the exploration drilling program include acts of war or terrorist acts and the governmental or military response thereto, pricing, supply and demand for petroleum products, amount of capital available for exploration and development, occurrence of 42 acquisitions/dispositions of oil and gas properties, regulatory constraints, timing of commencing production from new wells, drilling rig availability and other geological, operating and economic considerations. These factors (among others) could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward looking statements. Some factors that could affect the planned construction of the LNG re gasification, power generation and related facilities, as well as the North Sea pipeline transportation and related facilities, include, but are not limited to, unforeseen difficulty in the negotiation of definitive agreements among project participants, identification of additional participants to reach optimum levels of participation, inability or delay in obtaining necessary government and third party approvals, arranging sufficient project financing, unanticipated changes in market demand or supply, competition with similar projects, and environmental and permitting issues. Additionally, the LNG project could be impacted by the availability or construction of sufficient LNG vessels. Marathons downstream income is largely dependent upon the refining and wholesale marketing margin for refined products, the retail gross margin for gasoline and distillates, and the gross margin on retail merchandise sales. The refining and wholesale marketing margin reflects the difference between the wholesale selling prices of refined products and the cost of raw materials refined, purchased product costs and manufacturing expenses. Refining and wholesale marketing margins have been historically volatile and vary with the level of economic activity in the various marketing areas, the regulatory climate, the seasonal pattern of certain product sales, crude oil costs, manufacturing costs, the available supply of crude oil and refined products, and logistical constraints. The retail gross margin for gasoline and distillates reflects the difference between the retail selling prices of these products and their wholesale cost including secondary transportation. Retail gasoline and distillate margins have also been historically volatile, but tend to be counter cyclical to the refining and wholesale marketing margin. Factors affecting the retail gasoline and distillate margin include seasonal demand fluctuations, the available wholesale supply, the level of economic activity in the marketing areas and weather situations which impact driving conditions. The gross margin on retail merchandise sales tends to be less volatile than the retail gasoline and distillate margin. Factors affecting the gross margin on retail merchandise sales include consumer demand for merchandise items and the level of economic activity in the marketing area. At its Catlettsburg, Kentucky refinery, MAP has initiated a multi year integrated investment program to upgrade product yield realizations and reduce fixed and variable manufacturing expenses. This program involves the expansion, conversion and retirement of certain refinery processing units which, in addition to improving profitability, will reduce the refinerys total gasoline pool sulfur below 30 ppm, thereby eliminating the need for additional clean fuels program investments at the refinery. The project is expected to be completed in 2004. MAP is working to improve its logistics network and Marathon Ashland Pipe Line LLC has been designated operator of the Centennial Pipeline, owned jointly by Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Company, a subsidiary of CMS Energy Corporation, MAP, and TE Products Pipe Line Company, Limited Partnership. The new pipeline, which will connect the Gulf Coast refiners with the Midwest market, will have the capacity to transport approximately 210,000 barrels per day of refined petroleum products and is expected to be operational in the first quarter of 2002. A MAP subsidiary, Ohio River Pipe Line LLC ("ORPL"), plans to build a pipeline from Kenova, West Virginia to Columbus, Ohio. ORPL is a common carrier pipeline company and the pipeline will be an interstate common carrier pipeline. The pipeline is currently known as Cardinal Products Pipe Line and is expected to initially move about 50,000 barrels per day of refined petroleum into the central Ohio region. As of December 2001, ORPL has secured all of the rights of way required to build the pipeline. Applications for the remaining construction permits have been filed. Construction is currently planned for summer 2002 pending receipt of permits, with start up of the pipeline to follow in first half 2003. The above discussion includes forward looking statements with respect to the Catlettsburg refinery and the Centennial Pipeline and Cardinal Products Pipe Line systems. Some factors which could potentially cause the actual results from the Catlettsburg investment program to differ materially from current expectations include the price of petroleum products, levels of cash flows from operations, obtaining the necessary construction and environmental permits, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions and regulatory approval constraints. The primary factor, which could impact the Centennial Pipeline system, is unforeseen hazards. Some factors, which could impact the Cardinal Products Pipe Line, include obtaining the necessary permits and completion of construction. These factors (among others) could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward looking statements. 43 Accounting Standards Adopted in 2001 Effective January 1, 2001, Marathon adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" (SFAS No. 133), as amended by SFAS Nos. 137 and 138. This Statement, as amended, requires recognition of all derivatives at fair value as either assets or liabilities. For additional information, see Note 4 of the Financial Statements. To be adopted in future periods In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 "Business Combinations" (SFAS No. 141), No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" (SFAS No. 142) and No. 143 "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations" (SFAS No. 143). SFAS No. 141 requires that all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001, be accounted for under the purchase method, eliminating the use of the pooling method. This Statement also establishes for all business combinations made after June 30, 2001, specific criteria for the allocation of the purchase price to intangible assets separately from goodwill. SFAS No. 141 also requires that the excess of fair value of acquired assets over cost in a business combination (negative goodwill) be recognized immediately as an extraordinary gain, rather than deferred and amortized. Marathon will account for the acquisition of certain interests from CMS Energy in January 2002 under SFAS No. 141. SFAS No. 142 addresses the accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets after an acquisition. The most significant changes made by SFAS No. 142 are: 1) goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives will no longer be amortized; 2) goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives must be tested for impairment at least annually; and 3) the amortization period for intangible assets with finite lives will no longer be limited to forty years. Marathon will adopt SFAS No. 142 effective January 1, 2002, as required. At that time, the annual amortization of existing goodwill of $3 million, net of tax, will cease on the unamortized portion associated with previous acquisitions and certain investments accounted for under the equity method. A transitional impairment test is required for existing goodwill as of the date of adoption of this Standard, which must be completed within the first year. Any impairment loss resulting from applying the transitional goodwill impairment test will be reported as a change in accounting principle. Goodwill recorded after adoption of this Standard is to be tested for impairment at least annually and any resulting impairment is not considered part of the change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 143 establishes a new accounting model for the recognition and measurement of retirement obligations associated with tangible long lived assets. SFAS No. 143 requires that an asset retirement cost be capitalized as part of the cost of the related long lived asset and subsequently allocated to expense using a systematic and rational method. Marathon will adopt this Statement effective January 1, 2003, as required. The transition adjustment resulting from the adoption of SFAS No. 143 will be reported as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. At this time, Marathon cannot reasonably estimate the effect of the adoption of this Statement on either its financial position or results of operations. In August 2001, the FASB approved SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets" (SFAS No. 144). This Statement establishes a single accounting model for long lived assets to be disposed of by sale and provides additional implementation guidance for assets to be held and used and assets to be disposed of other than by sale. Marathon will adopt the Statement prospectively effective January 1, 2002. The timing of classifying a long lived asset as held for sale may change as compared to previous accounting standards. 44 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments Marathon uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its price risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of crude oil, natural gas, and refined products. For transactions that qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133, the changes in fair value of the derivative instruments are classified within Other Comprehensive Income, if the hedge qualifies as a Cash Flow Hedge. The resulting deferred gains or losses are subsequently recognized in income from operations, in the same period as the underlying physical transaction. If the hedge position qualifies as a Fair Value Hedge, the resulting gains or losses from the change in fair value of both the hedged item and the related derivative, are reflected within income in that period. Marathon also uses derivative instruments to economically hedge price risk but designates such strategies as nonhedge. Changes in fair value for these contracts is reflected within income in that period. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities are marked to market and the resulting gains or losses are recognized in the current period in income from operations. While Marathons risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that use of derivative instruments along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls does not expose Marathon to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect Marathons results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods. However, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, Marathon is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of crude oil, natural gas and refined products. To a lesser extent, Marathon is exposed to the risk of price fluctuations on natural gas liquids and petroleum feedstocks used as raw materials. Marathons market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand. However, Marathon uses fixed price contracts and derivative commodity instruments to manage a minor portion of its commodity price risk. Marathon uses fixed price contracts for portions of its natural gas production to manage exposure to fluctuations in natural gas prices. Certain derivative commodity instruments have the effect of restoring the equity portion of fixed price sales of natural gas to variable market based pricing. These instruments are used as part of Marathons overall risk management programs. 45 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk CONTINUED Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pretax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent changes in commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000, are provided in the following table:(a) (Dollars in millions) Incremental Decrease in Pretax Income Assuming a Hypothetical Price Change of(a) 2001 2000 Derivative Commodity Instruments(b)(c) 10% 25% 10% 25% Crude oil(d)............................. $ 23.4(e) $ 46.7(e) $9.1(e) $ 27.2(e) Natural gas(d)........................... 8.6(e) 18.2(e) 20.2(e) 50.6(e) Refined products(d)...................... 1.0(f) 3.9(f) 6.1(e) 16.5(e) (a) Marathon remains at risk for possible changes in the market value of derivative instruments; however, such risk should be mitigated by price changes in the underlying hedged item. Effects of these offsets are not reflected in the sensitivity analyses. Amounts reflect the estimated incremental effect on pretax income, after deducting for minority interest. Amounts reflect hypothetical 10% and 25% changes in closing commodity prices for each open contract position at December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000. Marathon management evaluates their portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adds or revises strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions and changes in risk profiles. Marathon is also exposed to credit risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties. The credit worthiness of counterparties is subject to continuing review, including the use of master netting agreements to the extent practical. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2001, would cause future pretax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. (b) The number of net open contracts varied throughout 2001, from a low of 19,040 contracts at July 18, to a high of 41,298 contracts at November 8, and averaged 29,279 for the year. The derivative commodity instruments used and hedging positions taken also varied throughout 2001, and will continue to vary in the future. Because of these variations in the composition of the portfolio over time, the number of open contracts, by itself, cannot be used to predict future income effects. (c) The calculation of sensitivity amounts for basis swaps assumes that the physical and paper indices are perfectly correlated. Gains and losses on options are based on changes in intrinsic value only. (d) The direction of the price change used in calculating the sensitivity amount for each commodity reflects that which would result in the largest incremental decrease in pretax income when applied to the derivative commodity instruments used to hedge that commodity. (e) Price increase. (f) Price decrease. Marathon uses derivative instruments in its exploration and production ("E&P") operations to mitigate the price risk associated with equity production of crude oil and natural gas volumes. In addition, Marathon has sold forward a specified volume of natural gas. Marathon has used derivatives to convert the fixed price in this contract to market prices. The underlying physical contract matures in 2008. Marathon recorded total net pretax derivative gains/(losses) of approximately $85 million in 2001 and $(47) million in 2000. The amounts for 1999 were diminimus. Marathons refining, marketing, and transportation (RM&T) operations generally use derivative commodity instruments to lock in costs of certain crude oil and other feedstocks, to protect carrying values of inventories and to protect margins on fixed price sales of refined products. Marathons RM&T operations recorded total net pretax derivative gains/(losses), net of the 38 percent minority interest in MAP, of approximately $130 million in 2001, $(127) million in 2000, and $13 million for 1999. Marathons trading activity gains/(losses) are included in the afore mentioned amounts and totaled $3 million in 2001, $(11) million in 2000 and $5 million in 1999, respectively. Marathons other energy related businesses are exposed to market risk associated with the purchase and subsequent resale of natural gas. Marathon uses derivative instruments to mitigate the price risk on purchased volumes and anticipated sales volumes. Marathon recorded net pretax derivative gains/(losses) of $(29) million in 2001, $13 million in 2000 and $3 million in 1999, respectively. Marathon is subject to basis risk, caused by factors that affect the relationship between commodity futures prices reflected in derivative commodity instruments and the cash market price of the underlying commodity. Natural gas transaction prices are frequently based on industry reference prices that may vary from prices experienced in local markets. For example, New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) contracts for natural gas are priced at Louisianas Henry Hub, while the underlying quantities of natural gas may be produced and sold in the Western United States at prices that do not move in strict correlation with NYMEX prices. To the extent that commodity price changes in one region are not reflected in other regions, derivative commodity instruments may no longer provide the expected hedge, resulting in increased exposure to basis risk. These regional price differences could yield favorable or unfavorable results. OTC transactions are being used to manage exposure to a portion of basis risk. 46 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk CONTINUED Marathon is subject to liquidity risk, caused by timing delays in liquidating contract positions due to a potential inability to identify a counterparty willing to accept an offsetting position. Due to the large number of active participants, liquidity risk exposure is relatively low for exchange traded transactions. Interest Rate Risk Marathon is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations affecting the fair value of certain non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in year end 2001 and 2000 interest rates is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) As of December 31, 2001 2000 Incremental Incremental Increase in Increase in Non Derivative Financial Fair Fair Fair Fair Instruments(a) Value(b) Value(c) Value(b) Value(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d)................... $ 192 $ $ 171 $ Financial liabilities: Long term debt(e)(f).............. $ 3,830 $127 $ 2,174 $ 86 Preferred stock of subsidiary(g).. 175 15 Total liabilities................ $ 3,830 $127 $ 2,349 $ 101 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 22 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10% decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of Marathons long term debt at December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000. (d) For additional information, see Note 20 to the Financial Statements. (e) Includes amounts due within one year. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or current borrowing rates for financings with similar terms and maturities. For additional information, see Note 13 to the Financial Statements. (g) See Note 22 to the Financial Statements for further explanation. At December 31, 2001 and 2000, Marathons portfolio of long term debt was substantially comprised of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $127 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, Marathons sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect Marathons results and cash flows only to the extent that Marathon would elect to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Marathon is subject to the risk of price fluctuations related to anticipated revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Marathon has used on occasion forward currency contracts or other derivative instruments to manage this risk. At December 31, 2001, Marathon had no open forward currency contracts in place. At December 31, 2000, Marathon had open Canadian dollar forward purchase contracts with a total carrying value of approximately $14 million. A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2000, Canadian dollar to U.S. dollar forward rate, would have resulted in a charge to income of approximately $1 million. Safe Harbor Marathons quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with the use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for crude oil, natural gas, refined products and other feedstocks. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to Marathons hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 47 
 
