Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, includes forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements typically contain words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, plan, predict, target, project, could, may, should, would or similar words, indicating that future outcomes are uncertain. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward looking statements. Forward looking statements in this Report may include, but are not limited to, levels of revenues, income from operations, net income or earnings per share; levels of capital, exploration, environmental or maintenance expenditures; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital, exploration or maintenance projects; volumes of production or sales of liquid hydrocarbons, natural gas, and synthetic crude oil; levels of worldwide prices of liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas; levels of liquid hydrocarbon, natural gas and synthetic crude oil reserves; the acquisition or divestiture of assets; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the potential effect of judicial proceedings on our business and financial condition; levels of common share repurchases; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities. PART I Item 1. Business General Marathon Oil Corporation was incorporated in 2001 and is an international energy company engaged in exploration and production, oil sands mining and integrated gas with operations in the United States, Angola, Canada, Equatorial Guinea, Indonesia, the Iraqi Kurdistan Region, Libya, Norway, Poland and the United Kingdom. We are based in Houston, Texas with our corporate headquarters at 5555 San Felipe Road, Houston, Texas 77056 2723 and a telephone number of (713) 629 6600. 3 Table of Contents On June 30, 2011, the spin off of Marathons downstream business was completed, creating two independent energy companies: Marathon Oil and MPC. Marathon shareholders at the close of business on the record date of June 27, 2011 received one share of MPC common stock for every two shares of Marathon common stock held. Fractional shares of MPC common stock were not distributed and any fractional share of MPC common stock otherwise issuable to a Marathon shareholder was sold in the open market on such shareholders behalf, and such shareholder received a cash payment with respect to that fractional share. A private letter ruling received in June 2011 from the IRS affirmed the tax free nature of the spin off. Activities related to the downstream business have been treated as discontinued operations in all periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, with additional information in 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Managements Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Air In August 2011, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) published proposed New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) and National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) that will both amend existing NSPS and NESHAP standards for oil and gas facilities as well as create a new NSPS for oil and gas production, transmission and distribution facilities. If the proposed rules are finalized without substantial modification, compliance with the rules will result in an increase in costs of control, equipment and labor and require additional notification, monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping. The U.S. EPA is required to finalize this rule by April, 2012. In July 2011, the U.S. EPA finalized a Federal Implementation Plan under the CAA that includes New Source Review (NSR) regulations which apply to air emissions sources on Tribal Lands. This rule became effective on August 30, 2011, and requires the registration and or pre construction permitting of most of our facilities on Tribal Lands in Wyoming, Oklahoma and North Dakota. To minimize pre construction delays in the near term, we entered into an Administrative Compliance and Consent Agreement (Agreement) that temporarily suspended the requirement for pre construction permits for facilities on Trial Lands in North Dakota as long as permit applications were filed in accordance with the Agreement. We cannot reasonably estimate the financial impact of these permitting requirements until the U.S. EPA finalizes its internal permitting procedures. The U.S. EPA has indicated that this rule will be finalized during the first half of 2012. Climate Change In 2010, the U.S. EPA promulgated rules that required us to monitor and submit an annual report on our greenhouse gas emissions. Further, state, national and international requirements to reduce greenhouse emissions are being proposed and in some cased promulgated. These requirements apply or could apply in countries in which we operate. Potential legislation and regulations pertaining to climate change could also affect our operations. The cost to comply with these laws and regulations cannot be estimated at this time. For additional information, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. As part of our commitment to environmental stewardship, we estimate and publicly report greenhouse gas emissions from our operations. We are working to continuously improve the accuracy and completeness of these estimates. In addition, we continuously strive to improve operational and energy efficiencies through resource and energy conservation where practicable and cost effective. Hydraulic Fracturing Hydraulic fracturing is a commonly used process that involves injecting water, sand, and small volumes of chemicals into the wellbore to fracture the hydrocarbon bearing rock thousands of feet below the surface to facilitate higher flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore. Hydraulic fracturing has been regulated at the state level through permitting and compliance requirements. State level initiatives in regions with substantial shale resources have been or may be proposed or implemented to further regulate hydraulic fracturing practices, limit water withdrawals and water use, require disclosure of fracturing fluid constituents, restrict which additives may be used, or implement temporary or permanent bans on hydraulic fracturing. In addition, the U.S. Congress has considered legislation that would require regulation affecting the hydraulic fracturing process. In the first quarter of 2010, the U.S. EPA announced its intention to conduct a comprehensive research study on the potential effects that hydraulic fracturing may have on water quality and public health. The U.S. EPA has begun preparation for the study and expects to issue an interim report in 2012 followed by a final report in 2014. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of oil and natural gas from the developing shale plays, or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing. The adoption of any federal or state laws or the 20 Table of Contents implementation of regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and gas wells and increased compliance costs, which could increase costs of our operations and cause considerable delays in acquiring regulatory approvals to drill and complete wells. Remediation The AOSP operations use established processes to mine deposits of bitumen from an open pit mine, extract the bitumen and upgrade it into synthetic crude oils. Tailings are waste products created from the oil sands extraction process which are placed in ponds. The AOSP is required to reclaim its tailing ponds as part of its ongoing reclamation work. The reclamation process uses developing technology and there is an inherent risk that the current process may not be as effective or perform as required in order to meet the approved closure and reclamation plan. The AOSP continues to develop its current reclamation technology and continues to investigate alternate tailings management technologies. In February 2009, the Alberta Energy Resources Conservation Board (ERCB) issued a Directive which more clearly defines criteria for managing oil sands tailings. The AOSP joint venture operator submitted tailings management papers to the ERCB for both mines setting forth plans to comply with the Directive which received approval, with conditions, in the second half of 2010. Further new regulations or failure to comply in a timely manner could result in additional cost to us. Concentrations of Credit Risk We are exposed to credit risk in the event of nonpayment by counterparties, a significant portion of which are concentrated in energy related industries. The creditworthiness of customers and other counterparties is subject to continuing review, including the use of master netting agreements, where appropriate. For the years 2011, 2010 and 2009, transactions with MPC accounted for more than 10 percent of our annual revenues. The majority of those transactions occurred while MPC was a wholly owned subsidiary. In addition, for the years 2010 and 2009, sales of crude oil to the Libyan National Oil Company accounted for more than 10 percent of our annual revenues. These transactions were restricted to sales of crude oil produced in Libya during those periods. Trademarks, Patents and Licenses We currently hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents and have various pending patent applications. Although in the aggregate our trademarks, patents and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single trademark, patent, license or group of related trademarks, patents or licenses as critical or essential to our business as a whole. Employees We had 3,322 active, full time employees as of December 31, 2011. We consider labor relations with our employees to be satisfactory. We have not had any work stoppages or strikes pertaining to our employees. Executive Officers of the Registrant The executive officers of Marathon Oil and their ages as of February 1, 2012, are as follows: Clarence P. Cazalot, Jr. 61 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Janet F. Clark 57 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer David E. Roberts, Jr. 51 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Eileen M. Campbell 54 Vice President, Public Policy Steven P. Guidry 53 Vice President, Business Development Sylvia J. Kerrigan 46 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Michael K. Stewart 54 Vice President, Finance and Accounting, Controller and Treasurer Howard J. Thill 52 Vice President, Investor Relations and Public Affairs All of the executive officers have held responsible management or professional positions with Marathon Oil or its subsidiaries for more than the past five years. Mr. Cazalot was appointed chairman of the board of directors effective July 2011 and was appointed president and chief executive officer effective January 2002. Ms. Clark was appointed executive vice president effective January 2007. Ms. Clark joined Marathon Oil in January 2004 as senior vice president and chief financial officer. Mr. Roberts was appointed executive vice president and chief operating officer effective July 2011. Mr. Roberts joined Marathon in June 2006 as senior vice president, business development and was appointed executive vice president, upstream in April 2008. Ms. Campbell was appointed vice president, public policy effective June 2010. Prior to this appointment, Ms. Campbell was Vice President, Human Resources since October 2000. 21 Table of Contents Mr. Guidry was appointed vice president, business development effective July 2011. Mr. Guidry previously served as regional vice president for our Libya operations from November 2008 to June 2011. Prior to the Libya assignment, Mr. Guidry was regional vice president for Marathons North American Production Operations from August 2006 to November 2008. Ms. Kerrigan was appointed vice president, general counsel and secretary effective November 1, 2009. Prior to this appointment, Ms. Kerrigan was assistant general counsel since January 1, 2003. Mr. Stewart was appointed vice president, finance and accounting, controller and treasurer effective December 2011. Mr. Stewart previously served as vice president, accounting and controller from May 2006 to December 2011 and as controller from July 2005 to April 2006. Mr. Thill was appointed vice president, investor relations and public affairs effective January 2008. Mr. Thill was previously director of investor relations from April 2003 to December 2007. Available Information General information about Marathon Oil, including the Corporate Governance Principles and Charters for the Audit and Finance Committee, Compensation Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Health, Environmental, Safety and Corporate Responsibility Committee, can be found at www.marathonoil.com. In addition, our Code of Business Conduct and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers are available at http://www.marathonoil.com/Investor Center/. Our Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q and Current Reports on Form 8 K, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the SEC. These documents are also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting our Investor Relations office. Information contained on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10 K or other securities filings. Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in the course of our business. The following summarizes significant risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. A substantial or extended decline in liquid hydrocarbon or natural gas prices would reduce our operating results and cash flows and could adversely impact our future rate of growth and the carrying value of our assets. Prices for liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas fluctuate widely. Our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth are highly dependent on the prices we receive for our liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas. Historically, the markets for liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas have been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. Many of the factors influencing prices of liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas are beyond our control. These factors include: worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas; the cost of exploring for, developing and producing liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas; the ability of the members of OPEC to agree to and maintain production controls; political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions; changes in weather patterns and climate; natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornados; the price and availability of alternative and competing forms of energy; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and general economic conditions worldwide. The long term effects of these and other factors on the prices of liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas are uncertain. Lower liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas prices may cause us to reduce the amount of these commodities that we produce, which may reduce our revenues, operating income and cash flows. Significant reductions in liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas prices could require us to reduce our capital expenditures or impair the carrying value of our assets. 22 Table of Contents Our offshore operations involve special risks that could negatively impact us. Offshore exploration and development operations present technological challenges and operating risks because of the marine environment. Activities in deepwater areas may pose incrementally greater risks because of water depths that limit intervention capability and the physical distance to oilfield service infrastructure and service providers. Environmental remediation and other costs resulting from spills or releases may result in substantial liabilities. Estimates of liquid hydrocarbon, natural gas and synthetic crude oil reserves depend on many factors and assumptions, including various assumptions that are based on conditions in existence as of the dates of the estimates. Any material changes in those conditions or other factors affecting those assumptions could impair the quantity and value of our liquid hydrocarbon, natural gas and synthetic crude oil reserves. The proved reserve information included in this Report has been derived from engineering estimates. Estimates of liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas reserves were prepared by our in house teams of reservoir engineers and geoscience professionals and were reviewed, on a selected basis, by our Corporate Reserves Group. The synthetic crude oil reserves estimates were prepared by GLJ Petroleum Consultants, a third party consulting firm experienced in working with oil sands. Reserves were valued based on the unweighted average of closing prices for the first day of each month in the 12 month period ended December 31, 2011, as well as other conditions in existence at the date. Any significant future price change will have a material effect on the quantity and present value of our proved reserves. Future reserve revisions could also result from changes in governmental regulation, among other things. Reserve estimation is a subjective process that involves estimating volumes to be recovered from underground accumulations of liquid hydrocarbons, natural gas and bitumen that cannot be directly measured. (Bitumen is mined and then upgraded into synthetic crude oil.) Estimates of economically producible reserves and of future net cash flows depend on a number of variable factors and assumptions, including: location, size and shape of the accumulation as well as fluid, rock and producing characteristics of the accumulation; historical production from the area, compared with production from other comparable producing areas; volumes of bitumen in place and various factors affecting the recoverability of bitumen and its conversion into synthetic crude oil such as historical upgrader performance; the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies; assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and workover and repair costs; and industry economic conditions, levels of cash flows from operations and other operating considerations. As a result, different petroleum engineers, each using industry accepted geologic and engineering practices and scientific methods, may produce different estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows based on the same available data. Because of the subjective nature of such reserve estimates, each of the following items may differ materially from the amounts or other factors estimated: the amount and timing of production; the revenues and costs associated with that production; and the amount and timing of future development expenditures. The discounted future net revenues from our proved liquid hydrocarbon, natural gas and synthetic crude oil reserves reflected in this Report should not be considered as the market value of the reserves attributable to our properties. As required by SEC Rule 4 10 of Regulation S X, the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved liquid hydrocarbon, natural gas and synthetic crude oil reserves are based on an unweighted average of closing prices for the first day of each month in the 12 month period ended December 31, 2011, and costs applicable at the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor required by the applicable rules of the SEC to be used to calculate discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on our cost of capital and the risks associated with our business and the oil and natural gas industry in general. 23 Table of Contents If we are unsuccessful in acquiring or finding additional reserves, our future liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas production would decline, thereby reducing our cash flows and results of operations and impairing our financial condition. The rate of production from liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent we acquire interests in additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, optimize production performance, identify additional reservoirs not currently producing or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline materially as liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas are produced. Accordingly, to the extent we are not successful in replacing the liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas we produce, our future revenues will decline. Creating and maintaining an inventory of prospects for future production depends on many factors, including: obtaining rights to explore for, develop and produce liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas in promising areas; drilling success; the ability to complete long lead time, capital intensive projects timely and on budget; the ability to find or acquire additional proved reserves at acceptable costs; and the ability to fund such activity. Future exploration and drilling results are uncertain and involve substantial costs. Drilling for liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas involves numerous risks, including the risk that we may not encounter commercially productive liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas reservoirs. The costs of drilling, completing and operating wells are often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; title problems; pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; fires, explosions, blowouts and surface cratering; lack of access to pipelines or other transportation methods; and shortages or delays in the availability of services or delivery of equipment. If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities (including improvements and repairs to our existing facilities) could adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results. Delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we produce. Such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: denial of or delay in receiving requisite regulatory approvals and or permits; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials; adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors or suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; market related increases in a projects debt or equity financing costs; and nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors. Any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our ongoing capital projects. 24 Table of Contents We may incur substantial capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of compliance with, and changes in environmental health, safety and security laws and regulations, and, as a result, our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our businesses are subject to numerous laws, regulations and other requirements relating to the protection of the environment, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the environment such as the venting or flaring of natural gas, waste management, pollution prevention, greenhouse gas emissions, as well as laws and regulations relating to public and employee safety and health and to facility security. We have incurred and may continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of these laws and regulations. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products, our operating results will be adversely affected. The specific impact of these laws and regulations may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of operating facilities and production processes. We may also be required to make material expenditures to modify operations, install pollution control equipment, perform site cleanups or curtail operations that could materially and adversely affect business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. We may become subject to liabilities that we currently do not anticipate in connection with new, amended or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements or the future discovery of contamination. In addition, any failure by us to comply with existing or future laws or regulations could result in civil penalties or criminal fines and other enforcement actions against us. We believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the extent, causes of and responsibility for climate change will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations. Currently, various legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation in countries where we operate, including the U.S., Canada, and Norway, and the European Union. Our operations result in these greenhouse gas emissions. Through 2011, domestic legislative and regulatory efforts included proposed federal legislation and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs, each of which could impose reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. Further, in December 2011 at the Durban Climate Change Conference, countries such as the U.S., China and India, and the European Union agreed in principal to replace the Kyoto Protocol (which expires in 2012) with a new legally binding agreement. However, at this time it is not certain whether a legally binding resolution will be reached, what the terms of any agreement would be, or whether the U.S. Senate would ratify such an agreement. These actions could result in increased: (1) costs to operate and maintain our facilities, (2) capital expenditures to install new emission controls at our facilities, and (3) costs to administer and manage any potential greenhouse gas emissions or carbon trading or tax programs. These costs and capital expenditures could be material. Although uncertain, these developments could increase our costs, reduce the demand for liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas, and create delays in our obtaining air pollution permits for new or modified facilities. Although there may be adverse financial impact (including compliance costs, potential permitting delays and potential reduced demand for liquid hydrocarbons or natural gas) associated with any legislation, regulation, or other action by the U.S. EPA, the extent and magnitude of that impact cannot be reliably or accurately estimated due to the fact that requirements have only recently been adopted and the present uncertainty regarding any additional measures and how they will be implemented. Private party litigation has also been brought against some emitters of greenhouse gas emissions. The potential adoption of federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives related to hydraulic fracturing could result in operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and gas wells. Hydraulic fracturing is a commonly used process that involves injecting water, sand, and small volumes of chemicals into the wellbore to fracture the hydrocarbon bearing rock thousands of feet below the surface to facilitate higher flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore. The U.S. Congress has considered legislation that would require additional regulation affecting the hydraulic fracturing process. Consideration of new federal regulation and increased state oversight continues to arise. The U.S. EPA announced in the first quarter of 2010 its intention to conduct a comprehensive research study on the potential effects that hydraulic fracturing may have on water quality and public health. The U.S. EPA has begun preparation for the study and expects to issue an interim report in 2012 followed by a final report in 2014. In addition, various state level initiatives in regions with substantial shale gas resources have been or may be proposed or implemented to further regulate hydraulic fracturing practices, limit water withdrawals and water use, require disclosure of fracturing fluid constituents, restrict which additives may be used, or implement temporary or permanent bans on hydraulic fracturing. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of oil and natural gas, including from the developing shale plays, or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing. The adoption of any federal or state laws or the implementation of regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and gas wells and increased compliance costs. 25 Table of Contents Worldwide political and economic developments could damage our operations and materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. Local political and economic factors in global markets could have a material adverse effect on us. A total of 64 percent of our liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas sales volumes in 2011 was derived from production outside the U.S. and 64 percent of our proved liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2011, were located outside the U.S. All of our synthetic crude oil production and proved reserves are located in Canada. We are, therefore, subject to the political, geographic and economic risks and possible terrorist activities attendant to doing business with suppliers located within or outside of the U.S. There are many risks associated with operations in countries and in global markets, such as Equatorial Guinea, Indonesia, Libya and the Iraqi Kurdistan Region, including: changes in governmental policies relating to liquid hydrocarbon, natural gas, bitumen or synthetic crude oil pricing and taxation; other political, economic or diplomatic developments and international monetary fluctuations; political and economic instability, war, acts of terrorism and civil disturbances; the possibility that a government may seize our property with or without compensation, may attempt to renegotiate or revoke existing contractual arrangements or may impose additional taxes or royalty burdens; and fluctuating currency values, hard currency shortages and currency controls. Since January 2010, there have been varying degrees of political instability and public protests, including demonstrations which have been marked by violence, within some countries in the Middle East including Bahrain, Egypt, Libya, Syria, Tunisia and Yemen. Some political regimes in these countries are threatened or have changed as a result of such unrest. If such unrest continues to spread, conflicts could result in civil wars, regional conflicts, and regime changes resulting in governments that are hostile to the U.S. These may have the following results, among others: volatility in global crude oil prices which could negatively impact the global economy, resulting in slower economic growth rates and reduced demand for our products; negative impact on the world crude oil supply if transportation avenues are disrupted; security concerns leading to the prolonged evacuation of our personnel; damage to, or the inability to access, production facilities or other operating assets; and inability of our service and equipment providers to deliver items necessary for us to conduct our operations. Continued hostilities in the Middle East and the occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the U.S. and other developed countries. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects. These risks could lead to increased volatility in prices for liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas. In addition, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult for us to access capital and to obtain the insurance coverage that we consider adequate. Actions of governments through tax and other legislation, executive order and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability, both in the U.S. and abroad. The U.S. government can prevent or restrict us from doing business in foreign countries. These restrictions and those of foreign governments have in the past limited our ability to operate in, or gain access to, opportunities in various countries and will continue to do so in the future. Many of our major projects and operations are conducted with partners, which may decrease our ability to manage risk. We often enter into arrangements to conduct certain business operations, such oil and gas exploration and production, oil sands mining or pipeline transportation, with partners in order to share risks associated with those operations. However, these arrangements also may decrease our ability to manage risks and costs, particularly where we are not the operator. We could have limited influence over and control of the behaviors and performance of these operations. In addition, misconduct, fraud, noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations or improper activities by or on behalf of one or more of our partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. We do not insure against all potential losses and therefore we could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities and increased costs. Our exploration and production operations are subject to unplanned occurrences, including blowouts, explosions, fires, loss of well control, spills, hurricanes and other adverse weather, tsunamis, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions or nuclear or 26 Table of Contents other disasters, labor disputes and accidents. Our oil sands mining operations are subject to business interruptions due to breakdown or failure of equipment or processes and unplanned events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions or other interruptions. These same risks can be applied to the third parties which transport crude oil from our facilities. A prolonged disruption in the ability of any pipeline or vessels to transport crude oil could contribute to a business interruption or increase costs. Our operations are also subject to the additional hazards of pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks. These hazards could result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us. Various hazards have adversely affected us in the past, and damages resulting from a catastrophic occurrence in the future involving us or any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially large claims or in our being assessed potentially substantial fines by governmental authorities. We maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from operating hazards in amounts that we believe to be prudent. Uninsured losses and liabilities arising from operating hazards could reduce the funds available to us for capital, exploration and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Historically, we have maintained insurance coverage for physical damage and resulting business interruption to our major onshore and offshore facilities, with significant self insured retentions. In the future, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased substantially and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, due to hurricane activity in recent years, the availability of insurance coverage for our offshore facilities for windstorms in the Gulf of Mexico region has been reduced or, in many instances, it is prohibitively expensive. As a result, our exposure to losses from future windstorm activity in the Gulf of Mexico region has increased. Litigation by private plaintiffs or government officials could adversely affect our performance. We currently are defending litigation and anticipate that we will be required to defend new litigation in the future. The subject matter of such litigation may include releases of hazardous substances from our facilities, privacy laws, antitrust laws or any other laws or regulations that apply to our operations. In some cases the plaintiff or plaintiffs seek alleged damages involving large classes of potential litigants, and may allege damages relating to extended periods of time or other alleged facts and circumstances. If we are not able to successfully defend such claims, they may result in substantial liability. We do not have insurance covering all of these potential liabilities. In addition to substantial liability, litigation may also seek injunctive relief which could have an adverse effect on our future operations. In connection with our separation from MPC, MPC agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that MPCs ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations will not be impaired in the future. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and the tax sharing agreement we entered into with MPC in connection with the spin off, MPC agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that MPC agreed to retain or assume, and there can be no assurance that the indemnification from MPC will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that MPC will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. In addition, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from MPC any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. The spin off could result in substantial tax liability. We obtained a private letter ruling from the IRS substantially to the effect that the distribution of shares of MPC common stock in the spin off qualified as tax free to MPC, us and our stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368 and related provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). If the factual assumptions or representations made in the request for the private letter ruling prove to have been inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then we will not be able to rely on the ruling. Furthermore, the IRS does not rule on whether a distribution such as the spin off satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax free treatment under Section 355 of the Code. Rather, the private letter ruling was based on representations by us that those requirements were satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. In connection with the spin off, we also obtained an opinion of outside counsel, substantially to the effect that, the distribution of shares of MPC common stock in the spin off qualified as tax free to MPC, us and our stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368 and related provisions of the Code. The opinion relied on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by MPC and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion. The opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts would not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. 27 Table of Contents If, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion of counsel, the spin off were determined not to qualify under Section 355 of the Code, each U.S. holder of our common stock who received shares of MPC common stock in the spin off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of MPC common stock received. That distribution would be taxable to each such stockholder as a dividend to the extent of our accumulated earnings and profits as of the effective date of the spin off. For each such stockholder, any amount that exceeded those earnings and profits would be treated first as a non taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholders tax basis in its shares of our common stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. We would be subject to tax as if we had sold all the outstanding shares of MPC common stock in a taxable sale for their fair market value and would recognize taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of such shares over our tax basis in such shares. Under the terms of the tax sharing agreement we entered into with MPC in connection with the spin off, MPC is generally responsible for any taxes imposed on MPC or us and our subsidiaries in the event that the spin off and or certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax free treatment as a result of actions taken, or breaches of representations and warranties made in the tax sharing agreement, by MPC or any of its affiliates. However, if the spin off and or certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax free treatment because of actions or failures to act by us or any of our affiliates, we would be responsible for all such taxes. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of Marathon Oil common stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other rights, including preferences over Marathon Oil common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our Board of Directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of Marathon Oil common stock. For example, we could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties The location and general character of our principal liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas properties, oil sands mining properties and facilities, and other important physical properties have been described by segment under Item 1. Business. Except for oil and gas producing properties, including oil sands mines, which generally are leased, or as otherwise stated, such properties are held in fee. The plants and facilities have been constructed or acquired over a period of years and vary in age and operating efficiency. At the date of acquisition of important properties, titles were examined and opinions of counsel obtained, but no title examination has been made specifically for the purpose of this document. The properties classified as owned in fee generally have been held for many years without any material unfavorably adjudicated claim. Net liquid hydrocarbon, natural gas, and synthetic crude oil sales volumes are set forth in 
 
