FILE:TRV/TRV-8K-20040318145154.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure.
     
On March 18, 2004, The St. Paul Companies, Inc. ("") issued a press release announcing that The St. Paul and Travelers Property Casualty Corp. ("") had executed a memorandum of understanding (the "") with the plaintiffs in all three of the pending purported securities class action lawsuits related to the proposed merger between The St. Paul and Travelers. The St. Paul and its subsidiary, Adams Acquisition Corp., were named as co-defendants in , one of the three purported class actions filed in Connecticut against Travelers and its board of directors. The final settlement of the actions is subject to, among other things, court approval. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The St. Paul
Travelers
Settlement
Farina v. Travelers Property Casualty Corp., et. al.
     
In connection with the Settlement, The St. Paul entered into the Second Amendment Agreement to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 16, 2003, as amended, by and among The St. Paul, Travelers and Adams Acquisition Corp., a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.1.
Item 7(c). Exhibits.
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 18, 2004
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 2.1
     SECOND AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (this "") dated as of March 18, 2004 by and among The St. Paul Companies, Inc., a Minnesota corporation (""), Travelers Property Casualty Corp., a Connecticut corporation (the ""), and Adams Acquisition Corp., a Connecticut corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Parent ("").
Second Amendment Agreement
Parent
Company
Merger Sub
     WHEREAS, the parties hereto are parties to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 16, 2003, as amended by that certain Amendment Agreement dated as of February 12, 2004 (as amended, the ""); and
Merger Agreement
     WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend the Merger Agreement to reduce the amount of the "Company Termination Fee" and the "Parent Termination Fee" (in each case, as defined in the Merger Agreement) from $300,000,000 to $275,000,000, all as set forth herein;
      NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:
     Section 1 Section 10.04(b) of the Merger Agreement is modified and amended by deleting the number "$300,000,000" and replacing it with the number "$275,000,000".
. Amendment.
     Section 10.04(c) of the Merger Agreement is modified and amended by deleting the number "$300,000,000" and replacing it with the number "$275,000,000".
     Except as amended hereby, the Merger Agreement (including the exhibits and schedules thereto) shall remain in full force and effect and is hereby ratified and confirmed.
     Section 2 The Merger Agreement (including the exhibits and schedules thereto), as amended hereby, together with the Confidentiality Agreement (as defined in the Merger Agreement), constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, both oral and written, between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof.
. Entire Agreement.
     Section 3. . Article 10 of the Merger Agreement (other than Sections 10.02, 10.04 and 10.10), is hereby incorporated by reference into this Second Amendment Agreement and made a part hereof, except that references in such Article to the Merger Agreement shall be deemed to refer this Second Amendment Agreement (other than references to specific provisions of the Merger Agreement, which shall be deemed to refer to such provisions of the Merger Agreement).
Miscellaneous
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Second Amendment Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.

EXHIBIT 99.1
Joan Palm U.S. Telephone: 651.310.2685 E-mail:
Media Contact:
joan.palm@stpaul.com
Laura Gagnon U.S. Telephone: 651.310.7696 E-mail:
Investor Contact:
laura.gagnon@stpaul.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
The St. Paul Companies announces settlement of litigation relating to merger with Travelers Property Casualty
SAINT PAUL, Minn., March 18, 2004 - The St. Paul Companies (NYSE: SPC) announced today that The St. Paul and Travelers have entered into a memorandum of understanding with the plaintiffs in all three of the pending purported securities class action lawsuits related to the proposed merger between The St. Paul and Travelers. The St. Paul and its subsidiary, Adams Acquisition Corp., were named as co-defendants in , one of the three purported class actions filed in Connecticut against Travelers and its board of directors. The final settlement of the actions is subject to, among other things, court approval.
Farina v. Travelers Property Casualty Corp., et. al.
     
In connection with the settlement, The St. Paul and Travelers agreed to reduce from $300 million to $275 million the termination fee payable by The St. Paul or Travelers under certain circumstances set forth in the Agreement and Plan of Merger, as amended, among The St. Paul, Travelers and Adams Acquisition Corp.
     
On Nov. 17, 2003, The St. Paul and Travelers announced a definitive merger agreement that will create the nation's second largest commercial insurer, to be known as The St. Paul Travelers Companies. The combined company will be a leading provider of property and casualty insurance products distributed through independent agents and brokers and one of the largest financial services companies in the United States. The
companies expect to close the transaction in early April 2004, pending receipt of regulatory and shareholder approvals. Shareholder meetings for both companies are scheduled to occur on March 19, 2004.
About The St. Paul Companies
     
The St. Paul Companies is headquartered in Saint Paul, Minnesota, and provides commercial property-liability insurance and asset management services. The St. Paul reported 2003 revenue of $8.85 billion and total assets of $39.56 billion. For additional information about The St. Paul see:
www.stpaul.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
     
This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform act of 1995. All Statements other than statements of historical facts may be forward-looking statements. Many risks and uncertainties may impact the matters addressed in forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. For a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ, please see the disclosure under the heading "Forward-Looking Statement Disclosure and Certain Risks' in the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


