FILE:TRV/TRV-8K-20060120060259.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
 
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
       
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
       
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
       
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
       
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02               Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Item 8.01               Other Events
 
On January 20, 2006, The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc. announced a decision by the
United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in connection with asbestos litigation with ACandS, Inc.  A press release is attached as Exhibit 99 to this Report and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
                   
(c)   Exhibits
 
 
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
SAINT PAUL, Minn.
 January 20, 2006  The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc. (St. Paul Travelers, NYSE:STA) today announced that the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit voided on procedural grounds a July 2003 arbitration decision that was in favor of Travelers in litigation brought by ACandS, Inc. The 2003 arbitration decision had found that third-party asbestos bodily injury claims against ACandS were subject to the aggregate limits of the policies issued by Travelers to ACandS, which had been exhausted. The procedural grounds upon which the Third Circuit's decision was based related to ACandS's bankruptcy proceedings. However, the court did not reject any of St. Paul Travelers' coverage positions.
 
As a consequence of this ruling, the Third Circuit also reinstated a case which, based on the 2003 arbitration decision, had been dismissed as moot in September 2004 by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (ACandS, Inc. v. Travelers Casualty and Surety Co., U.S.D.Ct., E.D. Pa.). In that case, ACandS asserted that each asbestos bodily injury claim against ACandS is subject to a separate occurrence limit under insurance policies issued by Travelers, while Travelers asserted that such claims are subject to a single occurrence limit, which had been exhausted.
 
St. Paul Travelers continues to believe that it has meritorious positions in these proceedings and intends to litigate vigorously.
 
The Third Circuit's decision is being analyzed and any impact will be reflected in St. Paul Travelers' previously announced 2005 review of asbestos reserves. St. Paul Travelers will review its fourth quarter and full-year 2005 financial performance, including a discussion of the company's annual review of asbestos reserves, via Webcast at 8:45 a.m. (ET) Thursday, Feb. 2, following the release of earnings earlier that morning.
 
St. Paul Travelers is a leading provider of property casualty insurance. For more information, visit www.stpaultravelers.com.
 
 
C
ontacts
 
 


