FILE:TRV/TRV-8K-20070312173026.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported) March 12, 2007 THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES, INC. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) MINNESOTA 001-10898 41-0518860 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (State or other jurisdiction of (Commission (IRS Employer incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 385 WASHINGTON STREET SAINT PAUL, MINNESOTA 55102 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (651) 310-7911 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Registrant's telephone number, including area code - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report.) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS. On March 12, 2007, The Travelers Companies, Inc. ("Travelers") completed the sale of $1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 6.25% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2067 (the "Notes"), which were registered pursuant to an automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3 filed on December 14, 2005 (SEC File No. 333-130323), as amended by Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 filed on March 5, 2007 (together, the "Registration Statement"). The Underwriting Agreement, dated March 5, 2007, by and among Travelers, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Lehman Brothers Inc., as representatives of the underwriters named therein, is being filed as Exhibit 1.1 to this report on Form 8-K and shall be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement. The Notes were issued pursuant to the Junior Subordinated Indenture, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), each dated as of March 12, 2007, between Travelers and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. The First Supplemental Indenture is being filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this report on Form 8-K and shall be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement. Travelers is also filing the form of the Notes as Exhibit 4.2 to this report on Form 8-K and is hereby causing this exhibit to be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement. In connection with the issuance of the Notes, Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP rendered an opinion regarding certain tax matters. A copy of that opinion is attached as Exhibit 8.1 to this report on Form 8-K. In connection with the issuance of the Notes, Travelers entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant, dated as of March 12, 2007 (the "RCC") whereby Travelers agreed for the benefit of certain of its debtholders named therein that neither it nor any of its subsidiaries would repay, redeem or purchase, as applicable, the Notes before March 15, 2047, unless during the applicable measurement period with respect to such repayment, redemption or purchase Travelers and its subsidiaries shall have issued specified amounts of certain replacement capital securities on the terms and conditions set forth therein. A copy of the RCC is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report on Form 8-K and shall be incorporated herein by reference. 2
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (d) Exhibits 1.1 Underwriting Agreement, dated March 5, 2007, by and among Travelers, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P.Morgan Securities Inc., and Lehman Brothers Inc., as representatives of the underwriters named therein. 4.1 First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 12, 2007, between Travelers and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. 4.2 Form of the Notes. 8.1 Tax Opinion of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, dated March 12, 2007. 99.1 Replacement Capital Covenant, dated as of March 12, 2007. 3
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES, INC. Date: March 12, 2007 By: /s/ Bruce A. Backberg Name: Bruce A. Backberg Title: Senior Vice President and Corporate Secretary 4
EXHIBIT INDEX 5

Exhibit 1.1 EXECUTION COPY THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES, INC. $1,000,000,000 6.25% FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES DUE 2067 Underwriting Agreement March 5, 2007 Citigroup Global Markets Inc. J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. Lehman Brothers Inc. As Representatives of the several Underwriters listed in Schedule 1 hereto c/o Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 388 Greenwich Street New York, NY 10013 Ladies and Gentlemen: The Travelers Companies, Inc., a Minnesota corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the several Underwriters listed in Schedule 1 hereto (the "Underwriters"), for whom you are acting as representatives (the "Representatives"), $1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 6.25% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2067 having the terms set forth in Schedule 3 hereto (the "Securities"). The Securities will be issued pursuant to a Junior Subordinated Indenture (the "Junior Subordinated Indenture"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture (the "First Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Junior Subordinated Indenture, the "Indenture"), each to be entered into between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee") on the Closing Date (as defined herein). 1. Registration Statement. The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "Securities Act"), an "automatic shelf registration statement" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) on Form S-3 (File No. 333-130323), as amended by the Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to the Registration Statement. For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms have the specified meanings:
Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus will be deemed to refer to and include any documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Form S-3 under the Securities Act as of the date of such Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be. Any reference to any amendment or supplement to any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus will be deemed to refer to and include any document filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), after the date of such Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be, and incorporated by reference in such Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be; and any reference to any amendment to the Registration Statement will be deemed to include any annual report of the Company on Form 10-K filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act after the Effective Date that is incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement. 2. Purchase of the Securities by the Underwriters. (a) The Company agrees to issue and sell the Securities to the several Underwriters as provided in this Agreement, and each Underwriter, on the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements set forth herein and subject to the conditions set forth herein, agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the respective principal amount of Securities set forth opposite such Underwriter's name in Schedule 1 hereto at a price equal to 98.742% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any, from March 12, 2007 to the Closing Date (as defined below). The Company will not be obligated to deliver any of the Securities except upon payment for all the Securities to be purchased as provided herein. (b) The Company understands that the Underwriters intend to make a public offering of the Securities as soon after the effectiveness of this Agreement as in the judgment of the Representatives is advisable, and initially to offer the Securities on the terms set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. The Company acknowledges and agrees that the Underwriters may offer and sell Securities to or through any affiliate of an Underwriter and that any such affiliate may offer and sell Securities purchased by it to or through any Underwriter. (c) Payment for and delivery of the Securities shall be made at the offices of Davis Polk & Wardwell at 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on March 12, 2007 (the "Closing Date"), or at such other time or place on the same or such other date, not later than the fifth business day thereafter, as the Representatives and the Company may agree upon in writing. (d) Payment for the Securities shall be made by wire transfer in immediately available funds to the account(s) specified by the Company to the Representatives against delivery to the nominee of The Depository Trust Company, for the account of the Underwriters, of one or more global notes representing the Securities (each a "Global Security"), with any transfer taxes payable in connection with the sale of the Securities duly 3
paid by the Company. Each Global Security will be made available for inspection by the Representatives not later than 1:00 P.M., New York City time, on the business day prior to the Closing Date. 3. Representations and Warranties of the Company. The Company represents, warrants and agrees (i) on and as of the date hereof, and (ii) on the Closing Date, that: (a) An "automatic shelf registration statement" (as defined in Rule 405 of under the Securities Act) on Form S-3 in respect of the Securities (File No. 333-130323) (i) has been prepared by the Company in conformity with the requirements of the Securities Act, (ii) has been filed with the Commission under the Securities Act not earlier than the date that is three years prior to the Closing Date and (iii) upon its filing with the Commission, automatically became and is effective under the Securities Act. Copies of such registration statement and any amendment thereto (excluding exhibits to such registration statement but including all documents incorporated by reference in each prospectus contained therein) have been delivered by the Company to the Representatives. (b) The Commission has not issued any order preventing or suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or preventing or suspending the use of any Preliminary Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus; and no proceeding for any such purpose has been instituted or threatened by the Commission. The Commission has not notified the Company of any objection to the use of the form of the Registration Statement. (c) The Company has been since the time of the initial filing of the Registration Statement, and continues to be, a "well-known seasoned issuer" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) and has not been, and continues not to be, an "ineligible issuer" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act), in each case at all times relevant under the Securities Act in connection with the offering of the Securities. (d) The Registration Statement conformed on the Effective Date and conforms, and any amendment to the Registration Statement filed after the date hereof will conform, in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act. The most recent Preliminary Prospectus conforms on the date hereof, and the Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto, will conform, in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act. The documents incorporated by reference in the most recent Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, conformed in all material respects, to the requirements of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and no such documents have been filed with the Commission since the close of business of the 4
Commission on the business day immediately prior to the date hereof except for such documents which the Company has shared with the Representatives and to which the Representatives have not reasonably objected. (e) The Registration Statement did not, as of the Effective Date, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; provided, however, that no representation or warranty is made as to information contained in or omitted from the Registration Statement in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company through the Representatives by or on behalf of any Underwriter specifically for inclusion therein. (f) The Disclosure Package did not, as of the Applicable Time, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided, however, that no representation or warranty is made as to information contained in or omitted from the Disclosure Package in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company through the Representatives by or on behalf of any Underwriter specifically for inclusion therein. (g) The Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto, will not, as of its date and on the Closing Date, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided, however, that no representation or warranty is made as to information contained in or omitted from the Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company through the Representatives by or on behalf of any Underwriter specifically for inclusion therein. (h) The documents incorporated by reference in any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus did not, and any further documents incorporated by reference therein will not, when filed with the Commission, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. (i) Neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries (as such term is defined under Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X) has sustained since the date of the latest financial statements included or incorporated by 5
Governmental Licenses would not have a Material Adverse Effect; the Company is in compliance with the terms and conditions of all such Governmental Licenses, except where the failure so to comply would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect; all of the Governmental Licenses are valid and in full force and effect, except where the failure to have such Governmental Licenses in full force and effect would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect; and the Company has not received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any such Governmental Licenses which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would have a Material Adverse Effect. 4. Further Agreements of the Company. The Company agrees with the Underwriters: (a) to prepare each Final Term Sheet, substantially in the form of Schedule 3 hereto and approved by the Representatives and file each Final Term Sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) of the Securities Act within the time period prescribed by such Rule; to prepare the Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, in relation to the Securities in a form approved by the Underwriters and to file or cause to be filed with the Commission such Prospectus, pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act, within the time period prescribed by such Rule; to make no further amendment or any supplement to the Registration Statement or Prospectus as amended or supplemented after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date which shall be disapproved by the Underwriters promptly after reasonable notice thereof; to advise the Underwriters promptly of any such amendment or supplement after such Closing Date and furnish the Underwriters with copies thereof and to file promptly all reports and any definitive proxy or information statements required to be filed by the Company with the Commission pursuant to Sections 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act for so long as the delivery of a prospectus is required in connection with the offering or sale of such Securities, and during such same period to advise the Underwriters, promptly after it receives notice thereof, of the time when any amendment to the Registration Statement has been filed or any supplement to the most recent Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus or any amended Prospectus has been filed with the Commission, of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any prospectus relating to the Securities or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, of the suspension of the qualification of such Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, of the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for any such purpose, or of any request by the Commission for the amending or supplementing of the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or for additional information; and, in the event of the issuance of any such stop order or of any such order preventing or suspending the use of any 11
(e) to make generally available to security-holders of the Company as soon as practicable, but in any event not later than eighteen months after the effective date of the Registration Statement (as defined in Rule 158(c) under the Securities Act), an earnings statement of the Company and its subsidiaries (which need not be audited) complying with Section 11(a) of the Securities Act (including, at the option of the Company, Rule 158 thereunder); (f) for a period of 30 days after the date of this Agreement, neither the Company, nor any of its subsidiaries or other affiliates over which it exercises management or voting control, nor any person acting on their behalf will, without the prior written consent of the Representatives, offer, sell, contract to sell or otherwise dispose of any securities that are substantially similar to the Securities. (g) to pay the required Commission filing fees related to the Securities within the time period required by Rule 456(b)(1) under the Securities Act without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r) under the Securities Act; (h) to execute and deliver the Junior Subordinated Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture and the Replacement Capital Covenant in the form and substance to the reasonable satisfaction of the Underwriters; (i) to apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Securities as described in the most recent Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the heading "Use of Proceeds"; (j) not to take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that could reasonably be expected to cause or result in any stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Securities; and (k) to take all reasonable actions necessary to enable any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization", as that term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act (a "Rating Agency"), to provide respective ratings of the Securities. 5. Free Writing Prospectuses. (a) The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, each Underwriter that (i) the Company has not made, and will not, make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus without the prior consent of the Representatives (which consent being deemed to have been given with respect to (A) each Final Term Sheet prepared and filed pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof and (B) any other Issuer Free Writing Prospectus identified on Schedule 2 13
hereto); (ii) each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conformed or will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act on the date of first use, and the Company has complied with any filing requirements applicable to such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus pursuant to Rule 433 under the Securities Act; (iii) each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus will not, as of its issue date and through the time the Securities are delivered pursuant to Section 2 hereof, include any information that conflicts with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the most recent Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus; and (iv) each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, when considered together with the information contained in the most recent Preliminary Prospectus, did not, as of the Applicable Time, does not, as of the date hereof, and will not, as of the Closing Date, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, provided, however, that this representation and warranty shall not apply to any statements or omissions in an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company by an Underwriter through the Representatives for use therein. (b) Each Underwriter represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the Company and each other Underwriter that it has not made, and will not make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) required to be filed with the Commission, other than the information contained in the Final Term Sheet, without the prior consent of the Company and the Representatives. (c) The Company agrees that if at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus any event occurred or occurs as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus would conflict with the information in the Registration Statement, the most recent Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances then prevailing, not misleading, the Company will give prompt notice thereof to the Representatives and, if requested by the Representatives, will prepare and furnish without charge to each Underwriter an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or other document which will correct such conflict, statement or omission. 6. Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations. The respective obligations of the Underwriters hereunder shall be subject, in the discretion of the Underwriters, to the condition that all representations and warranties and other statements by the Company herein are, and as of the Closing Date will be, true and correct, and to the condition that the Company shall have performed all of its 14
(i) On or after the date hereof there shall not have occurred any of the following: (i) a suspension or material limitation in trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange; (ii) a suspension or material limitation in trading in the Company's securities on the New York Stock Exchange; (iii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities declared by either Federal or New York State authorities or a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States; (iv) the outbreak or escalation of hostilities involving the United States or the declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war or (v) the occurrence of any other calamity or crisis or any change in financial, political or economic conditions in the United States or elsewhere, if the effect of any such event specified in clause (iv) or (v) in the judgment of the Representatives makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated in the most recent Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus and this Agreement; (j) The Company shall have complied with the provisions of Section 4(a) hereof with respect to the filing of the Prospectus and the Final Term Sheets; (k) No injunction, judgment, order, decree or other legal or governmental action prohibiting the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby shall have been issued and remain in effect or shall have been publicly announced by any court or announced, or threatened in writing, by a regulatory agency or other governmental body; and (l) The Company shall have furnished or caused to be furnished to the Underwriters on the Closing Date certificates of officers of the Company satisfactory to the Underwriters as to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company herein at such Closing Date, as to the performance by the Company of all of its respective obligations hereunder to be performed at or prior to such Closing Date, as to the matters set forth in subsections (a), (g) and (h) of this Section and as to such other matters as the Underwriters may reasonably request. 7. Indemnification and Contribution. (a) The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Underwriter may become subject, under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon the failure to have an effective Registration Statement relating to the Securities or the failure to satisfy the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act because the Company failed to provide the Underwriters 17
Section 20 of the Exchange Act, and shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successors, assigns, heirs and personal representatives of the Company, the Underwriters; and the obligations of the Underwriters under this Section 7 shall be in addition to any liability which the respective Underwriters may otherwise have and shall extend, upon the same terms and conditions, to each officer and director of the Company and to each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act. 8. Termination. This Agreement may be terminated in the absolute discretion of the Representatives, by notice to the Company, if after the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date (i) trading generally shall have been suspended or materially limited on the New York Stock Exchange or the over-the-counter market; (ii) trading of any securities issued or guaranteed by the Company shall have been suspended on any exchange or in any over-the-counter market; (iii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities shall have been declared by federal or New York State authorities; or (iv) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities or any change in financial markets or any calamity or crisis, either within or outside the United States, that, in the judgment of the Representatives, is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement, the most recent Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus. 9. Defaulting Underwriter. (a) If, on the Closing Date, any Underwriter defaults on its obligation to purchase the Securities that it has agreed to purchase hereunder, the non-defaulting Underwriters may in their discretion arrange for the purchase of such Securities by other persons satisfactory to the Company on the terms contained in this Agreement. If, within 36 hours after any such default by any Underwriter, the non-defaulting Underwriters do not arrange for the purchase of such Securities, then the Company shall be entitled to a further period of 36 hours within which to procure other persons satisfactory to the non-defaulting Underwriters to purchase such Securities on such terms. If other persons become obligated or agree to purchase the Securities of a defaulting Underwriter, either the non-defaulting Underwriters or the Company may postpone the Closing Date for up to five full business days in order to effect any changes that in the opinion of counsel for the Company or counsel for the Underwriters may be necessary in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or in any other document or arrangement, and the Company agrees to promptly prepare any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus that effects any such changes. As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" includes, for all purposes of this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires, any person not listed in this Agreement that, pursuant to this Section 9, purchases Securities that a defaulting Underwriter agreed but failed to purchase. 21
(b) If, after giving effect to any arrangements for the purchase of the Securities of a defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters by the non-defaulting Underwriters and the Company as provided in paragraph (a) above, the aggregate principal amount of such Securities that remains unpurchased does not exceed one-eleventh of the aggregate principal amount of all the Securities, then the Company shall have the right to require each non-defaulting Underwriter to purchase the principal amount of Securities that such Underwriter agreed to purchase hereunder plus such Underwriter's pro rata share (based on the principal amount of Securities that such Underwriter agreed to purchase hereunder) of the Securities of such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters for which such arrangements have not been made. (c) If, after giving effect to any arrangements for the purchase of the Securities of a defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters by the non-defaulting Underwriters and the Company as provided in paragraph (a) above, the aggregate principal amount of such Securities that remains unpurchased exceeds one-eleventh of the aggregate principal amount of all the Securities, or if the Company shall not exercise the right described in paragraph (b) above, then this Agreement shall terminate without liability on the part of the non-defaulting Underwriters. Any termination of this Agreement pursuant to this Section 9 shall be without liability on the part of the Company, except that the Company will continue to be liable for the payment of expenses as set forth in Section 10 hereof and except that the provisions of Section 7 hereof shall not terminate and shall remain in effect. (d) Nothing contained herein shall relieve a defaulting Underwriter of any liability it may have to the Company or any non-defaulting Underwriter for damages caused by its default. 10. Payment of Expenses. (a) The Company covenants and agrees with the Underwriters that, whether or not the transactions contemplated herein are consummated, the Company will pay or cause to be paid the following: (i) the fees, disbursements and expenses of the Company's counsel and accountants in connection with the preparation, printing and filing of any Preliminary Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and the Prospectus and amendments and supplements thereto and the mailing and delivering of copies thereof to the Underwriters; (ii) the cost of printing or producing this Agreement, any Blue Sky Memorandum, closing documents (including compilations thereof) and any other documents in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities, including the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the Underwriters preparing such Blue Sky Memorandum; (iii) all expenses in connection with the qualification of the Securities for offering and sale under state securities laws and insurance securities laws as provided in Section 4(b) hereof; (iv) the filing fees in connection with securing any required review by the NASD of the terms of the issuance and sale of the Securities; (v) the cost of preparing the 22
Securities; (vi) fees, expenses and disbursements of the Trustee, any transfer agent or registrar, any agent of or counsel to any of the foregoing, in connection with the Securities or this Agreement; (vii) any travel expenses of the Company's officers and employees and any other expenses of the Company in connection with attending or hosting meetings with prospective purchasers of the Securities; and (viii) all other costs and expenses incident to the performance of the obligations of the Company hereunder which are not otherwise specifically provided for in this Section. It is understood, however, that, except as provided in this Section and Section 7 hereof, the Underwriters will pay all of their own costs and expenses, including the fees, disbursements and expenses of counsel for the Underwriters other than fees and expenses to be borne by the Company as specified in subsection (ii) above. (b) If (i) this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 8, (ii) the Company for any reason fails to tender the Securities for delivery to the Underwriters or (iii) the Underwriters decline to purchase the Securities for any reason permitted under this Agreement, the Company agrees to reimburse the Underwriters for all out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including the reasonable fees and expenses of their counsel) reasonably incurred by the Underwriters in connection with this Agreement and the offering contemplated hereby. 11. Persons Entitled to Benefit of Agreement. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and any controlling persons referred to herein, and the affiliates of each Underwriter referred to in Section 7 hereof. Nothing in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any other person any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision contained herein. No purchaser of Securities from any Underwriter shall be deemed to be a successor merely by reason of such purchase. 12. Survival. The respective indemnities, rights of contribution, representations, warranties and agreements of the Company and the Underwriters contained in this Agreement or made by or on behalf of the Company or the Underwriters pursuant to this Agreement or any certificate delivered pursuant hereto shall survive the delivery of and payment for the Securities and shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any termination of this Agreement or any investigation made by or on behalf of the Company or the Underwriters. 13. Certain Defined Terms. For purposes of this Agreement, (a) except where otherwise expressly provided, the term "affiliate" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act; (b) the term "business day" means any day other than a day on which banks are permitted or required to be closed in New York City; and (c) the term "subsidiary" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act. 23
14. No Fiduciary Duty. The Company acknowledges and agrees that the Underwriters are acting solely in the capacity of an arm's length contractual counterparty to the Company with respect to the offering of Securities contemplated hereby (including in connection with determining the terms of the offering) and not as a financial advisor or a fiduciary to, or an agent of, the Company or any other person. Additionally, neither the Representatives nor any other Underwriter is advising the Company or any other person as to any legal, tax, investment, accounting or regulatory matters in any jurisdiction. The Company shall consult with its own advisors concerning such matters and shall be responsible for making their own independent investigation and appraisal of the transactions contemplated hereby, and the Underwriters shall have no responsibility or liability to the Company with respect thereto. Any review by the Underwriters of the Company, the transactions contemplated hereby or other matters relating to such transactions will be performed solely for the benefit of the Underwriters and shall not be on behalf of the Company. 15. Miscellaneous. (a) Authority of the Representatives. Any action by the Underwriters hereunder may be taken by the Representatives on behalf of the Underwriters, and any such action taken by the Representatives shall be binding upon the Underwriters. (b) Notices. All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted and confirmed by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Underwriters shall be given to the Representatives at the addresses set forth in this Agreement. Notices to the Company shall be given to it at 385 Washington Street, St. Paul, Minnesota 55102, (fax: (651) 310-5853); Attention: General Counsel. (c) Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. (d) Amendments or Waivers. No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor any consent or approval to any departure therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto. (e) Headings. The headings herein are included for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be part of, or to affect the meaning or interpretation of, this Agreement. 24
Accepted: CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC. /s/ Jack D. McSpadden, Jr. - ------------------------------------- Name: Jack D. McSpadden, Jr. Title: Managing Director J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC. /s/ Jose Padilla - ------------------------------------- Name: Jose Padilla Title: Vice President LEHMAN BROTHERS INC. /s/ Martin Goldberg - ------------------------------------- Name: Martin Goldberg Title: Senior Vice President For themselves and as Representatives of the Underwriters
SCHEDULE 1
SCHEDULE 2 ISSUER FREE WRITING PROSPECTUSES Final Term Sheet, dated March 5, 2007, relating to the Securities, as filed pursuant to Rule 433 under the Securities Act and attached as Schedule 3 hereto.
SCHEDULE 3 THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES, INC. FINAL TERM SHEET
Issuer: The Travelers Companies, Inc. (Ticker: TRV) Title of Security: 6.25% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2067 Scheduled Maturity Date: March 15, 2037, or, if such date is not a business day, the following business day Aggregate Principal Amount: $1,000,000,000 Final Maturity Date: March 15, 2067, or if such date is not a business day, the following business day Interest Rates: 6.25% per annum to but excluding March 15, 2017, and Three-month LIBOR + 221.5 bp per annum from and including March 15, 2017 until the Final Maturity Date, unless redeemed or repaid earlier Interest Payment Dates: Each March 15 and September 15 until March 15, 2017, and thereafter each March 15, June 15, September 15, and December 15 until the Final Maturity Date, unless redeemed or repaid earlier First Interest Payment Date: September 15, 2007 Trade Date: March 5, 2007 Settlement Date (T+5): March 12, 2007 Applicable Spreads for the Purposes of +50 bp if the redemption is within 90 Calculating Redemption Prices: days after the occurrence of a tax event or a rating agency event; and +25 bp in other cases Benchmark: UST 4.625% due February 15, 2017 Benchmark Yield: 4.505% Reoffer Spread: +178 bp Reoffer Yield: 6.285% Price to Public: 99.742% CUSIP: 89417EAA7 Joint Book-Running Manager and Sole Structuring Advisor: Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Joint Book-Running Managers: J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. Lehman Brothers Inc. Co-Managers: Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR(R) on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Citigroup Global Markets Inc. at toll-free 1-877-858-5407, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. at 1-212-834-4533 (collect) or Lehman Brothers Inc. at toll-free 1-888-603-5847.
EXHIBIT A-1 [Form of Simpson Thacher corporate opinion]
EXHIBIT A-2 [Form of Simpson Thacher negative assurance letter]
EXHIBIT B-1 [Form of Bruce Backberg's corporate opinion]
EXHIBIT B-2 [Form of Bruce Backberg's negative assurance letter]

Exhibit 4.1 FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE between THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES, INC. and THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A. Supplemental to Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of March 12, 2007
TABLE OF CONTENTS i
Section 5.05. Repayment of Debentures........................................................ 28 ARTICLE 6 ORIGINAL ISSUE OF DEBENTURES Section 6.01. Calculation of Original Issue Discount......................................... 29 ARTICLE 7 SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES Section 7.01. Supplemental Indentures Without Consent Of Holders............................. 29 ARTICLE 8 MISCELLANEOUS Section 8.01. Effectiveness.................................................................. 30 Section 8.02. Successors and Assigns......................................................... 30 Section 8.03. Effect of Recitals............................................................. 30 Section 8.04. Ratification of Indenture...................................................... 30 Section 8.05. Governing Law.................................................................. 30 Section 8.06. Jury Trial Waiver.............................................................. 30 Section 8.07. Severability................................................................... 31
ii
FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of March 12, 2007 (the "FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE"), between THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES, INC., a Minnesota corporation (the "COMPANY"), having its principal office at 385 Washington Street, St. Paul, Minnesota 55102, and THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (hereinafter called the "TRUSTEE"). RECITALS OF THE COMPANY The Company and the Trustee entered into a Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of March 12, 2007 (the "INDENTURE"). Section 901 of the Indenture provides that the Company and the Trustee may, without the consent of any Holder, enter into a supplemental indenture to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Section 201 or 301 thereof. Pursuant to Sections 201 and 301 of the Indenture, the Company desires to provide for the establishment of a series of Securities under the Indenture, and the form and terms thereof, as hereinafter set forth. The Company has requested that the Trustee execute and deliver this First Supplemental Indenture. The Company has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel and an Officers' Certificate pursuant to Sections 102, 303 and 903 of the Indenture to the effect, among other things, that all conditions precedent provided for in the Indenture to the Trustee's execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture have been complied with. All acts and things necessary have been done and performed to make this First Supplemental Indenture enforceable in accordance with its terms, and the execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized in all respects. NOW, THEREFORE, THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE WITNESSETH: For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Debentures (as herein defined) by the Holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Debentures, as follows: ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS Section 1.01. Definitions. For all purposes of this First Supplemental Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) Terms defined in the Indenture (as defined herein) have the same meaning when used in this First Supplemental Indenture unless otherwise defined herein. (b) The terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article, and include the plural as well as the singular. (c) The words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this First Supplemental Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision, and any reference to an Article, Section or other subdivision refers to an Article, Section or other subdivision of this First Supplemental Indenture. (d) Any reference herein to "interest" shall include any Additional Interest. In addition, the following terms used in this First Supplemental Indenture have the following respective meanings: "ADDITIONAL INTEREST" means the interest, if any, that shall accrue on any interest on the Debentures the payment of which has not been made on the applicable Interest Payment Date. "APM PERIOD" means, with respect to any Deferral Period, the period commencing on the earlier of (i) the first Interest Payment Date following the commencement of such Deferral Period on which the Company pays any current interest on the Debentures (which the Company may do from any source of funds) or (ii) the fifth anniversary of the commencement of the Deferral Period, if on such date such Deferral Period has not ended, and ending on the next Interest Payment Date on which the Company raised an amount of Eligible Proceeds at least equal to the aggregate amount of accrued and unpaid deferred interest, including compounded interest, on the Debentures. "APPLICABLE SPREAD" means, with respect to a redemption of the Debentures, 0.50% in the case of a Tax Event or a Rating Agency Event and 0.25% in all other cases. "BUSINESS DAY" means any day other than (i) a Saturday or Sunday, (ii) a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or required by law or executive order to remain closed or (iii) a day on which the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, is closed for business. "BUSINESS COMBINATION" means any transaction that is subject to Section 801 of the Indenture. 2
"CALCULATION AGENT" means, with respect to the Debentures, The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., or any other firm appointed by the Company, acting as calculation agent in respect of the Debentures. "COMMERCIALLY REASONABLE EFFORTS" to sell Qualifying Capital Securities means, commercially reasonable efforts to complete the offer and sale of Qualifying Capital Securities to Persons other than Subsidiaries in public offerings or private placements. The Company shall not be considered to have made Commercially Reasonable Efforts to effect a sale of Qualifying Capital Securities if it determines not to pursue or complete such sale solely due to pricing, coupon, dividend rate or dilution considerations. "COMMON STOCK" means the Company's common stock (including treasury shares of common stock), common stock issued pursuant to any dividend reinvestment plan or the Company's employee benefit plans, a security of the Company's, ranking upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up junior to Qualifying Preferred Stock and pari passu with the Company's common stock, that tracks the performance of, or relates to the results of, a business, unit or division of the Company, and any securities issued in exchange therefore in connection with a merger, consolidation, binding share exchange, business combination, recapitalization or other similar event. "COMMON EQUITY ISSUANCE CAP" has the meaning specified in Section 2.06(a). "COMPANY" has the meaning specified in the Recitals. "CURRENT STOCK MARKET PRICE" means, with respect to the Company's common stock on any date, (i) the closing sale price per share (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on that date as reported in composite transactions by the New York Stock Exchange or, (ii) if the Company's common stock is not then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported by the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Company's common stock is traded or quoted on the relevant date or, (iii) if the Company's common stock is not listed on any U.S. securities exchange on the relevant date, the last quoted bid price for the Company's common stock in the over-the-counter market on the relevant date as reported by the National Quotation Bureau or similar organization, or (iv) if the Company's common stock is not so quoted, the average of the mid-point of the last bid and ask prices for the Company's common stock on the relevant date from each of at least three nationally recognized independent investment banking firms selected by the Company for this purpose. "DEBENTURES" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01. "DEFERRAL PERIOD" means the period commencing on an Interest Payment 3
Date with respect to which the Company elects to defer interest pursuant to Section 2.05 and ending on the earlier of (i) the tenth anniversary of that Interest Payment Date and (ii) the next Interest Payment Date on which the Company has paid all deferred and unpaid amounts (including compounded interest on such deferred amounts) with respect to any subsequent period and all other accrued interest on the Debentures. "ELIGIBLE PROCEEDS" means, for each relevant Interest Payment Date, the net proceeds (after underwriters' or placement agents' fees, commissions or discounts and other expenses relating to the issuance or sale) the Company has received during the 180-day period prior to such Interest Payment Date from the issuance or sale of Qualifying APM Securities (excluding sales of Qualifying Preferred Stock and Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock in excess of the Preferred Stock Issuance Cap) to persons that are not the Company's Subsidiaries "FINAL MATURITY DATE" has the meaning specified in Section 2.02(b). "FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more agreements supplemental hereto. "INDENTURE" has the meaning specified in the Recitals. "INTEREST PAYMENT DATES" shall have the meaning specified in Section 2.04. "INTEREST PERIOD" means a Semi-Annual Interest Period or a Quarterly Interest Period, as the case may be. "LIBOR DETERMINATION DATE" means the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of the relevant Quarterly Interest Period. "LONDON BANKING DAY" means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London. "MAKE-WHOLE REDEMPTION PRICE" means, with respect to a redemption of the Debentures in whole or in part, the present value of a principal payment on March 15, 2017 and scheduled payments of interest that would have accrued from the Redemption Date to March 15, 2017 on the Debentures being redeemed, discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at a discount rate equal to the Treasury Rate (as determined and provided to the Calculation Agent by the Treasury Dealer) plus the Applicable Spread, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption Date, determined by the Calculation Agent. "MANDATORILY CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK" means Preferred Stock with (a) no prepayment obligation of the liquidation preference on the part of the issuer 4
thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, and (b) a requirement that the preferred stock converts into the Company's Common Stock within three years from the date of its issuance at a conversion ratio within a range established at the time of issuance of the Preferred Stock. "MARKET DISRUPTION EVENT" means, with respect to the issuance or sale of Qualifying Capital Securities pursuant to Section 2.02 or Qualifying APM Securities pursuant to Section 2.06, the occurrence or existence of any of the following events or sets of circumstances: (i) Trading in securities generally, or shares of the Company's securities specifically, on the New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or in the over-the-counter market on which Qualifying APM Securities or Qualifying Capital Securities, as the case may be, are then listed or traded shall have been suspended or the settlement of such trading generally shall have been materially disrupted or minimum prices shall have been established on any such exchange or market by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, by the relevant exchange or by any other regulatory agency or governmental body having jurisdiction such that trading shall have been materially disrupted; (ii) The Company would be required to obtain the consent or approval of the Company's stockholders or a regulatory body (including, without limitation, any securities exchange) or governmental authority to issue or sell Qualifying APM Securities pursuant to Section 2.06 or to issue Qualifying Capital Securities pursuant to Section 2.02, as the case may be, and such consent or approval has not yet been obtained notwithstanding the Company's commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such consent or approval; (iii) A banking moratorium shall have been declared by the federal or state authorities of the United States such that market trading in the Qualifying APM Securities or the Qualifying Capital Securities, as applicable, has been disrupted or ceased; (iv) A material disruption shall have occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States such that market trading in the Qualifying APM Securities or the Qualifying Capital Securities, as applicable, has been disrupted or ceased; (v) The United States shall have become engaged in hostilities, there shall have been an escalation in hostilities involving the United States, there shall have been a declaration of a national emergency or war by the United States or there shall have occurred any other national or international calamity or crisis such that market trading in the Qualifying APM Securities or the Qualifying Capital Securities, as applicable, has been disrupted or ceased; 5
(vi) There shall have occurred such a material adverse change in general domestic or international economic, political or financial conditions, including without limitation as a result of terrorist activities, or the effect of international conditions on the financial markets in the United States shall be such that trading Qualifying APM Securities or Qualifying Capital Securities, as applicable, shall have been materially disrupted; (vii) An event occurs and is continuing as a result of which the offering document for such offer and sale of Qualifying Capital Securities or Qualifying APM Securities, as the case may be, would, in the reasonable judgment of the Company, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and either (x) the disclosure of that event at such time, in the reasonable judgment of the Company, is not otherwise required by law and would have a material adverse effect on the business of the Company or (y) the disclosure relates to a previously undisclosed proposed or pending material business transaction, provided that no single suspension period contemplated by this clause (vii) shall exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods contemplated by this clause (vii) shall not exceed an aggregate of 180 days in any 360-day period; or (viii) The Company reasonably believes that the offering document for such offer and sale of Qualifying Capital Securities or Qualifying APM Securities, as the case may be, would not be in compliance with a rule or regulation of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (for reasons other than those referred to in clause (vii) above), and the Company determines it is unable to comply with such rule or regulation or such compliance is unduly burdensome, provided that no single suspension period contemplated by this clause (viii) shall exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods contemplated by this clause (viii) shall not exceed an aggregate of 180 days in any 360-day period. "PARI PASSU SECURITIES" means indebtedness of the Company that ranks in right of payment upon liquidation on a parity with the Debentures, and includes the Debentures. "PREFERRED STOCK" means the preferred stock of the Company. "PREFERRED STOCK ISSUANCE CAP" has the meaning specified in Section 2.06(a). "QUALIFYING APM SECURITIES" means Common Stock, Qualifying Preferred Stock, Qualifying Warrants, and Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, provided that the Company may, without the consent of the holders of the Debentures, amend the definition of "Qualifying APM Securities" to eliminate Common Stock and/or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock from this definition if, after March 12, 2007, an accounting standard or interpretive 6
guidance of an existing accounting standard issued by an organization or regulator that has responsibility for establishing or interpreting accounting standards in the United States becomes effective such that there is more than an insubstantial risk that failure to eliminate Common Stock and/or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock from the definition would result in a reduction in the Company's earnings per share as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The Company shall promptly notify the holders of the Debentures, in the manner contemplated in the Indenture, of such change. "QUALIFYING PREFERRED STOCK" means the Company's non-cumulative perpetual Preferred Stock that ranks pari passu with or junior to all of the Company's other Preferred Stock, is perpetual and (a) is subject to a Replacement Capital Covenant substantially similar to the Replacement Capital Covenant or an "Other Qualifying Capital Replacement Covenant", as such term is defined in the Replacement Capital Covenant or (b) is subject to both (i) mandatory suspension of dividends in the event the Company breaches certain financial metrics specified within the offering documents for such Preferred Stock and (ii) "Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure", as such term is defined in the Replacement Capital Covenant. Additionally, in both (a) and (b) the transaction documents for such Preferred Stock shall provide for no remedies as a consequence of non-payment of distributions other than "Permitted Remedies", as such term is defined in the Replacement Capital Covenant. "QUALIFYING CAPITAL SECURITIES" has the meaning specified in the Replacement Capital Covenant. "QUALIFYING WARRANTS" means any net share settled warrants to purchase Common Stock that (1) have an exercise price greater than the Current Stock Market Price of Common Stock, and (2) that the Company is not entitled to redeem for cash and the holders of which are not entitled to require the Company to purchase for cash in any circumstances. "QUARTERLY INTEREST PAYMENT DATE" shall have the meaning specified in Section 2.04. "QUARTERLY INTEREST PERIOD" the period beginning on and including March 15, 2017 and ending on but excluding the next Interest Payment Date and each successive period beginning on and including an Interest Payment Date and ending on but excluding the next interest payment date. "RATING AGENCY EVENT" means a change by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1 under the Exchange Act that currently publishes a rating for the Company (in this definition, a "rating agency") to its equity credit criteria for securities such as the Debentures, as such criteria was in effect on March 5, 2007 (in this definition, the "current criteria"), which change results in (x) the length of time for which such current criteria is scheduled to be in effect is shortened with respect to the 7
Debentures or (y) a lower equity credit being given to the Debentures as of the date of such change than the equity credit that would have been assigned to the Debentures as of the date of such change by such rating agency pursuant to its current criteria. "REGULAR RECORD DATE" means (i) with respect to a Semi-Annual Interest Payment Date, on March 1 or September 1, as any case may be, next preceding the relevant Interest Payment date, and (ii) with respect any Quarterly Interest Payment Date, the 15th day preceding the relevant Interest Payment Date. "REPAYMENT DATE" means the Scheduled Maturity Date and each Quarterly Interest Payment Date thereafter until the Company shall have repaid or redeemed all of the Debentures. "REPLACEMENT CAPITAL COVENANT" means the Replacement Capital Covenant, dated as of March 12, 2007, by the Company, as the same may be amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the provisions thereof and Section 2.02(a)(vii) hereof. "RESPONSIBLE OFFICER OF THE PAYING AGENT" means, with respect to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. in its capacity as Paying Agent, any officer within the corporate trust department (or any successor department, unit or division of The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.) assigned to the paying agent office of The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., in its capacity as Paying Agent, who has direct responsibility for the administration of the Paying Agent functions of the Indenture. "REUTERS PAGE LIBOR01" means the display so designated on the Reuters 3000 Xtra (or such other page as may replace that page on that service, or such other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to the London Interbank Offered rate for U.S. dollar deposits). "SCHEDULED MATURITY DATE" has the meaning specified in Section 2.02(a). "SECURITIES REGISTRAR" means, with respect to the Debentures, The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., or any other firm appointed by the Company, acting as securities registrar for the Debentures. "SECURITIES REGISTRAR OFFICE" means the office of the applicable Securities Registrar at which at any particular time its corporate agency business shall principally be administered, which office at the date hereof in the case of The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., in its capacity as Securities Registrar under the Indenture, is located at 222 Berkeley Street, 2nd floor, Boston, MA 02116, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration. "SEMI-ANNUAL INTEREST PAYMENT DATE" shall have the meaning specified in Section 2.04. 8
"SEMI-ANNUAL INTEREST PERIOD" means the period beginning on and including March 12, 2007 and ending on but excluding the first Interest Payment Date and each successive period beginning on and including an Interest Payment Date and ending on but excluding the next Interest Payment Date until March 15, 2017. "SHARE CAP AMOUNT" has the meaning specified in Section 2.06. "TAX EVENT" means the receipt by the Company of an opinion of counsel experienced in such matters to the effect that, as a result of any: (i) amendment to or change (including any officially announced proposed change) in the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision or taxing authority of or in the United States that is effective on or after March 12, 2007, (ii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced on or after March 12, 2007, or (iii) threatened challenge asserted in connection with an audit of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or a threatened challenge asserted in writing against any tax payer that has raised capital through the issuance of securities that are substantially similar to the Debentures and which securities, as of their issue date, were rated at least investment grade by at least two nationally recognized statistical rating organizations within the meaning of Rule 15C3-1 under the Exchange Act, there is more than an insubstantial increase in the risk that interest payable by the Company on the Debentures is not, or within 90 days of the date of such opinion will not be, deductible by the Company, in whole or in part, for United States federal income tax purposes. "THREE-MONTH LIBOR" means, with respect to any Quarterly Interest Period, the rate (expressed as a percentage per annum) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Quarterly Interest Period that appears on Reuters Page LIBOR01 as of 11:00 a.m., London time, on the LIBOR Determination Date for that Quarterly Interest Period. If such rate does not appear on Reuters Page LIBOR01, Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Quarterly Interest Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Calculation Agent (after consultation with the Company), at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the LIBOR Determination Date for that Quarterly Interest Period. The Calculation Agent will request the principal London office of each of these banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Quarterly Interest Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest whole multiple of 0.00001%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Quarterly Interest Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest whole multiple of 0.00001%) of the rates quoted by three 9
major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent (after consultation with the Company), at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Quarterly Interest Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Quarterly Interest Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent to provide quotations are quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Quarterly Interest Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Quarterly Interest Period or, in the case of the Quarterly Interest Period beginning on March 15, 2017, 6.25%. The establishment of Three-Month LIBOR for each Quarterly Interest Period by the Calculation Agent shall (in the absence of manifest error) be final and binding. "TRADING DAY" means a day on which Common Stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, or if not then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, a day on which Common Stock is traded or quoted on the principal U.S. securities exchange on which it is listed or quoted, or if not then listed or quoted on a U.S. securities exchange, a day on which Common Stock is quoted in the over-the-counter market. "TREASURY DEALER" means Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (or its successor) or, if Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (or its successor) refuses to act as Treasury Dealer for the purpose of determining the Make-Whole Redemption Price or ceases to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer, another nationally recognized investment banking firm that is a primary U.S. Government securities dealer specified by the Company to act as Treasury Dealer for the purpose of determining the Make-Whole Redemption Price. "TREASURY PRICE" means, with respect to a Redemption Date, the bid-side price for the Treasury Security as of the third Trading Day preceding the Redemption Date, as set forth in the daily statistical release (or any successor release) published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on that Trading Day and designated "Composite 3:30 p.m. Quotations for U.S. Government Securities," as determined by the Treasury Dealer, except that: (i) if that release (or any successor release) is not published or does not contain that price information on that Trading Day, or (ii) if the Treasury Dealer determines that the price information is not reasonably reflective of the actual bid-side price of the Treasury Security prevailing at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on that Trading Day, then Treasury Price will instead mean the bid-side price for the Treasury Security at or around 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on that Trading Day (expressed on a next Trading Day settlement basis) as determined by the Treasury Dealer through such alternative means as are commercially reasonable under the circumstances. "TREASURY RATE" means, with respect to a Redemption Date, the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Treasury Security that corresponds to the Treasury Price (calculated by the Treasury Dealer in accordance with standard 10
market practice and computed as of the second Trading Day preceding the Redemption Date). "TREASURY SECURITY" means the United States Treasury security that the Treasury Dealer determines would be appropriate to use, at the time of determination and in accordance with standard market practice, in pricing the Debentures being redeemed in a tender offer based on a spread to United States Treasury yields. ARTICLE 2 GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE DEBENTURES Section 2.01. Designation, Principal Amount and Authorized Denominations. (a) Designation. Pursuant to Section 201 and 301 of the Indenture, there is hereby established a series of Securities of the Company designated as the 6.25% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2067 (the "DEBENTURES"), the principal amount of which to be issued shall be in accordance with Section 2.01(b) hereof and as set forth in any Company Order for the authentication and delivery of Debentures pursuant to the Indenture, and the form and terms of which shall be as set forth hereinafter. (b) Principal Amount. Debentures in an initial aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000,000 shall, upon execution of this First Supplemental Indenture, be executed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent for authentication, and the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent shall thereupon authenticate and deliver said Debentures in accordance with a Company Order. Additional Debentures may be issued pursuant to this First Supplemental Indenture so long as such additional Debentures are fungible for U.S. tax purposes with the Debentures issued as of the date of this First Supplemental Indenture. Any additional Debentures issued under this First Supplemental Indenture will rank equally and ratably in right of payment with the Debentures issued on the date of this First Supplemental Indenture and together will be treated as a single series of Debentures. (c) Authorized Denominations. The denominations in which Debentures shall be issuable is $1,000 principal amount and integral multiples thereof. Section 2.02. Repayment. (a) Scheduled Maturity Date. 11
(i) The principal amount of, and all accrued and unpaid interest on, the Debentures shall be payable in full on March 15, 2037 or, if such day is not a Business Day, the following Business Day (the "SCHEDULED MATURITY DATE"); provided, however, that in the event the Company has delivered an Officers' Certificate to the Trustee pursuant to clause (v) of this Section 2.02(a) in connection with the Scheduled Maturity Date, (x) the principal amount of Debentures payable on the Scheduled Maturity Date, if any, shall be the principal amount set forth in the notice of repayment, if any, accompanying such Officers' Certificate, (y) such principal amount of Debentures shall be repaid on the Scheduled Maturity Date pursuant to Article 5 hereof, and (z) subject to clause (ii) of this Section 2.02(a) the remaining Debentures shall remain outstanding and shall be payable on the immediately succeeding Quarterly Interest Payment Date or such earlier date on which they are redeemed pursuant to Article 4 hereof or become due and payable pursuant to Section 502 of the Indenture. (ii) In the event the Company has delivered an Officers' Certificate to the Trustee pursuant to clause (v) of this Section 2.02(a) in connection with any Quarterly Interest Payment Date, the principal amount of the Debentures repayable on such Quarterly Interest Payment Date shall be the principal amount set forth in the notice of repayment, if any, accompanying such Officers' Certificate, and shall be repaid on such Quarterly Interest Payment Date pursuant to Article 5 hereof, and the remaining Debentures shall remain outstanding and shall be payable on the immediately succeeding Quarterly Interest Payment Date or such earlier date on which they are redeemed pursuant to Article 4 hereof or become due and payable pursuant to Section 502 of the Indenture. (iii) The obligation of the Company to repay the Debentures pursuant to this Section 2.02(a) on any date prior to the Final Maturity Date shall be subject to (x) its obligations under Article Eleven of the Indenture to the holders of Senior Indebtedness and (y) its obligations under Section 2.05 with respect to the payment of deferred interest on the Debentures. (iv) Until the Debentures are paid in full: (A) the Company shall use Commercially Reasonable Efforts, subject to a Market Disruption Event to raise sufficient net proceeds from the issuance of Qualifying Capital Securities during a 180-day period ending on the date, not more than 15 and not less than 10 Business Days prior to the Scheduled Maturity Date, on which the Company delivers the notice required by clause (v) of this Section 2.02(a) and Section 5.01, to permit repayment of the Debentures in full on the Scheduled Maturity Date pursuant to clause (i) of this Section 2.02(a); and 12
(B) if the Company is unable for any reason to raise sufficient proceeds from the issuance of Qualifying Capital Securities to permit repayment in full of the Debentures on the Scheduled Maturity Date or any subsequent Quarterly Interest Payment Date, the Company shall use Commercially Reasonable Efforts, subject to a Market Disruption Event to raise sufficient net proceeds from the issuance of Qualifying Capital Securities during a 90-day period ending on the date, not more than 15 and not less than 10 Business Days prior to the following Quarterly Interest Payment Date, on which the Company delivers the notice required by clause (v) of this Section 2.02(a) and Section 5.01, to permit repayment of the Debentures in full on such following Quarterly Interest Payment Date pursuant to clause (i)(z) of this Section 2.02(a); and (C) the Company shall apply any such net proceeds to the repayment of the Debentures as provided in clause (vi) of this Section 2.02(a). (v) The Company shall, if it has not raised sufficient net proceeds from the issuance of Qualifying Capital Securities pursuant to clause (iv) above in connection with any Repayment Date, deliver an Officers' Certificate to the Trustee no more than 15 and no less than 10 Business Days in advance of such Repayment Date stating the amount of net proceeds, if any, raised pursuant to clause (iv) above in connection with such Repayment Date. The Company shall be excused from its obligation to use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to sell Qualifying Capital Securities pursuant to clause (iv) above if such Officers' Certificate further certifies that: (A) a Market Disruption Event was existing during the 180-day period preceding the date of such Officers' Certificate or, in the case of any Repayment Date after the Scheduled Maturity Date, the 90-day period preceding the date of such Officers' Certificate; and (B) either (a) the Market Disruption Event continued for the entire 180-day period or 90-day period, as the case may be, or (b) the Market Disruption Event continued for only part of the period but the Company was unable after Commercially Reasonable Efforts to raise sufficient net proceeds during the rest of that period to permit repayment of the Debentures in full. Each Officers' Certificate delivered pursuant to this clause (v), unless no principal amount of Debentures is to be repaid on the applicable Repayment Date, shall be accompanied by a notice of repayment pursuant to Section 5.01 setting forth the principal amount of the Debentures to be repaid on such Repayment Date, if any, which amount shall be determined after giving effect to clause (vi) of this Section 2.02(a). (vi) Net proceeds of the issuance of any Qualifying Capital Securities that the Company is permitted to apply to repayment of the 13
Debentures on any Repayment Date will be applied, first, to pay deferred interest (including compounded interest thereon) to the extent of Eligible Proceeds raised pursuant to Section 2.06, second, to pay current interest to the extent not paid from other sources and, third, to repay the outstanding principal amount of Debentures, subject to a minimum principal amount of $5 million to be repaid on any Repayment Date; provided that if the Company is obligated to sell Qualifying Capital Securities and apply the net proceeds to payments of principal of or interest on any Pari Passu Securities, in addition to the Debentures then on any date and for any period the amount of net proceeds received by the Company from those sales and available for such payments shall be applied to the Debentures and those other Pari Passu Securities having the same scheduled maturity date as the Debentures pro rata in accordance with their respective outstanding principal amounts and none of such net proceeds shall be applied to any other securities having a later scheduled maturity date until the principal of and all accrued and unpaid interest on the Debentures has been paid in full. If the Company raises less than $5 million of proceeds from the sale of Qualifying Capital Securities during the relevant 180-day or 90-day period, the Company will not be required to repay any Debentures on the Scheduled Maturity Date or the next Quarterly Interest Payment Date, as applicable, but will use those net proceeds to repay the Debentures on the next Quarterly Interest Payment Date as of which the Company has raised at least $5 million of net proceeds. (vii) The Company shall not amend the Replacement Capital Covenant to impose additional restrictions on the type or amount of Qualifying Capital Securities that the Company may include for purposes of determining when repayment, redemption or purchase of the Debentures is permitted, except with the consent of Holders of a majority by principal amount of the Debentures. Except as aforesaid, the Company may amend or supplement the Replacement Capital Covenant in accordance with its terms and without the consent of the holders of the Debentures. (b) Final Maturity Date. The principal of, and all accrued and unpaid interest on, all outstanding Debentures shall be due and payable on March 15, 2067 or, if such date is not a Business Day, the following Business Day (the "FINAL MATURITY DATE"), regardless of the amount of Qualifying Capital Securities the Company may have issued and sold by that time. Section 2.03 . Form. The Debentures shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto and shall be issued in fully registered definitive form without interest coupons. Principal of and interest on the Debentures issued in definitive form will be payable, the transfer of such Debentures will be registrable and such Debentures will be exchangeable for Debentures bearing identical terms and provisions and notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Debentures and the Indenture may be served at the Corporate Trust Office of the 14
Trustee, and the Company appoints the Trustee as its agent for the foregoing purposes, provided that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to the Holders at such address as shall appear in the Securities Register or by wire transfer in immediately available funds to the bank account number of the Holders specified in writing by the Holders not less than 10 days before the relevant Interest Payment Date and entered in the Securities Register by the Securities Registrar. The Debentures may be presented for registration of transfer or exchange at the Securities Registrar Office. The Debentures are initially solely issuable as Global Securities. Registered Debentures shall be physically transferred to all beneficial owners in definitive form in exchange for their beneficial interests in a Global Security if the Depositary with respect to such Global Securities notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security, as the case may be, and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days of such notice. Section 2.04. Rate of Interest; Interest Payment Date. (a) Rate of Interest. The Debentures shall bear interest from and including March 12, 2007 to but excluding March 15, 2017, at the rate of 6.25% per annum, computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. Commencing on March 15, 2017, the Debentures shall accrue interest at an annual rate of Three-month LIBOR plus 2.215% (the "FLOATING RATE"), payable quarterly in arrears. The amount of Floating Rate interest payable on the Debentures for any Quarterly Interest Period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in the 360-day year. If a scheduled Quarterly Interest Payment Date is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date shall be postponed to the next succeeding day that is a Business Day; provided that if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Payment Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day. Interest will accrue from and including the last date in respect of which interest has been paid or duly provided for to but excluding the Interest Payment Date on which the interest is actually paid. (b) Interest Payment Dates. Subject to the other provisions hereof, interest on the Debentures shall be payable (i) semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, commencing on September 15, 2007, until March 15, 2017 (each such date, a "SEMI-ANNUAL INTEREST PAYMENT DATE"), or if any such day is not a Business Day, the following Business Day (and no interest shall accrue as a result of such postponement) and (ii) thereafter, quarterly in arrears on March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing on June 15, 2017 (each such date, a "QUARTERLY INTEREST PAYMENT DATE" and, together with Semi-Annual Interest Payment Dates, each, an "INTEREST PAYMENT DATE"). (c) Interest will be payable to the persons in whose name the 15
Debentures are registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date next preceding the relevant Interest Payment Date, except that interest payable at maturity shall be paid to the person to whom principal is paid. Section 2.05. Interest Deferral. (a) Option to Defer Interest Payments. (i) The Company shall have the right at any time and from time to time, to defer the payment of interest on the Debentures for one or more consecutive Interest Periods that do not exceed 10 years, provided that no Deferral Period shall extend beyond the Final Maturity Date or the earlier repayment or redemption date of the Debentures. If the Company has paid all deferred interest (including Additional Interest) on the Debentures, the Company shall have the right to elect to begin a new Deferral Period pursuant to this Section 2.05. (ii) At the end of any Deferral Period, the Company shall pay all deferred interest on the Debentures to the Persons in whose names the Debentures are registered in the Securities Register at the close of business on the Regular Record Date with respect to the Interest Payment Date at the end of such Deferral Period. (iii) The Company may elect to pay interest on any Interest Payment Date during any Deferral Period to the extent permitted by Section 2.05(b). (b) Payment of Deferred Interest. The Company will not pay any deferred interest on the Debentures (including Additional Interest thereon) from any source other than Eligible Proceeds prior to the Final Maturity Date, except at any time that the principal amount has been accelerated and such acceleration has not been rescinded or in the case of a Business Combination to the extent described below in this Section 2.05(c). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may pay current interest from any available funds. (c) Business Combination Exception. If the Company is involved in a Business Combination where immediately after its consummation more than 50% of the voting stock of the Person formed by such Business Combination, or the Person that is the surviving entity of such Business Combination, or the Person to whom all or substantially all of the Company's properties and assets are conveyed, transferred or leased in such Business Combination, is owned by the shareholders of the other party to such Business Combination, then Section 2.05(b) and Section 2.06 shall not apply to any Deferral Period that is terminated on the next Interest Payment Date following the date of consummation of such Business Combination. (d) Notice of Deferral. The Company shall give written notice of its election to commence or continue any Deferral Period to the Trustee and the 16
Holders of the Debentures at least one Business Day and not more than sixty Business Days before the next Interest Payment Date. Notice of the Company's election of a Deferral Period shall be given to the Trustee and each holder of Debentures at such holder's address appearing in the Security Register by first-class mail, postage prepaid. Section 2.06. Alternative Payment Mechanism. (a) Obligation to Issue Qualifying APM Securities. During the APM Period, the Company shall, subject to the occurrence of a Market Disruption Event as described under Section 2.06(b) and subject to Section 2.05(b) and Section 2.06(c), issue one or more types of Qualifying APM Securities until the Company has raised an amount of Eligible Proceeds at least equal to the aggregate amount of accrued and unpaid deferred interest on the Debentures, including Additional Interest thereon, and applied such Eligible Proceeds on the next Interest Payment Date to the payment of deferred interest in accordance with Section 2.06, provided that: (i) the foregoing obligations shall not apply to the extent that, with respect to the issuance of Qualifying APM Securities or the payment of interest on the Debentures, the Company is not required to pay interest on the Debentures (and therefore the Company is not required to issue Qualifying APM securities to raise proceeds to pay such interest) at a time when the payment of such interest would violate the terms of any securities issued by the Company or any Subsidiary or the terms of a contract binding on the Company or any Subsidiary; (ii) the foregoing obligations shall not apply to the extent that, the number of shares of the Company's Common Stock issued or issuable upon exercise of Qualifying Warrants prior to the fifth anniversary of the commencement of a Deferral Period, applied during such Deferral Period to pay interest on the Debentures pursuant to this Section 2.06, together with the number of shares of the Company's common stock previously issued or issuable upon exercise of previously issued Qualifying Warrants during such Deferral Period, would exceed an amount equal to 2% of the total number of issued and outstanding shares of the Company's common stock immediately prior to the date of the Company's then most recent publicly available consolidated financial statements immediately prior to the date of such issuance (the "COMMON EQUITY ISSUANCE CAP"); provided that the Common Equity Issuance Cap will cease to apply with respect to a Deferral Period following the fifth anniversary of the commencement of a Deferral Period, at which point the Company must pay any deferred interest regardless of the time at which it was deferred, pursuant to this Section 2.06, subject to a Market Disruption Event; and provided, further, that if the Common Equity Issuance Cap is reached during a Deferral Period and the Company subsequently pays all deferred interest, the Common Equity Issuance Cap will cease to apply with respect 17
to a Deferral Period at the termination of such Deferral Period and will not apply again unless and until the Company starts a new Deferral Period; (iii) the foregoing obligations shall not apply to the extent that the net proceeds of any issuance of Qualifying Preferred Stock and Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock applied to pay interest on the Debentures pursuant to this Section 2.06, together with the net proceeds of all prior issuances of Preferred Stock and any still-outstanding Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock so applied during the current and all prior Deferral Periods, would exceed 25% of the aggregate principal amount of the Debentures issued under the Indenture (the "PREFERRED STOCK ISSUANCE CAP"); (iv) notwithstanding the Common Equity Issuance Cap and the Preferred Stock Issuance Cap, for purposes of paying deferred interest, the Company shall not be permitted, subject to the provisions of paragraph (v) below, to sell Common Stock, Qualifying Warrants, or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock such that the Common Stock to be issued (or which would be issuable upon exercise or conversion thereof) would be in excess of 132 million shares of Common Stock (the "SHARE CAP AMOUNT"); provided that if the issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock are changed into a different number of shares or a different class by reason of any stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or other similar transaction, or if additional Debentures are issued, the Share Cap Amount shall be correspondingly adjusted. If the Company amends the definition of Qualifying APM Securities to eliminate Common Stock, then the number of shares constituting the Share Cap Amount will be increased by 100%. The Share Cap Amount limitation shall apply so long as the Debentures remain outstanding. If the Share Cap Amount has been reached and it is not sufficient to allow the Company to raise sufficient proceeds to pay deferred interest in full, the Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to increase the Share Cap Amount (1) only to the extent that the Company can do so and simultaneously satisfy its future fixed or contingent obligations under other securities and derivative instruments that provide for settlement or payment in shares of the Common Stock or (2) if the Company cannot increase the Share Cap Amount pursuant to the preceding clause (1), by requesting the Company's Board of Directors to adopt a resolution for shareholder vote at the next occurring annual shareholders meeting to increase the number of shares of the Company's authorized common stock for purposes of satisfying the Company's obligations to pay deferred interest. For the avoidance of doubt, (x) once the Company reaches the Common Equity Issuance Cap for a Deferral Period, the Company shall 18
not be required to issue more Common Stock, or if the definition of Qualifying APM Securities has been amended to eliminate Common Stock, more Qualifying Warrants pursuant to this Section 2.06(a), prior to the fifth anniversary of the commencement of a Deferral Period even if the amount referred to in clause (ii) of this Section 2.06 subsequently increases because of a subsequent increase in the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock, and (y) so long as the definition of Qualifying APM Securities has not been amended to eliminate Common Stock, the sale of Qualifying Warrants to pay deferred interest is an option that may be exercised at the Company's sole discretion, subject to the Common Equity Issuance Cap and the Share Cap Amount, and the Company is not obligated to sell Qualifying Warrants or to apply the proceeds of any such sale to pay deferred interest on the Debentures, and no class of investors of the Company's securities, or any other party, may require the Company to issue Qualifying Warrants. (b) Market Disruption Event. Section 2.06(a) shall not apply, with respect to any Interest Payment Date, if the Company shall have provided to the Trustee (which the Trustee will promptly forward upon receipt to each Holder of Debentures) no more than 15 and no less than 10 Business Days prior to such Interest Payment Date an Officers' Certificate stating that (i) a Market Disruption Event was existing after the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date and (ii) the Market Disruption Event continued for the entire period from the Business Day immediately following the preceding Interest Payment Date to the Business Day immediately preceding the date on which such Officers' Certificate is provided. (c) Partial Payment of Deferred Interest. (i) If the Company has raised some but not all Eligible Proceeds necessary to pay all deferred interest, including Additional Interest, on any Interest Payment Date pursuant to this Section 2.06, such Eligible Proceeds shall be allocated to pay accrued and unpaid interest on the applicable Interest Payment Date in chronological order based on the date each payment was first deferred, subject to the Common Equity Issuance Cap, the Preferred Stock Issuance Cap, and the Share Cap Amount, as applicable, and payment on each installment of deferred interest shall be distributed to Holders of the Debentures on a pro rata basis. (ii) If the Company has outstanding Pari Passu Securities under which the Company is obligated to sell securities that are Qualifying APM Securities and apply the net proceeds to the payment of deferred interest or distributions, then on any date and for any period the amount of net proceeds received by the Company from those sales and available for payment of the deferred interest and distributions shall be applied to the Debentures and those other Pari Passu Securities on a pro rata basis up to 19
the Common Equity Issuance Cap or the Preferred Stock Issuance Cap and the Share Cap Amount (or comparable provisions in the instruments governing those other Pari Passu Securities) in proportion to the total amounts that are due on the Debentures and such other Pari Passu Securities. (iii) Qualifying APM Securities Definition Change. The Company shall send written notice to the Trustee (who shall forward such notice to each Holder of the Debentures) in advance of any change in the definition of Qualifying APM Securities to eliminate Common Stock or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock. (d) Qualifying Warrants. If the Company sells Qualifying Warrants to pay deferred interest to satisfy its obligations pursuant to this Section 2.06, the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts, subject to the Common Equity Issuance Cap, to set the terms of such Qualifying Warrants so as to raise sufficient proceeds from their issuance to pay all deferred interest on the Debentures in accordance with this Section 2.06. Section 2.07 . Events of Default. (a) (i) Solely for purposes of the Debentures, Section 501 of the Indenture shall be deleted and replaced by the following: SECTION 501. Events of Default "Event of Default", wherever used herein with respect to the Debentures, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body): (1) default in the payment of interest, including compounded interest, in full on any Debentures for a period of 30 days after the conclusion of a 10-year period following the commencement of any Deferral Period if at such time such Deferral Period has not ended; or (2) default in the payment of principal on the Debentures when due, whether at the Stated Maturity, upon redemption, upon a declaration of acceleration, or otherwise, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 2.02 of this First Supplemental Indenture; or (3) the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or 20
composition of or in respect of the Company under any applicable Federal or State law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days; or (4) the commencement by the Company of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or State law, or the consent by it to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company in furtherance of any such action. When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in clauses (3) and (4) set forth in this Section 5.01, the expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any bankruptcy law. (i) Solely for purposes of the Debentures, Section 502 of the Indenture shall be deleted and replaced by the following: SECTION 502. Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment. If an Event of Default set forth in this Section 501 with respect to the Debentures occurs and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Debentures may declare the principal amount of all of the Debentures and interest accrued thereon, if any, to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by the Holders), and upon any such declaration such amount shall become immediately due and payable. 21
At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to the Debentures has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as provided in Article Five of the Indenture, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Debentures by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if: (1) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay: (A) all Defaulted Interest on all Debentures, (B) the principal of (and premium, if any, on) the Debentures which has become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and interest thereon at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in the Debentures, (C) to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in the Debentures, and (D) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel; and (2) all Events of Default with respect to the Debentures, other than the non-payment of the principal of the Debentures which has become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided under Section 513 of the Indenture. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon. (b) The Trustee shall provide to the Holders of the Debentures such notices as it shall from time to time provide with respect to the Debentures under Section 602 of the Indenture. In addition, the Trustee shall provide to the Holders of the Debentures notice of any Event of Default or event that, with the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default with respect to the Debentures within 90 days after the actual knowledge of a Responsible Officer of the Trustee of such Event of Default or other event. However, except in cases of a default or an Event of Default in payment on the Debentures, the Trustee will be protected in withholding the notice if one of its Responsible Officers determines that withholding of the notice is in the interest of such Holders. 22
(c) The Company's failure to pay interest on the Debentures in accordance with Sections 2.05 and 2.06 of this First Supplemental Indenture shall constitute a default under the Indenture, but shall in no event constitute an Event of Default. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Indenture or this First Supplemental Indenture, the Trustee shall have no obligation to exercise any remedies with respect to any such default unless and except to the extent directed in writing to do so by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Debentures in accordance with and subject to the conditions set forth in Sections 512 and 603(e) of the Indenture. The Trustee may conclusively assume that Sections 2.05 and 2.06 of this First Supplemental Indenture have been complied with unless the Company or the Holders of 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Debentures have given the Trustee written notice to the contrary. (d) For the avoidance of doubt, and without prejudice to any other remedies that may be available to the Trustee or the Holders of the Debentures under the Indenture, no breach by the Company of any covenant or obligation under the Indenture or the terms of the Debentures or the terms of this First Supplemental Indenture, including the Company's obligations under Section 2.02(a)(iv), Section 2.05 or Section 2.06, shall be an Event of Default with respect to the Debentures, other than those specified in this Section 2.07; and except as provided herein and in the Indenture with respect the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, and as provided in Section 2.07(c) above, the Trustee shall be under no duty or obligation to exercise any remedies or otherwise take any action in respect of any other default that may occur under or in respect of this First Supplemental Indenture or the Indenture. Section 2.08. Securities Registrar; Paying Agent; Delegation of Trustee Duties. (a) The Company appoints The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Securities Registrar and Paying Agent with respect to the Debentures. (b) Notwithstanding any provision contained herein, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the Trustee may delegate its duty to provide such notices and to perform such other duties as may be required to be provided or performed by the Trustee under the Indenture, and, to the extent such obligation has been so delegated, the Trustee shall not be responsible for monitoring the compliance of, nor be liable for the default or misconduct of, any such designee. Section 2.09. Limitation on Claims in the Event of Bankruptcy, Insolvency or Receivership. Each Holder, by such Holder's acceptance of the Debentures, agrees that if a Bankruptcy Event of the Company shall occur prior to the redemption or repayment of such Debentures, such Holder shall have no claim for, and thus no right to receive, any deferred interest (including compounded interest thereon) pursuant to Section 2.05 that has not been paid pursuant to Sections 2.05 and 2.06 to the extent the amount of such interest exceeds the sum of (x) interest that relates to the earliest two years of the portion of the Deferral 23
Period for which interest has not been paid and (y) an amount equal to such Holder's pro rata share of the excess, if any, of the Preferred Stock Issuance Cap over the aggregate amount of net proceeds from the sale of Qualifying Preferred Stock and unconverted Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock that we have applied to pay deferred interest pursuant to the alternative payment mechanism set forth in Section 2.06; provided that each Holder is deemed to agree that to the extent the remaining claim exceeds the amount set forth in clause (x), the amount it receives in respect of such excess shall not exceed the amount it would have received had the claim for such excess ranked pari passu with the interests of the holders, if any, of Qualifying Preferred Stock. Section 2.10. Location of Payment. Solely for the purposes of the Debentures, the first paragraph of Section 307 shall be deleted and replaced by the following: SECTION 307. PAYMENT OF INTEREST; INTEREST RIGHTS PRESERVED. Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Debentures will be made at the paying agent office, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided, however, that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Securities Register or (ii) by wire transfer in immediately available funds at such place and to such account as may be designated by the Person entitled thereto as specified in the Securities Register. The office where the Debentures may be presented or surrendered for payment and the office where the Debentures may be surrendered for transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Debentures and the Indenture may be served shall be the paying agent office. Section 2.11. No Sinking Fund. The Debentures shall not be subject to any sinking fund or analogous provisions. Section 2.12. Subordination. The subordination provisions of Article Eleven of the Indenture shall apply to the Debentures. Section 2.13. Defeasance. The provisions of Article Fourteen of the Indenture (Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance) shall apply to the Debentures. ARTICLE 3 COVENANTS Section 3.01 . Dividend and Other Payment Stoppages. So long as any Debentures remain outstanding, if the Company has given notice of its election to 24
defer interest payments on the Debentures but the related Deferral Period has not yet commenced or a Deferral Period is continuing, the Company shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary of the Company to: (a) declare or pay any dividends or distributions on, or redeem, purchase, acquire or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any shares of capital stock of the Company; (b) make any payment of principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on or repay, purchase or redeem any of the Company's debt securities that rank upon the Company's liquidation on a parity with or junior to the Debentures; or (c) make any guarantee payments regarding any guarantee issued by the Company of securities of any Subsidiaries if the guarantee ranks upon the Company's liquidation on a parity with or junior to the Debentures. provided, however, the restrictions in clauses (a), (b) and (c) above do not apply to: (i) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of shares of its capital stock by the Company in connection with (A) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more of its employees, officers, directors, consultants or independent contractors, (B) the satisfaction of the Company's obligations pursuant to any contract entered into in the ordinary course of business prior to the beginning of the applicable Deferral Period, (C) a dividend reinvestment or shareholder purchase plan, or (D) the issuance of the Company's capital stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable for such capital stock, as consideration in an acquisition transaction entered into prior to the applicable Deferral Period; (ii) any exchange, redemption or conversion of any class or series of the Company's capital stock, or the capital stock of one of its Subsidiaries, for any other class or series of its capital stock, or of any class or series of its indebtedness for any class or series of its capital stock; (iii) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of the Company's capital stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such capital stock or the securities being converted or exchanged; (iv) any declaration of a dividend in connection with any shareholder rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any shareholder rights plan, or the redemption or purchase of rights pursuant thereto; (v) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock; (vi) any payment of current or deferred interest on Pari Passu Securities that is made pro rata to the amounts due on such Pari Passu Securities (including the Debentures); provided that such payments are made in accordance with Section 2.06(c) to the extent it applies, and any payments of deferred interest on Pari Passu Securities that, if not made, would cause the Company to breach the terms of the instrument governing such Pari Passu Securities; or (vii) any payment of principal in respect of Pari Passu Securities having the same scheduled maturity date as the Debentures, as required under a provision of such other Pari Passu Securities that is substantially 25
the same as the provisions in Section 2.02, and that is made on a pro rata basis among one or more series of Pari Passu Securities (including the Debentures) having such a provision. Section 3.02 . Additional Limitation on Deferral Over One Year. If any Deferral Period lasts longer than one year, the limitation on the Company's ability to redeem or purchase Qualifying APM Securities or any securities of the Company that on the Company's bankruptcy or liquidation rank pari passu, or junior, as applicable, to such Qualifying APM Securities as set forth in Section 3.01, shall continue until the first anniversary of the date on which all deferred interest on the Debentures has been paid. However, if the Company is involved in a Business Combination where immediately after its consummation more than 50% of the voting stock of the Person that is the surviving entity of such Business Combination, or the Person to whom all or substantially all of the Company's properties and assets are conveyed, transferred or leased in such Business Combination, is owned by the shareholders of the other party to such Business Combination, then the immediately preceding sentence will not apply during the Deferral Period that is terminated on the next Interest Payment Date following the date of consummation of such Business Combination. ARTICLE 4 REDEMPTION OF THE DEBENTURES Section 4.01 . Redemption Price. The Debentures shall be redeemable in accordance with Article Twelve of the Indenture, provided that (a) the Debentures are redeemable in whole or in part at the option of the Company at any time after the date of this First Supplemental Indenture at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Debentures being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption Date or (ii) the applicable Make-Whole Redemption Price, and (b) the Debentures are redeemable in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following the occurrence and during the continuation of a Tax Event or Rating Agency Event, in each case at a Redemption Price equal to (1) in the case of any redemption on or after March 15, 2017, 100% of the principal amount of the Debentures being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption Date or (2) in the case of any redemption prior to March 15, 2017, the greater of (i) 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption Date or (ii) the Make-Whole Redemption Price; provided that if the Debentures are not redeemed in whole, the Company may not affect such redemption unless at least $25 million aggregate principal amount of the Debentures, excluding any Debentures held by the Company or any of its affiliates, remains outstanding after giving effect to such redemption. 26
ARTICLE 5 REPAYMENT OF DEBENTURES Section 5.01. Repayments. The Company shall, not more than 65 nor less than 60 Business Days prior to each Repayment Date (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of the principal amount of Debentures to be repaid on such date pursuant to Section 2.02(a). Section 5.02. Selection of the Debentures to be Repaid. If less than all the Debentures are to be repaid on any Repayment Date (unless the Debentures are issued in the form of a Global Security), the particular Debentures to be repaid shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to such Repayment Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Debentures not previously repaid or called for redemption, by lot or such other method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of a portion of the principal amount of any Debentures, provided that the portion of the principal amount of any Debentures not repaid shall be in an authorized denomination (which shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination). The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Debentures selected for partial repayment and the principal amount thereof to be repaid. For all purposes hereof, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the repayment of Debentures shall relate, in the case of any Debentures repaid or to be repaid only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Debentures which has been or is to be repaid. Section 5.03. Notice of Repayment. Notice of repayment shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not earlier than the 15th day, and not later than the 10th Business Day, prior to the Repayment Date, to each Holder of Debentures to be repaid, at the address of such Holder as it appears in the Security Register. Each notice of repayment shall identify the Debentures to be repaid (including the Debentures' CUSIP number, if a CUSIP number has been assigned to the Debentures) and shall state: (a) the Repayment Date; (b) if less than all Outstanding Debentures are to be repaid, the identification (and, in the case of partial repayment, the respective principal amounts) of the particular Debentures to be repaid; (c) that on the Repayment Date, the principal amount of the Debentures to be repaid will become due and payable upon each such Debentures or portion thereof, and that interest thereon, if any, shall cease to accrue on and after said date; and (d) the place or places where such Debentures are to be surrendered for payment of the principal amount thereof. 27
Notice of repayment shall be given by the Company or, if the Company timely notifies the Trustee, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company and shall be irrevocable. The notice if mailed in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the Holders receive such notice. In any case, a failure to give such notice by mail or any defect in the notice to any Holder of any Debentures designated for repayment as a whole or in part shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the repayment of any other Debentures. Section 5.04. Deposit of Repayment Amount. Prior to 11:00 a.m. New York City time on the Repayment Date specified in the notice of repayment given as provided in Section 5.03, the Company will deposit with the Trustee or with one or more Paying Agents (or if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, the Company will segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003 of the Indenture) an amount of money, in immediately available funds, sufficient to pay the principal amount of, and any accrued interest on, all the Debentures which are to be repaid on that date. Section 5.05. Repayment of Debentures. If any notice of repayment has been given as provided in Section 5.03, the Debentures or portion of the Debentures with respect to which such notice has been given shall become due and payable on the date and at the place or places stated in such notice. On presentation and surrender of such Debentures at a Place of Payment in said notice specified, the said securities or the specified portions thereof shall be paid by the Company at their principal amount, together with accrued interest to but excluding the Repayment Date; provided that, except in the case of a repayment in full of all Outstanding Debentures, installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Repayment Date will be payable to the Holders of such Debentures, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 1001 of the Indenture. Upon presentation of any Debentures repaid in part only, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery to the Holders thereof, at the expense of the Company, a new Debenture, of authorized denominations, in aggregate principal amount equal to the portion of the Debentures not repaid and so presented and having the same Scheduled Maturity Date and other terms. If a Global Security is so surrendered, such new Debentures will also be a new Global Security. If any Debentures required to be repaid shall not be so repaid upon surrender thereof, the principal of such Debentures shall, until paid, bear interest from the applicable Repayment Date at the rate prescribed therefore in the Debentures. 28
ARTICLE 6 ORIGINAL ISSUE OF DEBENTURES Section 6.01 . Calculation of Original Issue Discount. If during any calendar year any original issue discount shall have accrued on the Debentures, the Company shall file with each Paying Agent (including the Trustee if it is a Paying Agent) promptly at the end of each calendar year (a) a written notice specifying the amount of original issue discount (including daily rates and accrual periods) accrued on Outstanding Securities as of the end of such year and (b) such other specific information relating to such original issue discount as may then be relevant under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. The Company would not be required to make actual payments on the Debentures during a Deferral Period. ARTICLE 7 SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES Section 7.01 . Supplemental Indentures Without Consent Of Holders. Solely for purposes of the Debentures, Section 901 of the Indenture shall be deleted and replaced with the following: SECTION 901. Supplemental Indentures Without Consent Of Holders Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may supplement or amend the Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture for any of the following purposes: (1) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Securities; or (2) to add to or modify the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of Debentures or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; provided that no such amendment or modification may add Events of Default or acceleration events with respect to the Debentures; or (3) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Debentures and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 611(b); or (4) to qualify or maintain qualification of this Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act; or 29
(5) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision herein or in any supplemental indenture, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture, provided such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Debentures in any material respect; or (6) to make any changes to the Indenture or this First Supplemental indenture in order to conform the Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture to the final prospectus supplement provided to investors in connection with the offering of the Debentures. ARTICLE 8 MISCELLANEOUS Section 8.01. Effectiveness. This First Supplemental Indenture will become effective upon its execution and delivery. Section 8.02. Successors and Assigns. All covenants and agreements in the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not. Section 8.03. Effect of Recitals. The recitals contained herein and in the Debentures, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent assumes any responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this First Supplemental Indenture or of the Debentures. Neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent shall be accountable for the use or application by the Company of the Debentures or the proceeds thereof. Section 8.04. Ratification of Indenture. The Indenture as supplemented by this First Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this First Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided. Section 8.05. Governing Law. This First Supplemental Indenture and the Debentures shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. Section 8.06. Jury Trial Waiver. EACH PARTY HERETO, AND EACH HOLDER OF ANY Debentures BY ACCEPTANCE THEREOF, HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS INDENTURE. 30
Section 8.07. Severability. If any provision of the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, shall be held or deemed to be or shall, in fact, be illegal, inoperative or unenforceable, the same shall not affect any other provision or provisions herein contained or render the same invalid, inoperative or unenforceable to any extent whatever. * * * This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. 31
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written. THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES, INC. By: /s/ Douglas K. Russell ---------------------------------- Name: Douglas K. Russell Title: Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Treasurer By: /s/ Bruce A. Backberg ---------------------------------- Name: Bruce A. Backberg Title: Senior Vice President and Corporate Secretary THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A. as Trustee By: /s/ Peter M. Murphy ---------------------------------- Name: Peter M. Murphy Title: Vice President
EXHIBIT A [FORM OF DEBENTURES]

Exhibit 4.2 FORM OF DEBENTURES The Debentures are to be substantially in the following form and shall bear the following legend required by Section 204 of the Indenture: THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE. No. - Principal Amount: $- Issue Date: - THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES, INC. 6.25% FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES DUE 2067 THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES, INC., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of Minnesota (hereinafter called the "COMPANY", which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or registered assigns, the principal sum of - DOLLARS ($-) as may be revised from time to time on Schedule I hereto and all accrued and unpaid interest thereof on March 15, 2037, or if such day is not a Business Day, the following Business Day (the "SCHEDULED MATURITY DATE") or any subsequent Interest Payment Date (as hereafter defined) to the extent set forth in the First Supplemental Indenture. If that amount is not paid in full on the Scheduled Maturity Date or any subsequent Interest Payment Date, the remaining amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest, will be due and payable on the Final Maturity Date. The Final Maturity Date will be March 15, 2067, or if such day is not a Business Day, the following Business Day. The Company further promises to pay interest on said principal sum from and including March 12, 2007, or from and including the most recent interest payment date on which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually (subject to deferral as set forth herein) in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, commencing September 15, 2007, at the rate of 6.25 % per annum (computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months) to
but excluding March 15, 2017, and thereafter to pay interest on said outstanding principal sum quarterly in arrears on March 15, June 15, September 15, and December 15 of each year (each such date and, together with such March 15 and September 15 of each year, an "INTEREST PAYMENT DATE"), at a floating annual rate equal to Three-Month LIBOR (as defined in the First Supplemental Indenture) plus 2.215% (computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed), until the principal hereof shall have become due and payable, plus Additional Interest, if any, until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for or made available for payment. Accrued interest that is not paid on the applicable Interest Payment Date, including interest deferred pursuant to Section 2.05 of the First Supplemental Indenture, will bear Additional Interest, to the extent permitted by law, at the interest rate in effect from time to time, from the relevant Interest Payment Date, compounded on each subsequent Interest Payment Date. In the event that any Semi-Annual Interest Payment Date on which interest is payable on this Security is not a Business Day, then a payment of the interest payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and, in the case of payments on or prior to March 15, 2017, without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay) with the same force and effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable. In the event that any Quarterly Interest Payment Date on which interest is payable on this Security is not a Business Day, then a payment of the interest payable on such date shall be postponed to the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, provided that if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Payment Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day, and interest will accrue to but excluding the date that interest is actually paid. A "Business Day" shall mean any day other than (i) a Saturday or Sunday, (ii) a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or required by law or executive order to remain closed or (iii) a day on which the corporate trust office of the Trustee, is closed for business. The interest installment so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest installment, which shall be March 1 or September 1, as the case may be, immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date until March 15, 2017 (whether or not a Business Day), and the 15th day preceding the Relevant Interest Payment Date after March 15, 2017. Any such interest installment not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more
fully provided in said Indenture. So long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Company shall have the right at any time or from time to time during the term of this Security to defer payment of interest on this Security for one or more consecutive interest payment periods (each a "DEFERRAL PERIOD") that do not exceed 10 years, during which Deferral Periods the Company shall have the right, subject to Sections 2.05 and 2.06 of the First Supplemental Indenture, to make partial payments of interest on any Interest Payment Date, and at the end of which the Company shall pay all interest then accrued and unpaid (together with Additional Interest thereon to the extent permitted by applicable law); provided, however, that no Deferral Period shall extend beyond the Final Maturity Date or the earlier repayment or redemption in full of the Securities. Upon the termination of any Deferral Period and upon the payment of all deferred interest then due, the Company may elect to begin a new Deferral Period, subject to the above requirements. Deferred interest on the Security will bear interest at the then applicable interest rate, compounded on each Interest Payment Date, subject to applicable law. No interest shall be due and payable during a Deferral Period except at the end thereof. Additional limitations may apply, pursuant to Section 3.02 of the First Supplemental Indenture, if any Deferral Period lasts longer than one year. So long as any Securities remain outstanding, if the Company has given notice of its election to defer interest payments on the Securities but the related Deferral Period has not yet commenced or a Deferral Period is continuing, the Company shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary of the Company to, (i) declare or pay any dividends or distributions, or redeem, purchase, acquire or make a liquidation payment with respect to any shares of the Company's capital stock, (ii) make any payment of principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on or repay, purchase or redeem any debt securities of the Company that rank upon the Company's liquidation on a parity with this Security (including this Security, the "PARI PASSU SECURITIES" ), or junior in interest to this Security or (iii) make any payments under any guarantee issued by the Company of the securities of any Subsidiary if the guarantee ranks upon liquidation on a parity with or junior to this Security (other than (a) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of shares of the Company's capital stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more of its employees, officers, directors, consultants or independent contractors, (2) the satisfaction of the Company's obligations pursuant to any contract entered into in the ordinary course of business prior to the beginning of the applicable Deferral Period, (3) a dividend reinvestment or shareholder purchase plan, or (4) the issuance of the Company's capital stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable for such capital stock, as consideration in an acquisition transaction entered into prior to the applicable Deferral Period, (b) any exchange, redemption or conversion of any class or series of the Company's capital stock, or the capital stock of one of its Subsidiaries, for any other class or series of its capital stock, or of any class or series of its indebtedness for any class or series of its capital stock,
(c) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of the Company's capital stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such capital stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (d) any declaration of a dividend in connection with any shareholder rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any shareholder rights plan, or the redemption or purchase of rights pursuant thereto, (e) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock, (f) any payment of current or deferred interest on Pari Passu Securities that is made pro rata to the amounts due on such Pari Passu Securities (including the this Security); provided that such payments are made in accordance with Section 2.06(c) of the First Supplemental Indenture to the extent it applies, and any payments of deferred interest on Pari Passu Securities that, if not made, would cause the Company to breach the terms of the instrument governing such Pari Passu Securities; or (g) any payment of principal in respect of Pari Passu Securities having the same scheduled maturity date as this Security, as required under a provision of such other Pari Passu Securities that is substantially the same as the provisions in Section 2.02 of the First Supplemental Indenture, and that is made on a pro rata basis among one or more series of Pari Passu Securities (including this Security) having such a provision. In addition, if any Deferral Period lasts longer than one year, the restrictions on the Company's ability to redeem or purchase any of its Qualifying APM Securities or any of its securities that on its bankruptcy or liquidation rank pari passu or junior to such Qualifying APM Securities will continue until the first anniversary of the date on which all deferred interest on this Security has been paid. The Company shall give written notice of its election to begin or extend any Deferral Period, to the Trustee and the Holders of this Security at least one Business Day and not more than sixty Business Days before the next Interest Payment Date. Notice of the Company's election of a Deferral Period shall be given to the Trustee and each holder of this Security at such holder's address appearing in the Security Register by first-class mail, postage prepaid. Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the United States, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided, however, that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Securities Register or (ii) by wire transfer in immediately available funds at the bank account number as may be designated by the Person entitled thereto as specified in the Securities Register in writing not less than ten days before the relevant Interest Payment Date. The indebtedness evidenced by this Security is, to the extent provided in
the Indenture, subordinate and junior in right of payment to the prior payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness, and this Security is issued subject to the provisions of the Indenture with respect thereto. Each Holder of this Security, by accepting the same, (a) agrees to and shall be bound by such provisions, (b) authorizes and directs the Trustee on his behalf to take such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination so provided and (c) appoints the Trustee his attorney-in-fact for any and all such purposes. Each Holder hereof, by his acceptance hereof, waives all notice of the acceptance of the subordination provisions contained herein and in the Indenture by each holder of Senior Indebtedness, whether now outstanding or hereafter incurred, and waives reliance by each such holder upon said provisions. The Company and, by acceptance of this Security or a beneficial interest in this Security, each Holder hereof and any person acquiring a beneficial interest herein, agree that for United States federal, state and local tax purposes it is intended that this Security constitute indebtedness. Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
In Witness Whereof, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed. THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES, INC. By: ------------------------ Name: Title: TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A. By: ------------------------- Name: Title: Authorized Signatory Dated:
(FORM OF REVERSE OF DEBENTURES) This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "DEBENTURES"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under the Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of March 12, 2007 (herein called the "BASE INDENTURE"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "TRUSTEE"), as amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 12, 2007, between the Company and the Trustee (the "FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE", and together with the Base Indenture, the "INDENTURE"), to which Indenture and all other indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders of the Debentures, and of the terms upon which the Debentures are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. By the terms of the Indenture, the Securities are issuable in series that may vary as to amount, date of maturity, rate of interest, rank and in any other respect provided in the Indenture. All terms used in this Security that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. The Debentures shall be redeemable at the option of the Company in accordance with the terms of the Indenture. In particular, the Debentures are redeemable (i) in whole or in part at the option of the Company at any time after the date hereof and (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following the occurrence and during the continuation of a Tax Event or Rating Agency Event, in each case at a Redemption Price equal to (1) in the case of any redemption on or after March 15, 2017, 100% of the principal amount of the Debentures being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date or (2) in the case of any redemption prior to March 15, 2017, the greater of (i) 100% of its principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, or (ii) the Make-Whole Redemption Price; provided that if the Debentures are not redeemed in whole, the Company may not affect such redemption unless at least $25 million aggregate principal amount of the Debentures, excluding any Debentures held by the Company or any of its affiliates, remains outstanding after giving effect to such redemption. No sinking fund is provided for the Debentures. The Indenture contains provisions for satisfaction and discharge of the entire indebtedness of this Security upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture. The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the Company and the Trustee at any time to enter into a supplemental indenture or indentures for the purpose of modifying in any manner the rights and obligations
of the Company and of the Holders of the Securities, with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities to be affected by such supplemental indenture. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security. As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, if an Event of Default with respect to the Securities at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then and in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities may declare the entire principal amount and all accrued but unpaid interest of all the Securities to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), provided that the payment of principal and interest (including any Additional Interest) on such Securities shall remain subordinated to the extent provided in Article Eleven of the Indenture. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Securities Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company maintained under Section 1002 of the Indenture duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Securities Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith. Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
The Securities are issuable only in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same. The Company and, by its acceptance of this Security or a beneficial interest therein, the Holder of, and any Person that acquires a beneficial interest in, this Security agree to treat for United States Federal income tax purposes (i) the Securities as indebtedness of the Company, and (ii) the stated interest on the Securities as ordinary interest income that is includible in the Holder's or beneficial owner's gross income at the time the interest is paid or accrued in accordance with the Holder's or beneficial owner's regular method of tax accounting, and otherwise to treat the Securities as described in the Prospectus. THE INDENTURE AND THIS SECURITY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. This is one of the Securities referred to in the within mentioned Indenture.
ASSIGNMENT FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned assigns and transfers this Security to: _______________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________________________________________________________ (Insert assignee's social security or tax identification number) _______________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________________________________________________________ (Insert address and zip code of assignee) agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Securities Registrar. The agent may substitute another to act for him or her. Dated: Signature: Signature Guarantee: (Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security) Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Securities Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Securities Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
SCHEDULE I SCHEDULE OF PRINCIPAL AMOUNT REDUCTIONS Principal amount of Debentures outstanding represented by this Security as of March 12, 2007: $1,000,000,000 Thereafter, the following decreases have been made:

Exhibit 8.1 [Letterhead of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP] March 12, 2007 Re: Issuance and Sale of 6.25% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2067, The Travelers Companies, Inc. The Travelers Companies, Inc. 385 Washington Street St. Paul, Minnesota 55102 Ladies and Gentlemen: We have acted as special tax counsel to The Travelers Companies, Inc., a Minnesota corporation (the "Corporation"), in connection with the preparation and filing by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") of Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 ("Post-Effective Amendment No. 1") to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-130323), under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"), as it became effective under the Act, and with respect to the issuance and sale of the Corporation's 6.25% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2067 (the "Debentures") pursuant to the Junior Subordinated Indenture (the "Junior Subordinated Indenture"), dated as of March 12, 2007, between the Corporation and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture (the "First Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Junior Subordinated Indenture, the "Indenture"), dated as of March 12, 2007, between the Corporation and the Trustee. The Debentures will be offered for sale to investors pursuant to the Corporation's
-2- prospectus dated March 5, 2007 as supplemented by the prospectus supplement dated March 5, 2007 (the "Prospectus"), filed by the Corporation pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the rules and regulations of the Commission under the Act. In delivering this opinion letter, we have reviewed and relied upon: (i) the Prospectus; (ii) the Indenture; and (iii) a form of the Debentures; and have made such other investigations as we have deemed necessary or appropriate as a basis for the opinions set forth herein. In rendering the opinions described below, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity of natural persons, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as duplicates or certified or conformed copies, and the authenticity of the originals of such latter documents. We also have assumed that the transactions related to the issuance of the Debentures will be consummated in accordance with the terms of the documents and forms of documents described herein. Based on the foregoing and subject to the qualifications, assumptions and limitations stated herein and in the Prospectus, we are of the opinion that, (i) although the matter is not free from doubt, the Debentures will be treated as debt for federal income tax purposes, and (ii) the statements made in the Prospectus under the caption, "Certain United States Federal Income and Estate Tax Consequences" insofar as they purport to constitute summaries of matters of United States federal tax law and regulations or legal conclusions with respect thereto, constitute accurate summaries of the matters described therein in all material respects.
-3- We express no opinions with respect to the transactions referred to herein or in the Prospectus other than as expressly set forth herein. Moreover, we note that there is no authority directly on point dealing with securities such as the Debentures or transactions of the type described herein and that our opinions are not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or the courts, either of which could take a contrary position. Nevertheless, we believe that the opinions expressed herein, if challenged, would be sustained by a court with jurisdiction in a properly presented case. We do not express any opinion herein concerning any law other than the federal law of the United States. We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion letter as an exhibit to the Corporation's report on Form 8-K (which is deemed incorporated by reference into the Prospectus constituting part of Post-Effective Amendment No. 1) and to the use of our name under the captions "Certain United States Federal Income and Estate Tax Consequences," "Validity of Securities," and "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus. Very truly yours, /s/ SIMPSON THACHER & BARTLETT LLP ---------------------------------- SIMPSON THACHER & BARTLETT LLP

Exhibit 99.1 REPLACEMENT CAPITAL COVENANT, dated as of March 12, 2007 (this "REPLACEMENT CAPITAL COVENANT"), by The Travelers Companies, Inc., a Minnesota corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the "CORPORATION"), in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder (as defined below). RECITALS A. On the date hereof, the Corporation is issuing $1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its Junior Subordinated Debentures (including any such junior subordinated debentures issued after the date hereof that may be consolidated and form a single series with such Junior Subordinated Debentures issued on the date hereof, the "DEBENTURES"). B. This Replacement Capital Covenant is the "Replacement Capital Covenant" referred to in the Prospectus Supplement, dated March 5, 2007, relating to the Debentures (together with the Prospectus, dated March 5, 2007 attached thereto, the "PROSPECTUS"). C. The Corporation is entering into and disclosing the content of this Replacement Capital Covenant in the manner provided below with the intent that the covenants provided for in this Replacement Capital Covenant be enforceable by each Covered Debtholder and that the Corporation be estopped from disregarding the covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. D. The Corporation acknowledges that reliance by each Covered Debtholder upon the covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant is reasonable and foreseeable by the Corporation and that, were the Corporation to disregard its covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant, each Covered Debtholder would have sustained an injury as a result of its reliance on such covenants. NOW, THEREFORE, the Corporation hereby covenants and agrees as follows in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder. Section 1. Definitions. Capitalized terms used in this Replacement Capital Covenant (including the Recitals) have the respective meanings set forth in Schedule I hereto. Section 2. Limitations on Repayment, Redemption and Purchase of Debentures. The Corporation hereby promises and covenants to and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder that the Corporation shall not repay, redeem or purchase (for the avoidance of doubt, any reference in this Replacement Capital Covenant to any repayment of the Corporation's securities will be deemed to include a reference to defeasance of the Corporation's obligations under the securities), and will cause its Subsidiaries not to, repay, redeem or purchase, as applicable, all or any part of the Debentures before March 15, 2047 except to the extent that the principal amount repaid or the applicable redemption or purchase price does not exceed the sum of the following amounts raised through the issuance of Replacement Capital Securities: (a) the Applicable Percentage of (i) the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds received by the Corporation and its Subsidiaries from the sale of Common Stock and Qualifying Warrants (each as defined below) to Persons other than the Corporation and its Subsidiaries and (ii) the Market Value of any Common Stock that the Corporation and its Subsidiaries have issued 1
to persons other than the Corporation and its Subsidiaries in connection with the conversion of any convertible or exchangeable securities, other than securities for which the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries has received equity credit from any NRSRO (as defined below), in each case since the most recent Measurement Date (without double counting proceeds received in any prior Measurement Period); plus (b) the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds received by the Corporation and its Subsidiaries since the most recent Measurement Date (without double counting proceeds received in any prior Measurement Period) from the sale of Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity, Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity and Qualifying Capital Securities to Persons other than the Corporation and its Subsidiaries. Section 3. Covered Debt. (a) The Corporation represents and warrants that the Initial Covered Debt is Eligible Debt. (b) On or during the 30-day period immediately preceding any Redesignation Date with respect to the Covered Debt then in effect, the Corporation shall identify the series of Eligible Debt that will become the Covered Debt on and after such Redesignation Date in accordance with the following procedures: (i) the Corporation shall identify each series of its then outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt; (ii) if only one series of the Corporation's then outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed is Eligible Debt, such series shall become the Covered Debt commencing on the related Redesignation Date; (iii) if the Corporation has more than one outstanding series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt, then the Corporation shall identify the series that has the latest stated final maturity date as of the date the Corporation is applying the procedures in this Section 3(b) and such series shall become the Covered Debt on the related Redesignation Date; (iv) the series of outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is determined to be Covered Debt pursuant to this Section 3(b) shall be the Covered Debt for purposes of this Replacement Capital Covenant for the period commencing on the related Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the Redesignation Date as of which a new series of outstanding long-term indebtedness is next determined to be the Covered Debt pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Section 3(b); and (v) in connection with such identification of a new series of Covered Debt, the Corporation shall, as provided for in Section 3(c), give a notice and file with the Commission a current report on Form 8-K under the Exchange Act including or incorporating by reference this Replacement Capital Covenant as an exhibit within the time frame provided for in such section. (c) Notice. In order to give effect to the intent of the Corporation described in Recital C, the Corporation covenants that (i) simultaneously with the execution of this Replacement 2
Capital Covenant or as soon as practicable after the date hereof, it shall (A) give notice to the Holders of the Initial Covered Debt, in the manner provided in the indenture relating to the Initial Covered Debt, of this Replacement Capital Covenant and the rights granted to such Holders hereunder and (B) file a copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant with the Commission as an exhibit to a current report on Form 8-K under the Exchange Act; (ii) so long as the Corporation is a reporting company under the Exchange Act, the Corporation will include in each annual report filed with the Commission on Form 10-K under the Exchange Act a description of the covenant set forth in Section 2 and identify the series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt as of the date such annual report on Form 10-K is filed with the Commission; (iii) if a series of the Corporation's long-term indebtedness for money borrowed (A) becomes Covered Debt or (B) ceases to be Covered Debt pursuant to the procedures set forth in Section 3(b), the Corporation shall give notice of such occurrence within 30 days to the holders of such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed in the manner provided for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument under which such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed was issued and report such change in a current report on Form 8-K under the Exchange Act including or incorporating by reference this Replacement Capital Covenant, and in the Corporation's next quarterly report on Form 10-Q or annual report on Form 10-K, as applicable; (iv) if, and only if, the Corporation ceases to be a reporting company under the Exchange Act, the Corporation shall post on its website the information otherwise required to be included in Exchange Act filings pursuant to clauses (ii) and (iii) of this Section 3(c); and (v) promptly upon request by any Holder of Covered Debt, the Corporation shall provide such Holder with a conformed copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant. Section 4. Termination, Amendment and Waiver (a) The obligations of the Corporation pursuant to this Replacement Capital Covenant shall remain in full force and effect until the earliest (the "TERMINATION DATE") to occur of (i) March 15, 2047, or, if earlier, the date on which the Debentures are otherwise repaid, redeemed or purchased in full (in compliance with the terms of this Replacement Capital Covenant), (ii) the date, if any, on which the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then-effective series of Covered Debt consent or agree in writing to the termination of this Replacement Capital Covenant and the obligations of the Corporation hereunder, (iii) the date on which the Corporation ceases to have any series of outstanding Eligible Senior Debt or Eligible Subordinated Debt (in each case, without giving effect to the rating requirement in clause (b) of the definition of each such term) and (iv) the date on which an event of default under the Indenture resulting in an acceleration of the Debentures occurs. From and after the Termination Date, the obligations of the Corporation pursuant to this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be of no further force and effect. (b) This Replacement Capital Covenant may be amended or supplemented from time to time by a written instrument signed by the Corporation with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the then-effective series of Covered Debt, provided that this Replacement Capital Covenant may be amended or supplemented from time to time by a written instrument signed only by the Corporation (and without the consent of any Holder of the then-effective series of Covered Debt) if (i) the effect of such amendment or supplement is solely to impose additional restrictions on the types of securities qualifying as Replacement Capital Securities, and an officer of the Corporation has delivered to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt in the manner provided for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument with respect to such Covered Debt a written certificate to that effect, (ii) such 3
amendment or supplement is not adverse to the Covered Debtholders and an officer of the Corporation has delivered to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt in the manner provided for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument with respect to such Covered Debt a written certificate stating that, in his or her determination, such amendment or supplement is not adverse to such Covered Debtholders, or (iii) such amendment or supplement eliminates Common Stock, Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity, Qualifying Warrants and/or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock as Replacement Capital Securities if, in the case of this clause (iii), after the date of this Replacement Capital Covenant, an accounting standard or interpretive guidance of an existing accounting standard issued by an organization or regulator that has responsibility for establishing or interpreting accounting standards in the United States becomes effective such that there is more than an insubstantial risk that failure to eliminate Common Stock, Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity, Qualifying Warrants and/or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock as Replacement Capital Securities would result in a reduction in the Corporation's earnings per share as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. (c) For purposes of Sections 4(a) and 4(b), the Holders whose consent or agreement is required to terminate, amend or supplement the obligations of the Corporation under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt as of a record date established by the Corporation that is not more than 30 days prior to the date on which the Corporation proposes that such termination, amendment or supplement becomes effective. Section 5. Miscellaneous. (a) THIS REPLACEMENT CAPITAL COVENANT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. (b) This Replacement Capital Covenant shall be binding upon the Corporation and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the Covered Debtholders as they exist from time to time (it being understood and agreed by the Corporation that any Person who is a Covered Debtholder at the time such Person acquires, holds or sells Covered Debt shall retain its status as a Covered Debtholder for so long as the series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money owned by such Person is Covered Debt and, if such Person initiates a claim or proceeding to enforce its rights under this Replacement Capital Covenant after the Corporation has violated its covenants in Section 2 and before the series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed held by such Person is no longer Covered Debt, such Person's rights under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall not terminate prior to a Termination Date solely by reason of such series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed no longer being Covered Debt). (c) All demands, notices, requests and other communications to the Corporation under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be deemed to have been duly given and made if in writing and (i) if served by personal delivery upon the Corporation, on the day so delivered (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), (ii) if delivered by registered post or certified mail, return receipt requested, or sent to the Corporation by a national or international courier service, on the date of receipt by the Corporation (or, if such date of receipt is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), or (iii) if sent by telecopier, on the day telecopied, or if not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day, provided that the telecopy is promptly confirmed by telephone confirmation thereof, and in each case to the 4
Corporation at the address set forth below, or at such other address as the Corporation may thereafter notify to Covered Debtholders or post on its website as the address for notices under this Replacement Capital Covenant: The Travelers Companies, Inc. 385 Washington Street St. Paul, Minnesota 55102 Attention: General Counsel 5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Replacement Capital Covenant to be executed by its duly authorized officer, as of the day and year first above written. THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES, INC. By: /s/ Douglas K. Russell ------------------------- Name: Douglas K. Russell Title: Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Treasurer [Signature page to the Replacement Capital Covenant]
Exhibit 99.1 Schedule I DEFINITIONS "ALTERNATIVE PAYMENT MECHANISM" means, with respect to any securities or combination of securities (together in this definition, "SUCH SECURITIES"), provisions in the related transaction documents requiring the Corporation to issue (or use commercially reasonable efforts to issue) one or more types of APM Qualifying Securities raising eligible proceeds at least equal to the deferred Distributions on such securities and apply the proceeds to pay unpaid Distributions on such securities, commencing on the earlier of (x) the first Distribution Date after commencement of a deferral period on which the Corporation pays current Distributions on such securities and (y) the fifth anniversary of the commencement of such deferral period, and that: (a) define "eligible proceeds" to mean, for purposes of such Alternative Payment Mechanism, the net proceeds (after underwriters' or placement agents' fees, commissions or discounts and other expenses relating to the issuance or sale of the relevant securities, where applicable, and including the fair market value of property received by the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries as consideration for such securities) that the Corporation has received during the 180 days prior to the related Distribution Date from the issuance of APM Qualifying Securities, up to the Preferred Cap (as defined in paragraph (f) below) in the case of APM Qualifying Securities that are Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock; (b) permit the Corporation to pay current Distributions on any Distribution Date out of any source of funds but (x) require the Corporation to pay deferred Distributions only out of eligible proceeds and (y) prohibit the Corporation from paying deferred Distributions out of any source of funds other than eligible proceeds; (c) if deferral of Distributions continues for more than one year (or such shorter period as provided for in the terms of such securities), require the Corporation not to repay, redeem or purchase any APM Qualifying Securities of the Corporation or any securities of the Corporation that on a bankruptcy or liquidation of the Corporation rank pari passu or junior to such APM Qualifying Securities until at least one year after all deferred Distributions have been paid; (d) may include a provision that, notwithstanding the Common Cap (as defined in paragraph (f) below) and the Preferred Cap, for purposes of paying deferred Distributions, limits the ability of the Corporation to sell shares of Common Stock, Qualifying Warrants, or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock above an aggregate cap specified in the transaction documents (a "SHARE CAP"), subject to the Corporation's agreement to use commercially reasonable efforts to increase the Share Cap amount and (i) only to the extent that it can do so and simultaneously satisfy its future fixed or contingent obligations under other 7
securities and derivative instruments that provide for settlement or payment in shares of Common Stock or (ii) if the Corporation cannot increase the Share Cap amount as contemplated in the preceding clause, by requesting its Board of Directors to adopt a resolution for shareholder vote at the next occurring annual shareholders meeting to increase the number of shares of the Corporation's authorized Common Stock for purposes of satisfying the Corporation's obligations to pay deferred Distributions, provided that such Share Cap shall not represent a lower proportion of the Corporation's outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the date of issuance of such APM Qualifying Securities than the Share Cap Amount applicable to the Debentures represents as a proportion of the Corporation's outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the date of the Prospectus Supplement; (e) permit the Corporation, at its option, to provide that if the Corporation is involved in a merger, consolidation, amalgamation or conveyance, transfer or lease of assets substantially as an entirety to any other person (a "BUSINESS COMBINATION") where immediately after the consummation of the business combination more than 50% of the voting stock of the surviving entity of the business combination, or the person to whom all or substantially all of the Corporation's assets are conveyed, transferred or leased, is owned by the shareholders of the other party to the business combination, then clauses (a), (b) and (c) above will not apply to any deferral period that is terminated on the next interest payment date following the date of consummation of the business combination; and (f) limit the obligation of the Corporation to issue (or use commercially reasonable efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities up to: (i) in the case of APM Qualifying Securities that are Common Stock or Qualifying Warrants, an aggregate amount of all Common Stock issued or issuable upon the exercise of such Qualifying Warrants pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism with respect to deferred Distributions during the first five years of any deferral period equal to 2% of the total number of issued and outstanding shares of the Common Stock of the Company as of the date of the Corporation's most recently publicly available consolidated financial statements as of the date of such issuance (the "COMMON CAP"), provided (and it being understood) that the Common Cap shall cease to apply to such deferral period by a date (as specified in the related transaction documents) which shall be not later than the fifth anniversary of the commencement of such deferral period; and (ii) in the case of APM Qualifying Securities that are Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, an amount from the issuance of such Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock and then still- 8
outstanding Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock pursuant to the related Alternative Payment Mechanism (including, in the case of Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, at any point in time from all prior issuances thereof pursuant to such Alternative Payment Mechanism) equal to 25% of the initial principal or stated amount of the securities that are the subject of the related Alternative Payment Mechanism (the "PREFERRED CAP"); (iii) provided (and it being understood) that: (A) the Corporation shall not be obligated to issue (or use commercially reasonable efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities for so long as a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing; (B) if, due to a Market Disruption Event or otherwise, the Corporation is able to raise and apply some, but not all, of the eligible proceeds necessary to pay all deferred Distributions on any Distribution Date, the Corporation will apply any available eligible proceeds to pay accrued and unpaid Distributions on the applicable Distribution Date in chronological order subject to the Common Cap, Preferred Cap and Share Cap (if any), as applicable; and if the Corporation has outstanding more than one class or series of securities under which it is obligated to sell a type of APM Qualifying Securities and apply some part of the proceeds to the payment of deferred Distributions, then on any date and for any period the amount of net proceeds received by the Corporation from those sales and available for payment of deferred Distributions on such securities shall be applied to such securities on a pro rata basis in proportion to the total amounts that are due on such securities. "APM QUALIFYING SECURITIES" means one or more of the following: (a) Common Stock; (b) Qualifying Warrants; (c) Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock; and (d) Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock. "APPLICABLE PERCENTAGE" means 1 divided by (i) 75% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase prior to March 15, 2017, (ii) 50% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase on or after March 15, 2017 and prior to 9
March 15, 2037 and (iii) 25% with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase on or after March 15, 2037. "BUSINESS DAY" means each day other than (a) a Saturday or Sunday or (b) a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or required by law or executive order to remain closed, and, on or after March 15, 2017, a day that is not a London business day. A "LONDON BUSINESS DAY" is any day on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market. "COMMISSION" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. "COMMON STOCK" means common stock of the Corporation (including treasury shares of common stock), common stock issued pursuant to any dividend reinvestment plan or employee benefit plans of the Corporation, a security of the Corporation's ranking upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation junior to the Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock and pari passu with the common stock of the Corporation, that tracks the performance of, or relates to the results of, a business, unit or division of the Corporation, and any securities issued in exchange therefor in connection with a merger, consolidation, binding share exchange, business combination, recapitalization or other similar event. "CORPORATION" has the meaning specified in the introduction to this instrument. "COVERED DEBT" means (a) at the date of this Replacement Capital Covenant and continuing to but not including the first Redesignation Date, the Initial Covered Debt and (b) thereafter, commencing with each Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the next succeeding Redesignation Date, the Eligible Debt identified pursuant to Section 3(b) as the Covered Debt for such period. "COVERED DEBTHOLDER" means each Person (whether a Holder or a beneficial owner holding through a participant in a clearing agency) that buys, holds or sells long-term indebtedness for money borrowed of the Corporation during the period that such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed is Covered Debt. "DEBENTURES" has the meaning specified in Recital A. "DEBT EXCHANGEABLE FOR COMMON EQUITY" means a security or combination of securities (together in this definition, "such securities") that: (a) gives the holder a beneficial interest in (i) debt securities of the Corporation that are not redeemable prior to settlement of the stock purchase 10
contract referred to in subclause (ii) hereof and (ii) a fractional interest in a stock purchase contract for a share of common stock of the Corporation that will be settled in three years or less, with the number of shares of common stock purchasable pursuant to such stock purchase contract to be within a range established at the time of issuance of such debt securities; (b) provides that the investors directly or indirectly grant to the Corporation a security interest in such debt securities and their proceeds (including any substitute collateral permitted under the transaction documents) to secure the investors' direct or indirect obligation to purchase common stock of the Corporation pursuant to such stock purchase contracts; (c) includes a remarketing feature pursuant to which the debt securities of the Corporation are remarketed to new investors commencing not later than the settlement date of the purchase contract; (d) provides for the proceeds raised in the remarketing to be used to purchase common stock of the Corporation under the stock purchase contracts and, if there has not been a successful remarketing by the settlement date of the purchase contract, provides that the stock purchase contracts will be settled by the Corporation acquiring its debt securities or other collateral directly or indirectly pledged by investors in the Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity. "DEBT EXCHANGEABLE FOR PREFERRED EQUITY" means a security or combination of securities (together in this definition, "such securities") that: (a) gives the holder a beneficial interest in (i) subordinated debt securities of the Corporation that include a provision requiring the Corporation to issue (or use commercially reasonable efforts to issue) one or more types of APM Qualifying Securities raising proceeds at least equal to the deferred Distributions on such subordinated debt securities commencing not later than the second anniversary of the commencement of such deferral period and that are the most junior subordinated debt of the Corporation (or rank pari passu with the most junior subordinated debt of the Corporation) (in this definition, "subordinated debt" of the Corporation) and (ii) a fractional interest in a stock purchase contract for a share of non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the Corporation that ranks pari passu with or junior to all other preferred stock of the Corporation (in this definition, "preferred stock" of the Corporation); (b) provides that the investors directly or indirectly grant to the Corporation a security interest in such subordinated debt securities and their proceeds (including any substitute collateral permitted under the transaction documents) to secure the investors' direct or indirect obligation to purchase preferred stock of the Corporation pursuant to such stock purchase contracts; (c) includes a remarketing feature pursuant to which the subordinated debt of the Corporation is remarketed to new investors commencing not later than 11
the first Distribution Date that is at least five years after the date of issuance of securities or earlier in the event of an early settlement event based on: (i) the dissolution of the issuer of such debt exchangeable for preferred equity or (ii) one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of the instrument governing such debt exchangeable for preferred equity; (d) provides for the proceeds raised in the remarketing to be used to purchase preferred stock of the Corporation under the stock purchase contracts and, if there has not been a successful remarketing by the first Distribution Date that is six years after the date of issuance of such securities, provides that the stock purchase contracts will be settled by the Corporation acquiring its subordinated debt securities or other collateral directly or indirectly pledged by investors in the Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity; (e) includes a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or an Other Qualifying Capital Replacement Covenant that will apply to such securities and to the preferred stock of the Corporation, and will not include Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity as a Replacement Capital Security; and (f) if applicable, after the issuance of such preferred stock of the Corporation, provides the holders of such securities with a beneficial interest in such preferred stock of the Corporation. "DISTRIBUTION DATE" means, as to any securities or combination of securities, the dates on which periodic Distributions on such securities are scheduled to be made. "DISTRIBUTION PERIOD" means, as to any securities or combination of securities, each period from and including the later of the issue date and a Distribution Date for such securities to but excluding the next succeeding Distribution Date for such securities. "DISTRIBUTIONS" means, as to a security or combination of securities, dividends, interest payments or other income distributions to the holders thereof that are not Subsidiaries of the Corporation. "ELIGIBLE DEBT" means, at any time, indebtedness, other than the Debentures and securities that are pari passu with the Debentures, that is Eligible Subordinated Debt or, if no Eligible Subordinated Debt is then outstanding, Eligible Senior Debt. "ELIGIBLE SENIOR DEBT" means, at any time in respect of any issuer, each series of outstanding unsecured long-term indebtedness for money borrowed of such issuer that (a) upon a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the issuer, ranks most senior among the issuer's then outstanding classes of indebtedness for money borrowed, (b) is then assigned a rating by at least one 12
NRSRO (provided that this clause (b) shall apply on a Redesignation Date only if on such date the issuer has outstanding senior long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that satisfies the requirements of clauses (a), (c) and (d) that is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO), (c) has an outstanding principal amount of not less than $100,000,000, and (d) was issued through or with the assistance of a commercial or investment banking firm or firms acting as underwriters, initial purchasers or placement or distribution agents. For purposes of this definition as applied to securities with a CUSIP number, each issuance of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that has (or, if such indebtedness is held by a trust or other intermediate entity established directly or indirectly by the issuer, the securities of such intermediate entity that have) a separate CUSIP number shall be deemed to be a series of the issuer's long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is separate from each other series of such indebtedness. "ELIGIBLE SUBORDINATED DEBT" means, at any time in respect of any issuer, each series of the issuer's then outstanding unsecured long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that (a) upon a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the issuer, ranks subordinate to the issuer's then outstanding series of indebtedness for money borrowed that ranks most senior, (b) is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO (provided that this clause (b) shall apply on a Redesignation Date only if on such date the issuer has outstanding subordinated long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that satisfies the requirements in clauses (a), (c) and (d) that is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO), (c) has an outstanding principal amount of not less than $100,000,000, and (d) was issued through or with the assistance of a commercial or investment banking firm or firms acting as underwriters, initial purchasers or placement or distribution agents. For purposes of this definition as applied to securities with a CUSIP number, each issuance of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that has (or, if such indebtedness is held by a trust or other intermediate entity established directly or indirectly by the issuer, the securities of such intermediate entity that have) a separate CUSIP number shall be deemed to be a series of the issuer's long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is separate from each other series of such indebtedness. "EXCHANGE ACT" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. "HOLDER" means, as to the Covered Debt then in effect, each holder of such Covered Debt as reflected on the securities register maintained by or on behalf of the Corporation with respect to such Covered Debt. "INDENTURE" means the junior subordinated indenture, dated March 12, 2007 between the Corporation and The Bank of New York, as junior subordinated indenture trustee, as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture. "INITIAL COVERED DEBT" means the Corporation's 6.750% Senior Notes due 2036 (CUSIP: 792860AK4). 13
"INTENT-BASED REPLACEMENT DISCLOSURE" means, as to any security or combination of securities (together in this definition, "securities"), that the issuer has publicly stated its intention, either in the prospectus or other offering document under which such securities were initially offered for sale or in filings with the Commission made by the issuer under the Exchange Act prior to or contemporaneously with the issuance of such securities, that the issuer, to the extent the securities provide the issuer with equity credit, will repay, redeem or purchase such securities only with the proceeds of replacement capital securities that have terms and provisions at the time of repayment, redemption or purchase that are as or more equity-like than the securities then being repaid, redeemed or purchased, raised within 180 days prior to the applicable repayment, redemption or purchase date. "MANDATORILY CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK" means preferred stock with (a) no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, and (b) a requirement that such preferred stock convert into common stock of the issuer within three years from the date of its issuance at a conversion ratio within a range established at the time of issuance of such preferred stock. "MANDATORY TRIGGER PROVISION" means, as to any security or combination of securities (together in this definition, "securities"), provisions in the terms thereof or of the related transaction agreements that (a) require or, at its option in the case of non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, permit the issuer of such securities to make payment of Distributions on such securities only pursuant to the issue and sale of APM Qualifying Securities, within no more than two years of a failure to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements, in an amount such that the net proceeds of such sale are at least equal to the amount of unpaid Distributions on such securities (including without limitation all deferred and accumulated amounts) and in either case require the application of the net proceeds of such sale to pay such unpaid Distributions, provided that: (1) if the APM Qualifying Securities issued and sold are Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, the amount of the net proceeds of Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock and Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock applied, together with the net proceeds of all prior issuances of Qualifying Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock and any still-outstanding Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock applied during the current and all prior deferral periods, to pay such Distributions pursuant to such provision may not exceed 25% of the initial liquidation or principal amount of such securities and (2) if the APM Qualifying Securities issued and sold are Common Stock or Qualifying Warrants and if the Mandatory Trigger provision does not require such issuance and sale within one year of such failure, the number of shares of Common Stock issued or issuable upon the exercise of such Qualifying Warrants plus the number of shares of Common Stock previously issued or issuable upon the exercise of previously issued Qualifying Warrants may not 14
exceed 2% of the total number of issued and outstanding shares of the Corporation's Common Stock as of the date of the Corporation's most recent publicly available consolidated financial statements as of the date of such issuance, (b) prohibit the issuer from purchasing any APM Qualifying Securities or any of the Corporation's securities that on the Corporation's bankruptcy or liquidation rank pari passu or junior to such APM Qualifying Securities prior to the date that is six months after the issuer applies the net proceeds of the sales described in clause (a) to pay such unpaid Distributions, and (c) upon any liquidation, dissolution, winding up, reorganization or in connection with any insolvency, receivership or proceeding under any bankruptcy law with respect to the Corporation, limit the claim of the holders of such securities (other than non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock) to Distributions that accumulate during a period in which the Corporation fails to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements to (x) 25% of the principal amount of such securities then outstanding in the case of securities not permitting the issuance and sale pursuant to the provisions described in clause (a) above of securities other than Common Stock or Qualifying Warrants or (y) Distributions that relate to the earliest two years of the portion of the deferral period for which Distributions have not been paid in all other cases. No remedy other than Permitted Remedies may arise by the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements in favor of the holders of such securities as a result of the issuer's failure to pay Distributions because of the Mandatory Trigger Provision or as a result of the issuer's exercise of its right under an Optional Deferral Provision until Distributions have been deferred for one or more Distribution Periods that total together at least ten years. "MARKET DISRUPTION EVENTS" means one or more events or circumstances substantially similar to those listed as "Market Disruption Events" in the Supplemental Indenture. "MARKET VALUE" means, on any date, the closing sale price per share of Common Stock (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on that date as reported in composite transactions by the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported by the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded or quoted; if the Common Stock is not either listed or quoted on any U.S. securities exchange on the relevant date, the market price will be the average of the mid-point of the bid and ask prices for the Common Stock on the relevant date submitted by at least three nationally recognized independent investment banking firms selected by the Corporation for this purpose. "MEASUREMENT DATE" means (a) with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase of Debentures on or prior to the Scheduled Maturity, the date that is 180 days and (b) with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase of Debentures after the Scheduled Maturity, the date that is 90 days, in 15
each case prior to delivery of notice of such redemption or prior to the date of such repayment or purchase. "MEASUREMENT PERIOD" means the period from a Measurement Date to the related notice date or repayment or purchase date. Measurement Periods cannot run concurrently. "NO PAYMENT PROVISION" means a provision or provisions in the transaction documents for securities (referred to in this definition as "such securities") that include the following: (a) an Alternative Payment Mechanism; and (b) an Optional Deferral Provision modified and supplemented from the general definition of that term to provide that: (i) the issuer of such securities may, in its sole discretion, defer in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods of up to five years or, if a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing, ten years, without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies and the obligations (and limitations on obligations) described in the definition of "Alternative Payment Mechanism" applying; and (ii) if the Corporation becomes subject to a bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar proceeding prior to the redemption or repayment of such securities, the holders of such securities will have no claim to any deferred and unpaid Distributions except for Distributions that relate to the earliest two years of the portion of the deferral period for which distributions have not been paid on such securities; provided, however, that holders of such securities may have an additional preferred equity claim in respect of deferred and unpaid Distributions which are in excess of Distributions that relate to the earliest two years of the portion of the deferral period for which Distributions have not been paid on such securities that is senior to the Corporation's Common Stock and is or would be pari passu with any Qualifying Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock up to the amount equal to their pro rata shares of any unused portion of the Preferred Cap (as defined in the definition of "Alternative Payment Mechanism"). "NON-CUMULATIVE" means, with respect to any securities, that the issuer may elect not to make any number of periodic Distributions without any remedy arising under the terms of the securities or related agreements in favor of the holders, other than one or more Permitted Remedies. "NRSRO" means a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act. 16
"OPTIONAL DEFERRAL PROVISION" means, as to any securities, provisions in the terms thereof or of the related transaction agreements to the effect of either (a) or (b) below: (a) (i) the issuer of such securities may, in its sole discretion, defer in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods of up to five years or, if a Market Disruption Event is continuing, ten years, without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies and (ii) an Alternative Payment Mechanism (provided that such Alternative Payment Mechanism need not apply during the first five years of any deferral period and need not include a Common Cap or Preferred Cap); or (b) the issuer of such securities may, in its sole discretion, defer in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods up to ten years, without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies. "OTHER QUALIFYING CAPITAL REPLACEMENT COVENANT" means a replacement capital covenant, as identified by the Corporation's Board of Directors acting in good faith and in its reasonable discretion and reasonably construing the definitions and other terms of this Replacement Capital Covenant, (i) entered into by a company that at the time it enters into such replacement capital covenant is a reporting company under the Exchange Act and (ii) that restricts the related issuer from redeeming or purchasing identified securities except from the applicable percentage of the proceeds of specified replacement capital securities that have terms and provisions at the time of redemption or purchase that are as or more equity-like than the securities then being redeemed or purchased, raised within 180 days prior to the applicable redemption or purchase date. "PERMITTED REMEDIES" means, with respect to any securities, one or more of the following remedies: (a) rights in favor of the holders of such securities permitting such holders to elect one or more directors of the issuer (including any such rights required by the listing requirements of any stock or securities exchange on which such securities may be listed or traded), and (b) complete or partial prohibitions preventing the issuer from paying Distributions on or purchasing Common Stock or other securities that rank pari passu with or junior as to Distributions to such securities for so long as Distributions on such securities, including unpaid Distributions, remain unpaid. "PERSON" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, limited liability company or corporation, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof. 17
"PROSPECTUS" has the meaning specified in Recital B. "QUALIFYING CAPITAL SECURITIES" means securities (other than Common Stock, Qualifying Warrants, Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock and Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity) that, in the determination of the Corporation's Board of Directors reasonably construing the definitions and other terms of this Replacement Capital Covenant, meet one of the following criteria: (a) in connection with any repayment, redemption or purchase of Debentures prior to March 15, 2017: (i) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank pari passu with or junior to the Debentures upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (B) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (C) either (x) are subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or an Other Qualifying Capital Replacement Covenant and have either a No Payment Provision or are Non-Cumulative or (y) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision and are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure and have either an Optional Deferral Provision or a No Payment Provision; or (ii) preferred stock issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) is Non-Cumulative, (B) has no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, (C) has no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (D) either (x) is subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or an Other Qualifying Capital Replacement Covenant or (y) has a Mandatory Trigger Provision and is subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure; or (iii) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank pari passu or junior to the Debentures, (B) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years, (C) are subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or an Other Qualifying Capital Replacement Covenant, (D) have an Optional Deferral Provision and (E) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision; or (b) in connection with any repayment, redemption or purchase of Debentures at any time on or after March 15, 2017 but prior to March 15, 2037: (i) all securities described under clause (a) of this definition; (ii) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank pari passu with or junior to the Debentures upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (B) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years, (C) are subject to a replacement capital 18
covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or an Other Qualifying Capital Replacement Covenant and (D) have an Optional Deferral Provision; (iii) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank pari passu with or junior to the Debentures upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (B) are Non-Cumulative or have a No Payment Provision, (C) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (D) are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure; (iv) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank pari passu with or junior to the Debentures upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (B) are Non-Cumulative or have a No Payment Provision, (C) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years and (D) are subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or an Other Qualifying Capital Replacement Covenant; (v) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank pari passu with or junior to the Debentures upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (B) have an Optional Deferral Provision, (C) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision and (D) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years; (vi) cumulative preferred stock issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) has no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, and (B) (x) has no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (y) is subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or an Other Qualifying Capital Replacement Covenant; or (vii) other securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation either (x) pari passu with or junior to the Debentures or (y) pari passu with the claims of the Corporation's trade creditors and junior to all of the Corporation's long-term indebtedness for money borrowed (other than the Corporation's long-term indebtedness for money borrowed from time to time outstanding that by its terms ranks pari passu with such securities on a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation), (B) have an Optional Deferral Provision or a No Payment Provision and (C) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision and (D) either (x) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years and Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure or (y) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 30 years and are subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or an Other Qualifying Capital Replacement Covenant; or 19
(c) in connection with any repayment, redemption or purchase of Debentures at any time on or after March 15, 2037: (i) securities described under clause (b) of this definition; (ii) preferred stock issued by the Corporation that (A) (x) has no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (y) is subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure and (B) is Non-Cumulative; (iii) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank pari passu with or junior to the Debentures upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (B) either (x) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years and are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure or (y) have no maturity or a maturity at least 30 years and are subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or an Other Qualifying Capital Replacement Covenant and (C) are Non-Cumulative; (iv) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) rank pari passu with or junior to the Debentures upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (B) have an Optional Deferral Provision, (C) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision, (D) have no maturity or a maturity at least 30 years and (E) are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure; or (v) cumulative preferred stock issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that either (A) has no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and is subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure or (B) has a maturity of at least 40 years and is subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or an Other Qualifying Capital Replacement Covenant. "QUALIFYING NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK" means non-cumulative preferred stock of the Corporation that ranks pari passu with or junior to all other preferred stock of the Corporation, is perpetual and (a) is subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or an Other Qualifying Capital Replacement Covenant, provided that the applicable percentage as defined in such covenant is defined as 1 divided by 75%, and that the qualifying capital securities permitted under such covenant are limited to those as described under clause (a) of the definition of Qualifying Capital Securities in this Replacement Capital Covenant or (b) is subject to both (i) mandatory suspension of dividends in the event the Corporation breaches certain financial metrics specified within the offering documents, and (ii) Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure. Additionally, in both (a) and (b) the transaction documents shall provide for no remedies as a consequence of non-payment of Distributions other than Permitted Remedies. 20
"QUALIFYING WARRANTS" means any net share settled warrants to purchase the Corporation's Common Stock that (1) have an exercise price greater than the current stock market price, determined as specified in the instrument governing such warrants, of the Corporation's Common Stock, and (2) the Corporation is not entitled to redeem for cash and the holders of which are not entitled to require the Corporation to purchase for cash in any circumstances. "REDESIGNATION DATE" means, as to the Covered Debt in effect at any time, the earliest of (a) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date of such Covered Debt, (b) if the Corporation elects to redeem or repay, or the Corporation or a Subsidiary of the Corporation elects to purchase, such Covered Debt either in whole or in part with the consequence that after giving effect to such redemption, repayment or purchase the outstanding principal amount of such Covered Debt is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption, repayment or purchase date and (c) if such Covered Debt is not Eligible Subordinated Debt, the date on which the Corporation issues long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Subordinated Debt. "REPLACEMENT CAPITAL COVENANT" has the meaning specified in the introduction to this instrument. "REPLACEMENT CAPITAL SECURITIES" means, (a) Common Stock and Qualifying Warrants; (b) Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock; (c) Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity; (d) Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity; and (e) Qualifying Capital Securities. "SCHEDULED MATURITY" means March 15, 2037. "SUBSIDIARY" means, at any time, any Person the shares of stock or other ownership interests of which having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other managers of such Person are at the time owned, or the management or policies of which are otherwise at the time controlled, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries (including other Subsidiaries) or both, by another Person. "SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE" means the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 12, 2007, between the Corporation and The Bank of New York, as trustee. "TERMINATION DATE" has the meaning specified in Section 4(a). 21


