FILE:TRV/TRV-8K-20101021062532.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 21, 2010, The Travelers Companies, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the results of the Company's operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, and the availability of the Company's third quarter financial supplement on the Company's web site.  The press release and the financial supplement are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report and are hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.
 
As provided in General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information and exhibits contained in this Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall they be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 
            
Net and operating income of $1.0 billion and $858 million, respectively.
 
            
Total revenues of $6.482 billion, up 2 percent from prior year quarter.
 
            
Net written premiums of $5.462 billion, up 2 percent from prior year quarter.
 
            
Book value per share of $59.11, up 15 percent from prior year quarter and up 13 percent from year-end 2009.
 
            
Repurchased 11.8 million common shares in the quarter for $600 million. Year-to-date repurchased 66.8 million common shares for $3.4 billion.
 
            
Net income included a net realized investment gain of $133 million after-tax ($205 million pre-tax) from sale of Verisk shares.
 
NEW YORK, October 21, 2010
 The Travelers Companies, Inc. ("Travelers," NYSE: TRV) today reported net income of $1.005 billion, or $2.11 per diluted share, for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, compared to $935 million, or $1.65 per diluted share, for the quarter ended September 30, 2009.  Operating income in the current quarter was $858 million, or $1.81 per diluted share, compared to $914 million, or $1.61 per diluted share, in the prior year quarter.
 
"Our third quarter results were very strong," commented Jay Fishman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.  "Net income of $1.0 billion was up 7 percent, or 28 percent on a per diluted share basis, and our return on equity was 15 percent. Underwriting results remained strong across each of our business segments, as evidenced by our consolidated combined ratio of 90.6 percent. Net investment income remained solid although modestly lower than the prior year quarter.
"In Personal Insurance we were very pleased with our performance. We achieved meaningfully positive renewal premium changes, and we continued to grow policies in force as retention and new business were strong. In addition, earned rate increases outpaced loss cost trends. All of these factors contributed to a higher level of profitability in the current quarter.  Marketplace conditions are such that we are optimistic that we will be able to continue to grow our Personal Insurance business.
 
"While current profitability across our diversified commercial insurance businesses is solid, the general economic environment continues to present challenges. Reinvestment yields are low by historical standards and exposure and pricing remain flat. On a positive note, our retention continues to be, in general, at historical highs and loss cost trends remain benign.  We have kept our focus on running the business for the long-term, emphasizing account retention, seeking rate where it is appropriate and growing our business where we believe pricing levels warrant. Account growth in Business Insurance has been impressive, and we believe we are well positioned to benefit upon an improvement in economic conditions.
 
"Lastly, we also remain committed to returning excess capital to shareholders as evidenced by the 66.8 million common shares for a total cost of $3.4 billion repurchased year-to-date. Since the Board's initial share repurchase authorization granted in the second quarter of 2006, we have repurchased 260 million common shares, or 37 percent of the then outstanding number, for a total cost of $12.9 billion," concluded Mr. Fishman.
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures for definitions and the statistical supplement for additional financial data.
The current and prior year quarters included the following:
 
 
Operating income of $858 million after-tax in the current quarter decreased $56 million from the prior year quarter primarily due to a $36 million after-tax decrease in the underwriting gain and $19 million after-tax decrease in net investment income.
 
The decrease in the underwriting gain in the current quarter reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 90.6 percent, as compared to 89.7 percent in the prior year quarter.  This increase of 0.9 points in the combined ratio was driven by an $87 million pre-tax decrease in net favorable prior year reserve development (increase of 1.6 points), partially offset by a $41 million pre-tax decrease in catastrophe losses (reduction of 0.7 points). Catastrophe losses in the current quarter were primarily due to several severe wind and hail storms. The net favorable prior year reserve development in the current quarter resulted from better than expected loss experience in each segment, particularly in Business Insurance and Financial, Professional & International Insurance.
 
The net favorable prior year reserve development in the current quarter in Business Insurance included a $91 million after-tax ($140 million pre-tax) increase to asbestos reserves, compared to an increase of $120 million after-tax ($185 million pre-tax) in the prior year quarter.  Overall, the company's assessment of the underlying asbestos environment did not change significantly from recent periods. The reserve strengthening in the current quarter was driven by increases in the company's estimate for projected settlement and defense costs related to a broad number of policyholders, costs of litigating asbestos-related coverage matters and projected payments on assumed reinsurance accounts.  Included in the increase to asbestos reserves was a $70 million pre-tax benefit from a reduction in the company's allowance for uncollectible reinsurance resulting from a recent favorable court ruling in a dispute with Munich Re as well as the Excess Casualty Reinsurance Association. The entire award of $417 million consisted of $251 million owed to the company under the terms of the reinsurance agreement, as well as a 9 percent interest award in the amount of $166 million. Based upon this ruling, the company reduced its uncollectible reinsurance reserve by $70 million pre-tax, thereby reflecting in its financial statement the full $251 million owed to the company under the terms of the reinsurance agreement and benefitting operating income by $45 million after-tax. The interest portion of the award was accounted for as a gain contingency in accordance with FASB Topic 450 and, accordingly, has not been included in net or operating income.
The current quarter underwriting gain excluding net favorable prior year reserve development, catastrophe losses and the re-estimation of current year loss ratios for the first two quarters of the year reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 92.7 percent, as compared to 93.8 percent in the prior year quarter.  This improvement of 1.1 points was primarily due to lower expenses, partially offset by the impact of loss cost trends continuing to modestly outpace earned rate increases in Business Insurance.
 
The investment portfolio continued to perform well. After-tax net investment income decreased modestly from the prior year quarter mostly due to lower reinvestment rates in the fixed income portfolio.  Net investment income in the non-fixed income portfolio increased slightly from the prior year quarter.  Net realized investment gains of $147 million after-tax ($226 million pre-tax) in the current quarter primarily resulted from the sale of substantially all of the company's remaining common stock holdings in Verisk Analytics, Inc., which contributed $133 million after-tax ($205 million pre-tax).
 
Net written premiums of $5.462 billion in the current quarter increased 2 percent from the prior year quarter.  Retention rates and new business remained strong, while renewal rate change remained positive in Personal Insurance and Financial, Professional & International Insurance and were slightly negative in Business Insurance.
 
"During the quarter, we repurchased 11.8 million common shares under our Board of Directors' share repurchase authorization for a total cost of $600 million, leaving $3.1 billion of capacity for future share repurchases," said Jay S. Benet, Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer. "We also paid $169 million in common stock dividends.  Additionally, we announced recently that we were increasing guidance for total share repurchases for full year 2010 to a range of $4.5 billion to $5.0 billion from previous guidance of $4.0 billion."
 
Shareholders' equity of $27.3 billion decreased 3 percent from the prior year quarter as a result of the common share repurchases.  Included in shareholders' equity at the end of the current quarter were after-tax net unrealized investment gains of $3.0 billion, compared to $2.2 billion at the end of the prior year quarter.  Statutory surplus was $20.9 billion, the company's debt-to-capital ratio (excluding net unrealized investment
gains) was 20.5 percent, and holding company liquidity was $2.8 billion, over two times its target level.
 
"We were pleased with the Business Insurance results" commented Brian MacLean, President and Chief Operating Officer. "Our strategic actions and focused execution resulted in significant customer growth as evidenced by increased retentions and solid new business levels in the quarter. While top line performance continued to be constrained by general economic conditions, we are seeing improved trends in insured exposures. We are encouraged by these trends and the impact of our strategic actions which we believe position us well in the marketplace."
 
The current and prior year quarters included the following:
 
 
Operating income in the current quarter of $543 million after-tax decreased $125 million from the prior year quarter primarily due to a $112 million after-tax decrease in the underwriting gain and a $9 million after-tax decrease in net investment income.
 
The decrease in the underwriting gain in the current quarter reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 92.1 percent, as compared to 86.5 percent in the prior year quarter.  This increase of 5.6 points in the combined ratio was primarily driven by a $160 million pre-tax decrease in net favorable prior year reserve development (increase of 5.7 points), partially offset by a $33 million pre-tax decrease in catastrophe losses (reduction of 1.1 points).  Catastrophe losses in the current quarter were primarily due to several severe wind and hail storms. The net favorable prior year reserve development in the current quarter primarily resulted from better than expected loss experience in the general liability, property, commercial automobile, and workers' compensation product lines across multiple accident years.  The net favorable prior year reserve development in the current quarter also included an increase to asbestos reserves of $140 million pre-tax.
The current quarter underwriting gain excluding net favorable prior year reserve development, catastrophe losses and the re-estimation of current year loss ratios for the first two quarters of the year reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 94.3 percent, as compared to 95.7 percent in the prior year quarter.  This improvement of 1.4 points was primarily due to lower expenses, partially offset by the impact of loss cost trends continuing to modestly outpace earned rate increases.
 
Business Insurance net written premiums of $2.651 billion in the current quarter increased 2 percent from the prior year quarter.  General economic conditions continued to impact exposure changes at renewal, audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid-term cancellations, but the impact was less than in recent quarters.  Retention rates remained strong and increased from recent quarters. The impact of renewal rate change was slightly negative, while new business volumes were solid.
 
Select Accounts
 
            
Net written premiums of $664 million increased 1 percent from the prior year quarter.
            
Retention rates increased from recent quarters.
            
Renewal premium change remained positive, but decreased from recent quarters.
            
New business volumes were consistent with the prior year quarter. The company continues to see strong volumes from Travelers
Express
SM
, the company's enhanced quote-to-issue agency platform and multivariate pricing program for smaller businesses.
 
Commercial Accounts
 
            
Net written premiums of $655 million increased 8 percent from the prior year quarter.
            
Retention rates remained very strong and increased from recent quarters.
            
Renewal premium change was slightly negative due to slightly negative renewal rate change.
            
New business volumes increased from the prior year quarter due to increased submission flow and continued strong execution in the marketplace.
 
National Accounts
 
                 
Net written premiums of $173 million decreased 12 percent from the prior year quarter due to reduced insured exposures driven by general economic conditions, lower new business volumes, lower prior year retrospective premium adjustments and the loss of a large account.
 
Industry-Focused Underwriting
 
            
Net written premiums of $590 million increased 5 percent from the prior year quarter primarily due to the company's Technology and Oil & Gas business units.
Target Risk Underwriting
 
            
Net written premiums of $342 million decreased 5 percent from the prior year quarter primarily due to the company's National Property business unit, driven by lower renewal price change and new business volumes.
 
Specialized Distribution
 
            
Net written premiums of $222 million approximated the prior year quarter.
 
"Financial, Professional & International Insurance results were solid in the current quarter and the segment once again benefited from net favorable prior year reserve development," commented Mr. MacLean. "Net written premiums were down 7 percent compared to the prior year quarter largely due to intentional underwriting actions we have taken in certain lines of our International business as well as a slowdown in construction spending in our construction surety business. On a written basis margins were stable."
 
The current and prior year quarters included the following:
 
 
Operating income in the current quarter of $212 million after-tax increased $45 million from the prior year quarter primarily due to a $52 million after-tax increase in the underwriting gain, partially offset by a $7 million after-tax decrease in net investment income.
 
The increase in underwriting results in the current quarter reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 79.6 percent, as compared to 88.7 percent in the prior year quarter.  This improvement of 9.1 points in the combined ratio was driven by a $72 million pre-tax increase in net favorable prior year reserve development (reduction of 8.9 points).  The net favorable prior year reserve development in the current quarter resulted from better
than expected loss experience for recent accident years in both the surety and management liability lines of business within Bond & Financial Products as well as across various lines of business in International.
 
The current quarter underwriting gain excluding net favorable prior year reserve development and catastrophes reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 91.7 percent, as compared to 91.1 percent in the prior year quarter. This increase of 0.6 points was primarily due to lower earned premium volume, mostly offset by earned rate increases and lower loss severity.
 
Financial, Professional & International Insurance net written premiums of $808 million decreased 7 percent from the prior year quarter. Adjusting for the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates, net written premiums decreased 6 percent.
 
Retention rates, renewal premium changes and new business volumes, as discussed below, exclude the surety line of business as surety products are sold on a non-recurring, project specific basis.
 
Bond & Financial Products
 
            
Net written premiums of $547 million decreased 5 percent from the prior year quarter, primarily reflecting lower business volumes in construction surety due to the continued slowdown in construction spending.
            
Retention rates were strong and increased from recent quarters.
            
Renewal premium change was negative due to slightly negative renewal rate changes as well as reduced insured exposures.
            
New business volumes decreased modestly from the prior year quarter across most units of the company's Management Liability business.
 
International
 
            
Net written premiums of $261 million decreased 12 percent from the prior year quarter. Adjusting for the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates, net written premiums decreased 9 percent.
            
Retention rates decreased from recent quarters largely due to intentional underwriting actions taken at the company's Lloyd's operation.
            
Renewal premium change was flat as the impact of positive renewal rate changes was offset by reduced insured exposure.
            
New business volumes decreased from the prior year quarter primarily due to higher volumes in Ireland in the prior year quarter and the intentional underwriting actions in the company's Lloyd's operation.
 
"Personal Insurance continued to deliver profitable growth in the current quarter.  These results reflect the success of our investments and strategic actions implemented over the past few years," commented Mr. MacLean. "Earned rate increases outpaced loss costs in both our Agency Automobile and Agency Homeowners lines of business. Production remained solid across both lines of business, as policies in force continued to grow and retention rates remained at very high levels.  Given our underwriting margins and top-line performance, we continue to be very pleased with our position in the marketplace."
 
The current and prior year quarters included the following:
 
Operating income in the current quarter of $168 million after-tax increased $19 million from the prior year quarter primarily due to a $24 million after-tax increase in underwriting results, partially offset by a $3 million after-tax decrease in net investment income.
 
The increase in underwriting results in the current quarter reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 93.1 percent, as compared to 95.2 percent in the prior year quarter.  Catastrophe losses and net favorable prior year reserve development were consistent with the prior year quarter.  Catastrophe losses in the current quarter were primarily due to several severe wind and hail storms. The net favorable prior year reserve development in the current quarter resulted from better than expected loss experience in Homeowners and Other.
The current quarter underwriting results excluding net favorable prior year reserve development, catastrophe losses and re-estimation of current year loss ratios for the first two quarters of the year reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 90.7 percent, as compared to 92.4 percent in the prior year quarter. This improvement of 1.7 points was primarily due to lower expenses and the favorable impact of earned rate increases outpacing loss cost trends.
 
Personal Insurance net written premiums of $2.003 billion increased 8 percent from the prior year quarter, including the company's direct to consumer initiative and introduction of twelve-month policy terms in certain markets within Automobile.  Adjusting for the introduction of twelve-month policy terms, net written premiums increased 5 percent due to continued positive renewal premium changes, strong retention rates and new business growth.
 
Agency Automobile and Agency Homeowners and Other, as discussed below, represent business sold through agents, brokers and other intermediaries and exclude direct to consumer.
 
Agency Automobile
 
            
Net written premiums of $952 million increased 6 percent from the prior year quarter. Adjusting for the introduction of the twelve-month policy terms, net written premiums increased 1 percent from the prior year quarter.
            
Policies in force increased 1 percent from the prior year quarter.
            
Retention rates were strong and renewal premium change remained positive.
            
New business volumes increased from the prior year quarter.
 
Agency Homeowners and Other
 
            
Net written premiums of $1.024 billion increased 8 percent from the prior year quarter.
            
Policies in force increased 4 percent from the prior year quarter.
            
Retention rates were strong and renewal premium change remained positive.
            
New business volumes decreased slightly from the prior year quarter.
The current and prior year-to-date periods included the following:
 
 
Operating income of $2.179 billion after-tax in the current year-to-date period decreased $266 million from the prior year period primarily due to a $396 million after-tax decrease in the underwriting gain resulting from significantly higher catastrophe losses, partially offset by a $187 million after-tax increase in net investment income.
 
The decrease in the underwriting gain in the current year-to-date period reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 94.0 percent, as compared to 91.2 percent in the prior year period.  This increase of 2.8 points in the combined ratio was driven by a $586 million pre-tax increase in catastrophe losses (increase of 3.7 points), partially offset by a $72 million pre-tax increase in net favorable prior year reserve development (reduction of 0.5 points).
 
The current year-to-date period underwriting gain excluding net favorable prior year reserve development and catastrophe losses reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 93.2 percent, as compared to 93.6 percent in the prior year period. The improvement of 0.4 points was concentrated in Personal Insurance and reflected earned rate increases modestly outpacing loss cost trends, as well as lower non-catastrophe weather-related losses.
Travelers expects that its full year 2010 operating income per diluted share will be in the range of $5.75 to $5.95, as compared to the previously announced range of $5.20 to $5.45. This guidance includes the reported results for the first nine months of 2010 and estimates for the remainder of 2010 based on a number of assumptions, including:
 
                 
Catastrophe losses of $1.170 billion pre-tax and $765 million after-tax, or $1.58 per diluted share, for the full year which incorporates actual experience for the first nine months of 2010 of $1.027 billion pre-tax and $674 million after-tax and projects $140 million pre-tax and $90 million after-tax, or $0.20 per diluted share, for the remainder of the year;
                 
No additional prior year reserve development, favorable or unfavorable;
                 
Low single digit percentage decrease in average invested assets (excluding net unrealized investment gains and losses), after taking into account dividends and share repurchases;
                 
Common share repurchases in a range of $4.5 billion to $5.0 billion for the full year; and
                 
Weighted average diluted shares of approximately 485 million.
 
As noted above, the company's earnings guidance for the full year 2010 reflects actual prior year reserve development through the third quarter, but does not assume any additional prior year reserve development, favorable or unfavorable.  The company understands that the earnings estimates published by third parties may include assumed amounts of prior year reserve development for future periods. As a result, third party earnings estimates for the company may not be expressed on a basis comparable to the earnings guidance provided by the company.
 
Financial Supplement and Conference Call
 
The information in this press release should be read in conjunction with a financial supplement that is available on our website at www.travelers.com.  Travelers management will discuss the contents of this release and other relevant topics via webcast at 9 a.m. Eastern (8 a.m. Central) on Thursday, October 21, 2010.  Prior to the webcast, a slide presentation pertaining to the quarterly earnings will be available on the company's website.  Following the live event, an audio playback of the webcast and the slide presentation will be available on the company's website.
 
To view the slides or to listen to the webcast or the playback, visit the "Webcasts & Presentations" section of the Travelers investor relations website at http://investor.travelers.com.
 
About Travelers
The Travelers Companies, Inc (NYSE: TRV) is a leading provider of property casualty insurance for auto, home and business.  A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, Travelers has more than 30,000 employees and generated revenues of approximately $25 billion in 2009. For more information, visit www.travelers.com.
From time to time, Travelers may use its website as a channel of distribution of material company information. Financial and other material information regarding the company is routinely posted on and accessible at http://investor.travelers.com.  In addition, you may automatically receive email alerts and other information about Travelers by enrolling your email by visiting the "Email Alert Service" section at http://investor.travelers.com.
 
Travelers has organized its businesses into the following reportable business segments:
 
Business Insurance
: The Business Insurance segment offers a broad array of property and casualty insurance and insurance-related services to its clients primarily in the United States.  Business Insurance is organized into the following six groups, which collectively comprise Business Insurance Core operations: Select Accounts; Commercial Accounts; National Accounts; Industry-Focused Underwriting including Construction, Technology, Public Sector Services, Oil & Gas and Agribusiness; Target Risk Underwriting including National Property, Inland Marine, Ocean Marine, Excess Casualty, Boiler & Machinery and Global Accounts; and Specialized Distribution including Northland and National Programs.  Business Insurance also includes the Special Liability Group (which manages the company's asbestos and environmental liabilities) and the assumed reinsurance and certain international and other runoff operations, which collectively are referred to as Business Insurance Other.
 
Financial, Professional & International Insurance
: The Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment includes surety and management liability coverages, which require a primarily credit-based underwriting process, as well as property and casualty products that are primarily marketed on a domestic basis in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Canada, and on an international basis through Lloyd's.  The businesses in Financial, Professional & International Insurance are Bond & Financial Products and International.
 
Personal Insurance
: The Personal Insurance segment writes virtually all types of property and casualty insurance covering personal risks.  The primary coverages in this segment are automobile and homeowners insurance sold to individuals.
Forward Looking Statement
 
This press release contains, and management may make, certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  All statements, other than statements of historical facts, may be forward-looking statements.  Specifically, earnings guidance, statements about the Company's share repurchase plans and statements about the potential impact of investment markets and other economic conditions on the Company's investment portfolio and underwriting results, among others, are forward looking, and the Company may also make forward-looking statements about, among other things:
 
                 
its results of operations and financial condition (including, among other things, premium volume, premium rates, net and operating income, investment income and performance, return on equity, and expected current returns and combined ratios);
                 
the sufficiency of the Company's asbestos and other reserves (including, among other things, asbestos claim payment patterns);
                 
the impact of emerging claims issues;
                 
the cost and availability of reinsurance coverage;
                 
catastrophe losses;
                 
the impact of investment, economic and underwriting market conditions; and
                 
strategic initiatives.
The Company cautions investors that such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the Company's control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements.
 
Some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
                 
catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations, its financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact the Company's ratings, the Company's ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance;
                 
during or following a period of financial market disruption or prolonged economic downturn, the Company's business could be materially and adversely affected;
                 
the Company's investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or material losses, including as a result of a challenging economic environment that impacts the credit of municipal or other issuers in our portfolio;
                 
if actual claims exceed the Company's loss reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of loss reserves are necessary, the Company's financial results could be materially and adversely affected;
                 
the Company's business could be harmed because of its potential exposure to asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation;
                 
the Company is exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances;
                 
the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on the Company's business are uncertain;
                 
the intense competition that the Company faces could harm its ability to maintain or increase its business volumes and profitability;
                 
the Company may not be able to collect all amounts due to it from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to the Company in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all;
                 
the Company is exposed to credit risk in certain of its business operations;
                 
the Company's businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation (including as a result of the adoption of financial services reform legislation) may reduce the Company's profitability and limit its growth;
                 
a downgrade in the Company's claims-paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact the Company's business volumes, adversely impact the Company's ability to access the capital markets and increase the Company's borrowing costs;
                 
the inability of the Company's insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to the Company's holding company in sufficient amounts would harm the Company's ability to meet its obligations and to pay future shareholder dividends;
                 
disruptions to the Company's relationships with its independent agents and brokers could adversely affect the Company;
                 
the Company's efforts to develop new products (including its direct to consumer initiative in Personal Insurance) or expand in targeted markets may not be successful, may create enhanced risks and may adversely impact results;
                 
the Company's business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology;
                 
if the Company experiences difficulties with technology, data security and/or outsourcing relationships the Company's ability to conduct its business could be negatively impacted;
                 
acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties and other unintended consequences;
                 
the Company is subject to a number of risks associated with conducting business outside the United States;
                 
the Company could be adversely affected if its controls to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective;
                 
the Company's businesses may be adversely affected if it is unable to hire and retain qualified employees;
                 
loss of or significant restriction on the use of credit scoring in the pricing and underwriting of Personal Insurance products could reduce the Company's future profitability; and
                 
the operation of the Company's repurchase plans depend on a variety of factors, including the Company's financial position, earnings, capital requirements of the Company's operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, catastrophe losses, other investment opportunities (including mergers and acquisitions), market conditions and other factors.
 
Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release or as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements.  For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the information under the caption "Risk Factors" in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The following measures are used by the company's management to evaluate financial performance against historical results and establish targets on a consolidated basis.  In some cases, these measures are considered non-GAAP financial measures under applicable SEC rules because they are not displayed as separate line items in the consolidated financial statements or are not required to be disclosed in the notes to financial statements or, in some cases, include or exclude certain items not ordinarily included or excluded in the most comparable GAAP financial measure. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to their most directly comparable GAAP measures also follows.
 
In the opinion of the company's management, a discussion of these measures provides investors, financial analysts, rating agencies and other financial statement users with a better understanding of the significant factors that comprise the company's periodic results of operations and how management evaluates the company's financial performance.   Internally, the company's management uses these measures to evaluate performance against historical results, to establish financial targets on a consolidated basis and for other reasons, which are discussed below.
 
Some of these measures exclude net realized investment gains (losses), net of tax, and/or net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax, which can be significantly impacted by both discretionary and other economic factors and are not necessarily indicative of operating trends.
 
Other companies may calculate these measures differently, and, therefore, their measures may not be comparable to those used by the company's management.
 
RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME AND CERTAIN OTHER NON-GAAP MEASURES TO NET INCOME
 
Operating income (loss)
is net income (loss) excluding the after-tax impact of net realized investment gains (losses) and discontinued operations.  Management uses operating income to analyze each segment's performance and as a tool in making business decisions.  Financial statement users also consider operating income when analyzing the results and trends of insurance companies.  is operating income (loss) on a per common share basis.
Operating earnings (loss) per share
Reconciliation of Operating Income (Loss) less Preferred Dividends and Net Income (Loss) less Preferred Dividends to Net Income
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Operating Earnings per Share to Net Income per Share on a Basic and Diluted Basis
 
 
Reconciliation of Operating Income by Segment to Total Operating Income
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF ADJUSTED SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY TO SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND OPERATING RETURN ON EQUITY TO RETURN ON EQUITY
 
Average shareholders' equity
is (a) the sum of total shareholders' equity excluding preferred stock at the beginning and end of each of the quarters for the period presented divided by (b) the number of quarters in the period presented times two. is shareholders' equity excluding net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax, net realized investment gains (losses), net of tax, for the period presented, preferred stock and discontinued operations.  is average shareholders' equity excluding net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax, for all quarters included in the calculation and, for each quarterly period included in the calculation, that quarter's net realized investment gains (losses), net of tax.
  Adjusted shareholders' equity
Adjusted average shareholders' equity
 
Reconciliation of Adjusted Shareholders' Equity to Shareholders' Equity
 
 
Return on equity
is the ratio of annualized net income (loss) less preferred dividends to average shareholders' equity for the periods presented.  is the ratio of annualized operating income (loss) less preferred dividends to adjusted average shareholders' equity for the periods presented.  In the opinion of the company's management, these are important indicators of how well management creates value for its shareholders through its operating activities and its capital management.
Operating return on equity
Calculation of Operating Return on Equity and Return on Equity
 
Average annual operating return on equity
over a period is the ratio of:
a) the sum of operating income (loss) less preferred dividends for the periods presented to
b) the sum of: 1) the sum of the adjusted average shareholders' equity for all full years in the period presented, and 2) for partial years in the period presented, the number of quarters in that partial year divided by four, multiplied by the adjusted average shareholders' equity of the partial year.
 
Calculation of Average Annual Operating Return on Equity from January 1, 2005 through September 30, 2010
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF PRE-TAX UNDERWRITING GAIN (LOSS) EXCLUDING CERTAIN ITEMS TO NET INCOME
 
Underwriting gain (loss)
is net earned premiums and fee income less claims and claim adjustment expenses and insurance-related expenses.  In the opinion of the company's management, it is important to measure the profitability of each segment excluding the results of investing activities, which are managed separately from the insurance business.  This measure is used to assess each segment's business performance and as a tool in making business decisions.  , is the underwriting gain (loss) adjusted to exclude claims, claim adjustment expenses, and reinstatement premiums and assessments related to catastrophes and loss reserve development related to time periods prior to the current quarter.  In the opinion of the company's management, this measure is meaningful to users of the financial statements to understand the company's periodic earnings and the variability of earnings caused by the unpredictable nature (i.e., the timing and amount) of catastrophes and loss reserve development.
Pre-tax
underwriting gain (loss), excluding the impact of catastrophes, net favorable (unfavorable) prior year loss reserve development and the re-estimation of current year loss ratios
 
A is a severe loss, resulting from natural and man-made events, including risks such as fire, earthquake, windstorm, explosion, terrorism and other similar events.  Each catastrophe has unique characteristics, and catastrophes are not predictable as to timing or amount.  Their effects are included in
catastrophe
 
net and operating income and claims and claim adjustment expense reserves upon occurrence.  A catastrophe may result in the payment of reinsurance reinstatement premiums and assessments from various pools.  In the opinion of the company's management, a discussion of the impact of catastrophes is meaningful to users of the financial statements to understand the company's periodic earnings and the variability in periodic earnings caused by the unpredictable nature of catastrophes.
 
Net favorable (unfavorable) prior year loss reserve development
is the increase or decrease in incurred claims and claim adjustment expenses as a result of the re-estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at successive valuation dates for a given group of claims. is loss reserve development related to time periods in the current year that are prior to the current quarter.  Loss reserve development may be related to one or more prior years or the current year.  In the opinion of the company's management, a discussion of loss reserve development is meaningful to users of the financial statements as it allows them to assess the impact between prior and current year development on incurred claims and claim adjustment expenses, net and operating income, and changes in claims and claim adjustment expense reserve levels from period to period.
Re-estimation of current year loss ratios
 
Reconciliation of Pre-tax Underwriting Gain (Loss) (Excluding the Impact of Catastrophes, Net Favorable (Unfavorable) Prior Year Loss Reserve Development and Re-Estimation of Current year Loss Ratios) to Net Income
 
ADJUSTMENT TO THE GAAP COMBINED RATIO FOR THE INCREMENTAL IMPACT OF THE DIRECT TO CONSUMER INITIATIVE
 
GAAP combined ratio
is the sum of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio (loss and LAE ratio) and the underwriting expense ratio.  For GAAP, the loss and LAE ratio is the ratio of incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses reduced by an allocation of fee income to net earned premiums.  The underwriting expense ratio is the ratio of underwriting expenses incurred reduced by an allocation of fee income, and billing and policy fees to net earned premiums.  A GAAP combined ratio under 100% generally indicates an underwriting profit.  A GAAP combined ratio over 100% generally indicates an underwriting loss.  The GAAP combined ratio is an operating statistic that includes GAAP measures in the numerator and the denominator.
 
Calculation of the GAAP Combined Ratio
 
 
(1)
         
For purposes of computing GAAP ratios, billing and policy fees (which are a component of other revenues) are allocated as a reduction of other underwriting expenses.  In addition, fee income is allocated as a reduction of losses and loss adjustment expense and other underwriting expenses.
 
GAAP combined ratio excluding the incremental impact of the direct to consumer initiative
is the GAAP combined ratio adjusted to exclude the direct, variable impact of the company's direct-to-consumer initiative in Personal Insurance.  In the opinion of the company's management, this is useful in an analysis of the profitability of the company's ongoing agency business.
 
Reconciliation of the Consolidated and Personal Insurance GAAP Combined Ratios (Excluding the Incremental Impact of the Direct to Consumer Initiative) to the Consolidated and Personal Insurance GAAP Combined Ratios
 
ADJUSTMENT TO NET WRITTEN PREMIUMS FOR THE IMPACT OF CHANGES IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES
 
Adjusting for
the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates
allows the effect of foreign exchange rate differences to be isolated in the analysis of changes in various financial statement line items that are translated from a local currency to the company's reporting currency, U.S. dollars.  The impact is determined by assuming constant foreign exchange rates between periods as illustrated in the reconciliation below.  In the opinion of the company's management, this is useful in an analysis of the results of the FP&II segment.
 
Reconciliation of the Impact of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates on FP&II Net Written Premiums to FP&II Net Written Premiums
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF CERTAIN NON-GAAP MEASURES TO BOOK VALUE PER SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
Book value per share
is total common shareholders' equity divided by the number of common shares outstanding.  is total common shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax impact of net unrealized investment gains and losses divided by the number of common shares outstanding. In the opinion of the company's management, adjusted book value is useful in an analysis of a property casualty company's book value as it removes the effect of changing prices on invested assets (i.e., net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax), which do not have an equivalent impact on unpaid claims and claim adjustment expense reserves.  is adjusted book value per share excluding the after-tax value of goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the number of common shares outstanding.  In the opinion of the company's management, tangible book value per share is useful in an analysis of a property casualty company's book value on a nominal basis
Adjusted book value per share
Tangible book value per share
 
as it removes certain effects of purchase accounting (i.e., goodwill and other intangible assets), in addition to the effect of changing prices on invested assets.
 
Reconciliation of Tangible and Adjusted Common Shareholders' Equity to Shareholders' Equity
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF CERTAIN NON-GAAP MEASURES TO TOTAL CAPITALIZATION
 
Total capitalization
is the sum of total shareholders' equity and debt.
  Debt-to-capital ratio excluding net unrealized gain (loss) on investments
is the ratio of debt to total capitalization excluding the after-tax impact of net unrealized investment gains and losses.  In the opinion of the company's management, the debt to capital ratio is useful in an analysis of the company's financial leverage.
 
Reconciliation of Total Debt and Equity Excluding Net Unrealized Investment Gain (Loss) to Total Capital
 
 
OTHER DEFINITIONS
 
Gross written premiums
reflect the direct and assumed contractually determined amounts charged to the policyholders for the effective period of the contract based on the terms and conditions of the insurance contract.  Gross written premiums are a measure of overall business volume.  reflect gross written premiums less premiums ceded to reinsurers.  These are GAAP measures.
Net written premiums
 
For the Business Insurance and Financial, Professional and International Insurance segments, is theamount of premium available for renewal that was retained, excluding rate and exposure changes. 
etention
r
 
For the Personal Insurance segment, retention is the ratio of the expected number of renewal policies that will be retained throughout the annual policy period to the number of available renewal base policies.  For all of the segments, represents the estimated change in average premium on policies that renew, excluding exposure changes.  is the amount of change in premium on policies that renew attributable to the change in portfolio risk.  represents the estimated change in average premium on policies that renew, including rate and exposure changes.  is the amount of written premium related to new policyholders and additional products to existing policyholders.  These are operating statistics, which are subject to change based upon a number of factors, including changes in actuarial estimates.
renewal
rate change
Exposure
Renewal premium change
New business volume
 
An insurance company's represents the excess of its assets over its liabilities in accordance with the statutory accounting practices required by state laws and regulations.
statutory surplus
 
Holding company liquidity
is the total cash, short-term invested assets and other readily marketable securities held by the holding company.  Holding company liquidity requirements primarily include shareholder dividends and debt service.
 
For a glossary of other financial terms used in this press release, we refer you to the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
The information included in the Financial Supplement is unaudited.  This document should be read in conjunction with the Company's Form 10-Q which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
(1)  Repurchased under Board of Director authorization.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
Adjustments to net income and weighted average shares for net income EPS calculations: (1)
 
 
(1)  Adjustments to net income and weighted average shares for net income EPS calculations can also be used for the operating income EPS calculations.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  In 1Q 2009 and 2Q 2009 "General and administrative expenses" includes $(61) million, and $(26) million respectively, of reductions in estimated hurricane-related assessments from state-created insurance and windstorm insurance entities.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  Before policyholder dividends.
(2)  Billing and policy fees, which are a component of other revenues, are allocated as a reduction of underwriting expenses.  In addition, fee income is allocated as a reduction of losses and loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses as follows:
 
 
(3)  The impact of reductions in prior year estimates of hurricane-related assessments, which is not included in the impact of catastrophes or prior year reserve development on the combined ratio, is (1.2), (0.5), and (0.5) points for 1Q 2009, 2Q 2009, and YTD 3Q 2009, respectively.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  Based on 12 months of rolling net written premiums.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  In 1Q 2009, and 2Q 2009 "General and administrative expenses" includes $(26) million and $(12) million, respectively, of reductions in estimated hurricane-related assessments from state-created insurance and windstorm insurance entities.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  Before policyholder dividends.
(2)  Billing and policy fees, which are a component of other revenues, are allocated as a reduction of underwriting expenses.  In addition, fee income is allocated as a reduction of losses and loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses as follows:
 
 
(3)  The impact of reductions in prior year estimates of hurricane-related assessments, which is not included in the impact of catastrophes or prior year reserve development on the combined ratio, is (0.9), (0.4), and (0.5) points for 1Q 2009, 2Q 2009, and YTD 3Q 2009, respectively.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  Includes new and renewal business.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  In 1Q 2009 "General and administrative expenses" includes $(1) million of reductions in estimated hurricane-related assessments from state-created insurance and windstorm insurance entities.
 
(2)  In 4Q 2009 and 3Q 2010 "Catastrophes, net of reinsurance" includes a net benefit from re-estimation of current year catastrophe losses.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  Before policyholder dividends.
 
(2)  The impact of reductions in prior year estimates of hurricane-related assessments, which is not included in the impact of catastrophes or prior year reserve development on the combined ratio, is (0.1) and (0.0) for 1Q 2009 and YTD 3Q 2009, respectively.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
In 2Q 2009, results from the surety bond operation in Canada were reclassified from the "Bond & Financial Products" market to the "International" market, and from the "Fidelity & surety" product line to the "International" product line.  All prior period amounts have been restated to reflect this reclassification.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  In 1Q 2009, and 2Q 2009 "General and administrative expenses" includes $(34) million and $(14) million, respectively, of reductions in estimated hurricane-related assessments from state-created insurance and windstorm insurance entities.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  Billing and policy fees, which are a component of other revenues, are allocated as a reduction of underwriting expenses. Billing and policy fees are as follows:
 
 
(2)  The impact of reductions in prior year estimates of hurricane-related assessments, which is not included in the impact of catastrophes or prior year reserve development on the combined ratio, is (2.0), (0.8), and (0.9) points for 1Q 2009, 2Q 2009, and YTD 3Q 2009, respectively.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  Represents Automobile policies sold through agents, brokers and other intermediaries, and excludes direct to consumer.
 
(2)  Billing and policy fees, which are a component of other revenues, are allocated as a reduction of underwriting expenses. Billing and policy fees are as follows:
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  Represents Homeowners and Other Lines sold through agents, brokers and other intermediaries, and excludes direct to consumer.
 
(2)  Billing and policy fees, which are a component of other revenues, are allocated as a reduction of underwriting expenses. Billing and policy fees are as follows:
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
 
(1) Preliminary.
 
 
 
(1)  Yields are provided for those investments with an embedded book yield.
 
 
 
Fixed Maturities
Quality Characteristics (1)
 
 
(1)
         
Rated using external rating agencies or by Travelers when a public rating does not exist.  Below investment grade assets refer to securities rated "Ba" or below.
 
 
 
(1) Excludes net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax, and is adjusted for cash, receivables for investment sales, payables on investment purchases and accrued investment income.
 
 
 
 
(1)    In 4Q 2009, the Company sold a portion of its common stock holdings in Verisk Analytics, Inc. (Verisk) for total proceeds of approximately $184 million as part of the initial public offering of Verisk. The Company recorded a pretax realized investment gain of $159 million (included in the "Other" category above) on the sale in 4Q 2009. In 3Q 2010, the Company sold most of its remaining common stock holdings in Verisk for total proceeds of approximately $230 million as part of the secondary public offering of Verisk. The Company recorded a pretax realized investment gain of $205 million on this sale in 3Q 2010 ($102 million included in the "Equity securities" and $103 million included in the "Other investments" categories above).
       
(2)    Includes the following gross investment gains and gross investment losses related to U.S. Treasury futures, which are settled daily:
 
 
The Company entered into these arrangements as part of its strategy to shorten the duration of the fixed maturity portfolio.  In a changing interest rate environment, the change in the value of the futures contracts can be
expected to partially offset changes in the value of the fixed maturity portfolio.
 
 
 
The Company's top five reinsurer groups, including retroactive reinsurance, by reinsurance recoverable is as follows:
 
 
The gross reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses represent the current and estimated future amounts due from reinsurers on known and unasserted claims.  The ceded reserves are estimated in a manner consistent with the underlying direct and assumed reserves.  Although this total comprises recoverables due from nearly one thousand different reinsurance entities, about half is attributable to 10 reinsurer groups.
 
The net reinsurance recoverables reflect an allowance for uncollectible reinsurance that is based upon the Company's ongoing review of amounts outstanding, reinsurer solvency, the Company's experience, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors.  Of the total net recoverables due from reinsurers at September 30, 2010, after deducting mandatory pools and associations and structured settlement balances, $5.6 billion, or 79%, were rated by A.M. Best Company.  Of the total rated by A.M. Best Company, 98% were rated A- or better.  The remaining 21% net recoverables from reinsurers were comprised of the following:  5% related to the Company's participation in voluntary pools, 10% related to recoverables from captive insurance companies and 6% were balances from other companies not rated by A.M. Best Company.  In addition, $2.2 billion of the net recoverables were collateralized by letters of credit, funds held and trust agreements at September 30, 2010.
 
The mandatory pools and associations represent various involuntary assigned risk pools that the Company is required to participate in.  These pools principally involve workers' compensation and automobile insurance, which provide various insurance coverages to insureds that otherwise are unable to purchase coverage in the open market.  The costs of these mandatory pools in most states are usually charged back to the participating members in proportion to voluntary writings of related business in that state.  In the event that a member of the pool becomes insolvent, the remaining members assume an additional pro rata share of the pool's liabilities.
 
The structured settlements represent recoverables from annuities that were purchased from life insurance companies to settle personal physical injury claims, with workers' compensation claims comprising a significant proportion.  In cases where the Company did not receive a release from the claimant, the Company retains the liability to the claimant in the event that the life insurance company fails to pay; accordingly, the Company continues to report the amount due from the life insurance company as a liability and as a recoverable for GAAP purposes.
 
The Company's top five groups by structured settlement is as follows:
 
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  Redeemable anytime with "make-whole" premium.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1) Estimated and Preliminary
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following measures are used by the Company's management to evaluate financial performance against historical results and establish targets on a consolidated basis.  In some cases, these measures are considered non-GAAP financial measures under applicable SEC rules because they are not displayed as separate line items in the consolidated financial statements or are not required to be disclosed in the notes to financial statements or, in some cases, include or exclude certain items not ordinarily included or excluded in the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
 
In the opinion of the Company's management, a discussion of these measures provides investors, financial analysts, rating agencies and other financial statement users with a better understanding of the significant factors that comprise the Company's periodic results of operations and how management evaluates the Company's financial performance.  Internally, the Company's management uses these measures to evaluate performance against historical results and establish financial targets on a consolidated basis.
 
Some of these measures exclude net realized gains (losses), net of tax, and/or net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax, which can be significantly impacted by both discretionary and other economic factors and are not necessarily indicative of operating trends.
 
Other companies may calculate these measures differently, and, therefore, their measures may not be comparable to those used by the Company's management.
 
Operating income (loss)
is net income (loss) excluding the after-tax impact of net realized investment gains (losses).  Management uses operating income to analyze each segment's performance and as a tool in making business decisions.  Financial statement users also consider operating income when analyzing the results and trends of insurance companies.  is operating income (loss) on a per common share basis.
Operating earnings (loss) per share
 
Average shareholders' equity
is (a) the sum of total shareholders' equity excluding preferred stock at the beginning and end of each of the quarters for the period presented divided by (b) the number of quarters in the period presented times two.  is shareholders' equity excluding net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax, net realized investment gains (losses), net of tax, for the period presented and preferred stock.  is average shareholders' equity excluding net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax, for all quarters included in the calculation and, for each quarterly period included in the calculation that quarter's net realized investment gains (losses), net of tax.
Adjusted shareholders' equity
Adjusted average shareholders' equity
 
Return on equity
is the ratio of annualized net income (loss) less preferred dividends to average shareholders' equity for the periods presented  is the ratio of annualized operating income (loss) less preferred dividends to adjusted average shareholders' equity for the periods presented.  In the opinion of the Company's management, these are important indicators of how well management creates value for its shareholders through its operating activities and its capital management.
.
Operating return on equity
 
Underwriting gain (loss)
is net earned premiums and fee income less claims and claim adjustment expenses and insurance-related expenses.  In the opinion of the Company's management, it is important to measure the profitability of each segment excluding the results of investing activities, which are managed separately from the insurance business.  This measure is used to assess each segment's business performance and as a tool in making business decisions.
 
A is a severe loss, resulting from natural and man-made events, including risks such as fire, earthquake, windstorm, explosion, terrorism and other similar events.  Each catastrophe has unique characteristics, and catastrophes are not predictable as to timing or amount.  Their effects are included in net and operating income and claims and claim adjustment expense reserves upon occurrence.  A catastrophe may result in the payment of reinsurance reinstatement premiums and assessments from various pools.  In the opinion of the Company's management, a discussion of the impact of catastrophes is meaningful to users of the financial statements to understand the Company's periodic earnings and the variability in periodic earnings caused by the unpredictable nature of catastrophes.
catastrophe
 
Net favorable (unfavorable) prior year loss reserve development
is the increase or decrease in incurred claims and claim adjustment expenses as a result of the re-estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at successive valuation dates for a given group of claims.  Loss reserve development may be related to one or more prior years or the current year.  In the opinion of the Company's management, a discussion of loss reserve development is meaningful to users of the financial statements as it allows them to assess the impact between prior and current year development on incurred claims and claim adjustment expenses, net and operating income, and changes in claims and claim adjustment expense reserve levels from period to period.
 
GAAP combined ratio
is the sum of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio (loss and LAE ratio) and the underwriting expense ratio.  For GAAP, the loss and LAE ratio is the ratio of incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses reduced by an allocation of fee income to net earned premiums.  The underwriting expense ratio is the ratio of underwriting expenses incurred reduced by an allocation of fee income, and billing and policy fees to net earned premiums. A GAAP combined ratio under 100% generally indicates an underwriting profit. A GAAP combined ratio over 100% generally indicates an underwriting loss. The GAAP combined ratio is an operating statistic that includes GAAP measures in the numerator and the denominator.
 
GAAP combined ratio excluding the incremental impact of the direct to consumer initiative
is the GAAP combined ratio adjusted to exclude the direct, variable impact of the company's direct-to-consumer initiative in Personal Insurance.  In the opinion of the company's management, this is useful in an analysis of the profitability of the company's ongoing agency business.
 
Gross written premiums
reflect the direct and assumed contractually determined amounts charged to the policyholders for the effective period of the contract based on the terms and conditions of the insurance contract.  Gross written premiums are a measure of overall business volume.  reflect gross written premiums less premiums ceded to reinsurers.
Net written premiums
 
Book value per share
is total common shareholders' equity divided by the number of common shares outstanding.  is total common shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax impact of net unrealized investment gains and losses, divided by the number of common shares outstanding. In the opinion of the Company's management, adjusted book value is useful in an analysis of a property casualty company's book value as it removes the effect of changing prices on invested assets, (i.e., net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax) which do not have an equivalent impact on unpaid claims and claim adjustment expense reserves.
Adjusted book value per share
 
Total capital
is the sum of total shareholders' equity and debt. is the ratio of debt to total capital excluding the after-tax impact of net unrealized investment gains and losses.  In the opinion of the company's management, the debt to capital ratio is useful in an analysis of the company's financial leverage.
 Debt-to-capital ratio excluding net unrealized gain (loss) on investments
 
Statutory surplus
represents the excess of an insurance company's assets over its liabilities in accordance with the statutory accounting practices required by state laws and regulations.
 
Travelers has organized its businesses into the following reportable business segments:
 
Business Insurance -
The Business Insurance segment offers a broad array of property and casualty insurance and insurance-related services to its clients primarily in the United States.  Business Insurance is organized into the following six groups, which collectively comprise Business Insurance Core operations: Select Accounts; Commercial Accounts; National Accounts; Industry-Focused Underwriting including Construction, Technology, Public Sector Services, Oil & Gas, and Agribusiness; Target Risk Underwriting including National Property, Inland Marine, Ocean Marine, Excess Casualty, Boiler & Machinery, and Global Accounts; and Specialized Distribution including Northland and National Programs.  Business Insurance also includes the Special Liability Group (which manages the Company's asbestos and environmental liabilities) and the assumed reinsurance, and certain international and other runoff operations, which collectively are referred to as Business Insurance Other.
 
Financial, Professional & International Insurance
- The Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment includes surety and management liability coverages, which require a primarily credit-based underwriting process, as well as property and casualty products that are primarily marketed on a domestic basis in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Canada, and on an international basis through Lloyd's.  The businesses in Financial, Professional & International Insurance are Bond & Financial Products and International.
 
Personal Insurance
- The Personal Insurance segment writes virtually all types of property and casualty insurance covering personal risks.  The primary coverages in this segment are personal automobile and homeowners insurance sold to individuals.


