FILE:TRV/TRV-8K-20110125063930.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On January 25, 2011, The Travelers Companies, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the results of the Company's operations for the quarter ended December 31, 2010, and the availability of the Company's fourth quarter financial supplement on the Company's web site.  The press release and the financial supplement are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report and are hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.
 
As provided in General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information and exhibits contained in this Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall they be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
            
Fourth quarter net and operating income of $894 million and $864 million, respectively, compared to $1.285 billion and $1.155 billion in prior year.
 
            
Full year total revenues of $25.112 billion up 2 percent and fourth quarter total revenues of $6.332 billion down 2 percent from prior year.
 
            
Full year and fourth quarter net written premiums of $21.635 billion and $5.234 billion, respectively, both up 1 percent from prior year.
 
            
Repurchased 28.9 million common shares in fourth quarter for $1.6 billion and 95.7 million common shares in full year for $5.0 billion.
 
NEW YORK, January 25, 2011
 The Travelers Companies, Inc. ("Travelers," NYSE: TRV) today reported fourth quarter and full year 2010 results.
 
"Our strong full year results, which we achieved notwithstanding recording more than twice the level of last year's catastrophe losses, demonstrate Travelers' superior risk selection skills and sophisticated pricing analytics,"  commented Jay Fishman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.  "That same approach to risk and reward has also driven the consistently strong performance and lower volatility of our high credit quality investment portfolio.
 
"In addition, we were pleased with our fourth quarter results, which were down from a record fourth quarter in the prior year.  The prior year quarter benefited from substantially higher favorable prior year reserve development, a reduction of the full year 2009 loss ratio recognized in the fourth quarter of 2009 and lower catastrophe losses.
 
"We are encouraged by a number of positive changes in the operating environment during the fourth quarter across our diversified commercial insurance businesses. Exposures increased for the first time since the third quarter of 2008, and, in the
aggregate, the pricing environment was modestly better than in the third quarter. Overall, the fourth quarter renewal rate change was flat. Within Personal Insurance, renewal premium change was a solid 6 percent and policies in force once again grew across both our Automobile and Homeowners lines of business.
 
"Given recent experience, we are more optimistic about an improvement in the operating environment in 2011 than we were in previous quarters. We anticipate that exposures will improve from 2010 levels, and we are hopeful that the pricing environment will continue to improve. Nonetheless, we expect a modest increase in the consolidated loss ratio in 2011, excluding catastrophes and prior year reserve development.  Furthermore, while interest rates have recently risen above their historic lows of the third quarter 2010, we continue to anticipate a modest decline in net investment income from our fixed income portfolio due to reinvesting proceeds from maturing fixed-income securities at lower rates.  Our capital management philosophy remains unchanged and we are strategically committed to continuing to return excess capital to shareholders," concluded Fishman.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures for definitions and the statistical supplement for additional financial data.
The current and prior year quarters included the following:
 
 
Operating income of $864 million after-tax in the current quarter decreased $291 million from the prior year quarter primarily due to a $237 million after-tax decrease in the underwriting gain and $9 million after-tax decrease in net investment income. Operating income in the current quarter was also impacted by expenses of $39 million after-tax related to the company's purchase and retirement of $885 million of its $1 billion 6.25 percent fixed-to-floating rate junior subordinated debentures as the company issued $1.250 billion in new debt in a combination of 10 and 30-year senior notes given the extremely low interest rate environment.
 
The decrease in the underwriting gain in the current quarter reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 90.6 percent, as compared to 83.4 percent in the prior year quarter.  This increase of 7.2 points in the combined ratio was primarily driven by a $154 million pre-tax decrease in net favorable prior year reserve development (increase of 3.0 points) and a $70 million pre-tax increase in catastrophe losses primarily due to hail and wind storms in Arizona (increase of 1.2 points). The prior year quarter combined ratio also reflected the benefit of 1.5 points from the re-estimation of 2009 loss ratios for the first three quarters of 2009.
 
The current quarter underwriting gain excluding net favorable prior year reserve development and catastrophe losses reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 95.5 percent, as compared to 94.0 percent in the prior year quarter which also excludes the re-estimation of 2009 loss ratios for the first three quarters of 2009.  This increase of 1.5 points was primarily due to the impact of reduced underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends in Business Insurance and higher non-catastrophe weather-related losses.
 
After-tax net investment income decreased slightly from the prior year quarter due to lower average invested assets and lower reinvestment rates in the fixed income portfolio, despite significantly higher returns in the non-fixed income portfolio.  Net realized investment gains were $30 million after-tax ($44 million pre-tax) in the current quarter, compared to $130 million after-tax ($189 million pre-tax) in the prior quarter. The prior year quarter's net realized investment gains included $103 million after-tax ($159 million pre-tax) from the sale of a portion of the company's common stock holdings in Verisk Analytics, Inc.
 
Net written premiums of $5.234 billion in the current quarter increased 1 percent from the prior year quarter.  Retention rates and new business remained strong, while renewal rate changes remained positive in both Personal Insurance and Financial, Professional & International Insurance and slightly negative in Business Insurance.
 
"This was an active quarter for capital management," commented Jay S. Benet, Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer. "Given the extremely low interest rate environment, we issued $500 million of 10-year senior notes at 3.90 percent and $750 million of 30-year senior notes at 5.35 percent. We also purchased and retired $885 million of our $1.0 billion fixed-to-floating rate junior subordinated debentures that carried a coupon of 6.25 percent. These actions, combined with common share repurchases of $1.6 billion in the quarter, brought our debt-to-capital ratio (excluding net unrealized investment gains) to 21.9 percent, still comfortably within our targeted range."
 
For the full year 2010, the company repurchased 95.7 million common shares for $5.0 billion and paid $670 million in common stock dividends. As a result, shareholders' equity of $25.5 billion decreased 7 percent from the year-end 2009 level and average diluted shares outstanding decreased from 569 million in 2009 to 483 million in 2010.  Shareholders' equity included after-tax net unrealized investment gains of $1.9 billion at year-end 2010, the same amount as of year-end 2009, and statutory surplus of $20.1 billion resulted in operating company capital levels that were at or above target levels.
 
Travelers' Board of Directors has authorized an additional $5.0 billion of common share repurchases.  This amount is in addition to the $1.5 billion remaining under previous authorizations as of December 31, 2010.  Repurchases may be made from time to time in the open-market, in private transactions, pursuant to pre-set trading plans meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise.  This authorization does not have a stated expiration date.  The timing and actual number of shares to be repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including corporate and regulatory requirements, price, catastrophe experience and other market conditions.
"Fourth quarter and full year 2010 Business Insurance underwriting results, excluding catastrophes and net favorable prior year reserve development, reflected the pricing and loss cost dynamics we have talked about throughout the year," commented Brian MacLean, President and Chief Operating Officer. "Loss cost trends remained benign in both the fourth quarter and full year. The pricing environment, though slightly negative, improved from the third quarter. As we look into 2011, we expect the loss cost environment to remain relatively benign and are hopeful that this recent trend in the pricing environment will continue."
 
The current and prior year quarters included the following:
 
 
Operating income in the current quarter of $624 million after-tax decreased $191 million from the prior year quarter primarily due to a $190 million after-tax decrease in the underwriting gain.
 
The decrease in the underwriting gain in the current quarter reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 90.1 percent, as compared to 78.8 percent in the prior year quarter.  This increase of 11.3 points in the combined ratio was partially due to a $112 million pre-tax decrease in net favorable prior year reserve development (increase of 4.3 points) and a $51 million pre-tax increase in catastrophe losses primarily due to hail and wind storms in Arizona (increase of 1.9 points). The prior year quarter combined ratio also reflected the benefit of 3.3 points from the re-estimation of 2009 loss ratios for the first three quarters of 2009.  The net favorable prior year reserve development in the current quarter primarily resulted from better than expected loss experience in the workers' compensation, property and general liability product lines across multiple accident years as well as in assumed reinsurance, which is in runoff.
The current quarter underwriting gain excluding net favorable prior year reserve development and catastrophe losses reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 96.8 percent, as compared to 95.0 percent in the prior year quarter which also excludes the re-estimation of 2009 loss ratios for the first three quarters of 2009.  This increase of 1.8 points was primarily due to the impact of reduced underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends.
 
Business Insurance net written premiums of $2.577 billion in the current quarter increased 2 percent from the prior year quarter.  The impact of general economic conditions on exposure changes at renewal, audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid-term cancellations, while slightly negative, improved from recent quarters.  Retention rates remained strong and generally consistent with recent quarters. The impact of renewal rate change was slightly negative, while new business volumes were strong and higher than the prior year quarter.
 
Select Accounts
 
            
Net written premiums of $636 million approximated the prior year quarter.
            
Retention rates were strong and increased from recent quarters.
            
Renewal premium change remained positive, but decreased from recent quarters.
            
New business volumes increased from the prior year quarter due to continued strong volumes from Travelers
Express
SM
, the company's enhanced quote-to-issue agency platform and multivariate pricing program for smaller businesses, and increased volumes in larger accounts served by Select.
 
Commercial Accounts
 
            
Net written premiums of $634 million increased 4 percent from the prior year quarter.
            
Retention rates remained very strong.
            
Renewal premium change was positive for the first time since first quarter 2007.
            
New business volumes were strong and increased modestly from the prior year quarter.
 
National Accounts
 
                 
Net written premiums of $213 million decreased 3 percent from the prior year quarter due to reduced insured exposures driven by general economic conditions, partially offset by increased new business volumes and strong retention rates.
 
Industry-Focused Underwriting
 
            
Net written premiums of $556 million increased 8 percent from the prior year quarter largely due to changes in ceded reinsurance within the Technology and Oil & Gas business units.
 
Target Risk Underwriting
 
            
Net written premiums of $350 million increased 7 percent from the prior year quarter primarily due to improving market conditions in the Inland Marine business unit and changes in ceded reinsurance in the National Property business unit.
 
Specialized Distribution
 
            
Net written premiums of $188 million decreased 6 percent from the prior year quarter primarily due to lower new business volumes in the Northland business unit.
 
"Financial, Professional & International results reflected lower net favorable prior year reserve development as compared to the prior year quarter," commented MacLean. "Underlying margins remained generally stable as earned rate increases were consistent with loss cost trends. We are excited about our recently announced joint venture with J. Malucelli Participaes em Seguros e Resseguros S.A., Brazil's market leader in the surety business, and the opportunity it provides to enter the growing property and casualty market in Brazil. We expect to complete the transaction in the first half of 2011."
The current and prior year quarters included the following:
 
 
Operating income in the current quarter of $150 million after-tax decreased $44 million from the prior year quarter primarily due to a $34 million after-tax decrease in the underwriting gain and an $11 million after-tax decrease in net investment income.
 
The decrease in underwriting results in the current quarter reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 89.2 percent, as compared to 83.1 percent in the prior year quarter.  This increase of 6.1 points in the combined ratio was driven by a $64 million pre-tax decrease in net favorable prior year reserve development (increase of 7.1 points).  The net favorable prior year reserve development in the current quarter resulted primarily from better than expected loss experience in the fidelity & surety line of business within Bond & Financial Products and across various lines of business in International.
 
The current quarter underwriting gain excluding net favorable prior year reserve development and catastrophes reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 96.6 percent, consistent with the prior year quarter which also excludes the re-estimation of 2009 loss ratios for the first three quarters of 2009. The current quarter combined ratio was unfavorably impacted by non-catastrophe weather-related losses in Ireland and Australia as well as lower volume primarily in the surety business in Bond & Financial Products. The prior year quarter combined ratio was unfavorably impacted by losses on a non-renewed professional liability program in Ireland.
 
Financial, Professional & International Insurance net written premiums of $833 million decreased 11 percent from the prior year quarter. The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates had a negligible effect in the quarter.
Retention rates, renewal premium changes and new business volumes, as discussed below, exclude the surety line of business as surety products are sold on a non-recurring, project-specific basis.
 
Bond & Financial Products
 
           
Net written premiums of $513 million decreased 11 percent from the prior year quarter, primarily reflecting lower business volumes in construction surety due to the continued slowdown in construction spending.
            
Retention rates remained strong.
            
Renewal premium change was modestly negative, consistent with recent quarters.
            
New business volumes decreased slightly from the prior year quarter.
 
International
 
            
Net written premiums of $320 million decreased 12 percent from the prior year quarter.
            
Retention rates continued to be impacted by intentional underwriting actions taken at the company's operation at Lloyd's and the termination of an exclusive relationship with a distribution partner in Ireland.
            
Renewal premium change was positive and slightly improved from recent quarters.
            
New business volumes decreased from the prior year quarter primarily in Ireland and the company's operation at Lloyd's.
 
 
"Personal Insurance continued to produce strong underwriting results, despite the normal seasonal impact from Automobile losses," commented MacLean. "For the year, earned rate increases outpaced loss cost trends across the segment. We were pleased with our strong production results in the quarter as evidenced by continued growth in policies in force, high retention rates, positive renewal premium change and solid new business.  We believe this momentum in production, in combination with our highly sophisticated risk management, claim and analytical capabilities, positions us well for continued growth in the future."
The current and prior year quarters included the following:
 
 
Operating income in the current quarter of $194 million after-tax decreased $16 million from the prior year quarter primarily due to a $13 million after-tax decrease in underwriting results.
 
The decrease in underwriting results in the current quarter reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 92.1 percent, as compared to 90.4 percent in the prior year quarter.  This increase of 1.7 points in the combined ratio included a $21 million pre-tax increase in catastrophe losses primarily due to hail and wind storms in Arizona (increase of 1.1 points), offset by a $22 million pre-tax increase in net favorable prior year reserve development (improvement of 1.2 points).  The net favorable prior year reserve development in the current quarter resulted primarily from better than expected loss experience in Homeowners and Other.
 
The current quarter underwriting results excluding net favorable prior year reserve development and catastrophe losses reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 93.0 percent, as compared to 91.2 percent in the prior year quarter. This increase of 1.8 points was primarily due to higher non-catastrophe weather-related losses and higher expenses related to the company's direct to consumer initiative.
 
Personal Insurance net written premiums of $1.824 billion increased 5 percent from the prior year quarter, including the company's direct to consumer initiative and the change to 12-month policy terms in certain markets within Automobile.  Adjusting for the change to 12-month policy terms, net written premiums increased 4 percent due to continued positive renewal premium changes, strong retention rates and new business growth.
 
Agency Automobile and Agency Homeowners and Other, as discussed below, represent business sold through agents, brokers and other intermediaries and exclude direct to consumer.
Agency Automobile
 
            
Net written premiums of $888 million increased 4 percent from the prior year quarter. Adjusting for the change to 12-month policy terms, net written premiums increased 2 percent from the prior year quarter.
            
Policies in force continued to increase, up 2 percent from the prior year quarter.
            
Retention rates were strong and renewal premium change remained positive.
            
New business volumes increased from the prior year quarter.
 
Agency Homeowners and Other
 
            
Net written premiums of $910 million increased 6 percent from the prior year quarter.
            
Policies in force continued to increase, up 3 percent from the prior year quarter.
            
Retention rates were strong and renewal premium change remained positive.
            
New business volumes decreased slightly from the prior year quarter.
 
The current and prior years included the following:
 
 
Operating income of $3.043 billion after-tax in the current year decreased $557 million from the prior year primarily due to a $633 million after-tax decrease in the underwriting gain resulting from significantly higher catastrophe losses, partially offset by a $178 million after-tax increase in net investment income.
 
The decrease in the underwriting gain in the current year reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 93.2 percent, as compared to 89.2 percent in the prior year.  This increase of 4.0 points in the combined ratio was primarily driven by a $656 million pre-tax increase in catastrophe losses (increase of 3.1 points) and an $82 million pre-tax decrease in net favorable prior year reserve development (increase of 0.4 points).
 
The current year underwriting gain excluding net favorable prior year reserve development and catastrophe losses reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 93.8 percent, as compared to 93.3 percent in the prior year. This increase of 0.5 points reflected reduced underwriting margins related to pricing and loss cost trends in Business Insurance, partially offset by earned rate increases modestly outpacing loss cost trends in Personal Insurance.
 
Financial Supplement and Conference Call
 
The information in this press release should be read in conjunction with a financial supplement that is available on our website at www.travelers.com.  Travelers management will discuss the contents of this release and other relevant topics via webcast at 9 a.m. Eastern (8 a.m. Central) on Tuesday, January 25, 2011.  Prior to the webcast, a slide presentation pertaining to the quarterly earnings will be available on the company's website.  Following the live event, an audio playback of the webcast and the slide presentation will be available on the company's website.
 
To view the slides or to listen to the webcast or the playback, visit the "Webcasts & Presentations" section of the Travelers investor relations website at http://investor.travelers.com.
 
About Travelers
 
The Travelers Companies, Inc. (NYSE: TRV) is a leading provider of property casualty insurance for auto, home and business.  A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, Travelers has more than 30,000 employees. For more information, visit www.travelers.com.
 
From time to time, Travelers may use its website as a channel of distribution of material company information. Financial and other material information regarding the company is routinely posted on and accessible at http://investor.travelers.com.  In addition, you may automatically receive email alerts and other information about Travelers by enrolling your email by visiting the "Email Alert Service" section at http://investor.travelers.com.
 
Travelers has organized its businesses into the following reportable business segments:
 
Business Insurance
: The Business Insurance segment offers a broad array of property and casualty insurance and insurance-related services to its clients primarily in the United States.  Business Insurance is organized into the following six groups, which collectively comprise Business Insurance Core operations: Select Accounts; Commercial Accounts; National Accounts; Industry-Focused Underwriting including Construction, Technology, Public Sector Services, Oil & Gas and Agribusiness; Target Risk Underwriting including National Property, Inland Marine, Ocean Marine, Excess Casualty, Boiler & Machinery and Global Accounts; and Specialized Distribution including Northland and National Programs.  Business Insurance also includes the Special Liability Group (which manages the company's asbestos and environmental liabilities) and the assumed reinsurance and certain international and other runoff operations, which collectively are referred to as Business Insurance Other.
 
Financial, Professional & International Insurance
: The Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment includes surety and management liability coverages, which require a primarily credit-based underwriting process, as well as property and casualty products that are primarily marketed on a domestic basis in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Canada, and on an international basis through Lloyd's.  The businesses in Financial, Professional & International Insurance are Bond & Financial Products and International.
 
Personal Insurance
: The Personal Insurance segment writes virtually all types of property and casualty insurance covering personal risks.  The primary coverages in this segment are automobile and homeowners insurance sold to individuals.
 
Forward-Looking Statement
 
This press release contains, and management may make, certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  All statements, other than statements of historical facts, may be forward-looking statements. Words such as "may", "will", "should", "likely", "anticipates", "expects", "intends", "plans", "projects", "believes", "estimates" and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements.  Specifically statements about the company's share repurchase plans and statements about the potential impact of investment markets and other economic conditions on the company's investment portfolio and underwriting results, among others, are forward looking, and the company may also make forward-looking statements about, among other things:
 
                 
its results of operations and financial condition (including, among other things, premium volume, premium rates, net and operating income, investment income and performance, return on equity, and expected current returns and combined ratios);
                 
the sufficiency of the company's asbestos and other reserves (including, among other things, asbestos claim payment patterns);
                 
the impact of emerging claims issues;
                 
the cost and availability of reinsurance coverage;
                 
catastrophe losses;
                 
the impact of investment, economic and underwriting market conditions;
                 
strategic initiatives; and
                 
the company's proposed joint venture with J. Malucelli Participaes em Seguros e Resseguros S.A.
 
The company cautions investors that such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the company's control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements.
 
Some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
                 
catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations, its financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact the company's ratings, the company's ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance;
                 
during or following a period of financial market disruption or prolonged economic downturn, the company's business could be materially and adversely affected;
                 
the company's investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or material losses, including as a result of a challenging economic environment that impacts the credit of municipal or other issuers in our portfolio;
                 
if actual claims exceed the company's loss reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of loss reserves are necessary, the company's financial results could be materially and adversely affected;
                 
the company's business could be harmed because of its potential exposure to asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation;
                 
the company is exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances;
                 
the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on the company's business are uncertain;
                 
the intense competition that the company faces could harm its ability to maintain or increase its business volumes and profitability;
                 
the company may not be able to collect all amounts due to it from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to the company in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all;
                 
the company is exposed to credit risk in certain of its business operations;
                 
the company's businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation (including as a result of the adoption of financial services reform legislation) may reduce the company's profitability and limit its growth;
                 
a downgrade in the company's claims-paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact the company's business volumes, adversely impact the company's ability to access the capital markets and increase the company's borrowing costs;
                 
the inability of the company's insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to the company's holding company in sufficient amounts would harm the company's ability to meet its obligations and to pay future shareholder dividends;
                 
disruptions to the company's relationships with its independent agents and brokers could adversely affect the company;
                 
the company's efforts to develop new products (including its direct to consumer initiative in Personal Insurance) or expand in targeted markets may not be successful, may create enhanced risks and may adversely impact results;
                 
the company's business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology;
                 
if the company experiences difficulties with technology, data security and/or outsourcing relationships the company's ability to conduct its business could be negatively impacted;
                 
acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties and other unintended consequences;
                 
the company is subject to a number of risks associated with conducting business outside the United States, particularly in emerging markets;
                 
the company could be adversely affected if its controls to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective;
                 
the company's businesses may be adversely affected if it is unable to hire and retain qualified employees;
                 
loss of or significant restriction on the use of credit scoring in the pricing and underwriting of Personal Insurance products could reduce the company's future profitability;
                 
the operation of the company's repurchase plans depend on a variety of factors, including the company's financial position, earnings, capital requirements of the company's operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, catastrophe losses, other investment opportunities (including mergers and acquisitions), market conditions and other factors; and
                 
the company's proposed joint venture with J. Malucelli Participaes em Seguros e Resseguros S.A. is subject to the risk that conditions to closing, including regulatory approvals, are not satisfied and the risk that the company may not obtain the expected benefits from the transaction.
 
Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release or as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements.  For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the information under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
The following measures are used by the company's management to evaluate financial performance against historical results and establish targets on a consolidated basis.  In some cases, these measures are considered non-GAAP financial measures under applicable SEC rules because they are not displayed as separate line items in the consolidated financial statements or are not required to be disclosed in the notes to financial statements or, in some cases, include or exclude certain items not ordinarily included or excluded in the most comparable GAAP financial measure. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to their most directly comparable GAAP measures also follows.
 
In the opinion of the company's management, a discussion of these measures provides investors, financial analysts, rating agencies and other financial statement users with a better understanding of the significant factors that comprise the company's periodic results of operations and how management
evaluates the company's financial performance.  Internally, the company's management uses these measures to evaluate performance against historical results, to establish financial targets on a consolidated basis and for other reasons, which are discussed below.
 
Some of these measures exclude net realized investment gains (losses), net of tax, and/or net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax, which can be significantly impacted by both discretionary and other economic factors and are not necessarily indicative of operating trends.
 
Other companies may calculate these measures differently, and, therefore, their measures may not be comparable to those used by the company's management.
 
RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME AND CERTAIN OTHER NON-GAAP MEASURES TO NET INCOME
 
Operating income (loss)
is net income (loss) excluding the after-tax impact of net realized investment gains (losses) and discontinued operations.  Management uses operating income to analyze each segment's performance and as a tool in making business decisions.  Financial statement users also consider operating income when analyzing the results and trends of insurance companies.  is operating income (loss) on a per common share basis.
Operating earnings (loss) per share
 
Reconciliation of Operating Income less Preferred Dividends and Net Income less Preferred Dividends to Net Income
Reconciliation of Operating Earnings per Share to Net Income per Share on a Basic and Diluted Basis
 
Reconciliation of Operating Income by Segment to Total Operating Income
 
RECONCILIATION OF ADJUSTED SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY TO SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND OPERATING RETURN ON EQUITY TO RETURN ON EQUITY
 
Average shareholders' equity
is (a) the sum of total shareholders' equity excluding preferred stock at the beginning and end of each of the quarters for the period presented divided by (b) the number of quarters in the period presented times two. is shareholders' equity excluding net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax, net realized investment gains (losses), net of tax, for the period presented, preferred stock and discontinued operations.  is average shareholders' equity excluding net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax, for all quarters included in the calculation and, for each quarterly period included in the calculation, that quarter's net realized investment gains (losses), net of tax.
  Adjusted shareholders' equity
Adjusted average shareholders' equity
 
Reconciliation of Adjusted Shareholders' Equity to Shareholders' Equity
 
Return on equity
is the ratio of annualized net income (loss) less preferred dividends to average shareholders' equity for the periods presented.  is the ratio of annualized operating income (loss) less preferred dividends to adjusted average shareholders' equity for the periods presented.  In the opinion of the company's management, these are important indicators of how well management creates value for its shareholders through its operating activities and its capital management.
Operating return on equity
 
Calculation of Operating Return on Equity and Return on Equity
 
Average annual operating return on equity
over a period is the ratio of:
a) the sum of operating income (loss) less preferred dividends for the periods presented to
b) the sum of: 1) the sum of the adjusted average shareholders' equity for all full years in the period presented, and 2) for partial years in the period presented, the number of quarters in that partial year divided by four, multiplied by the adjusted average shareholders' equity of the partial year.
 
Calculation of Average Annual Operating Return on Equity from January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2010
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF PRE-TAX UNDERWRITING GAIN EXCLUDING CERTAIN ITEMS TO NET INCOME
 
Underwriting gain
is net earned premiums and fee income less claims and claim adjustment expenses and insurance-related expenses.  In the opinion of the company's management, it is important to measure the profitability of each segment excluding the results of investing activities, which are managed separately from the insurance business.  This measure is used to assess each segment's business performance and as a tool in making business decisions.  , is the underwriting gain adjusted to exclude claims, claim adjustment expenses, and reinstatement premiums and assessments related to catastrophes and loss reserve development related to time periods prior to the current quarter.  In the opinion of the company's management, this measure is meaningful to users of the financial statements to understand the
Pre-tax
underwriting gain, excluding the impact of catastrophes, net favorable (unfavorable) prior year loss reserve development and the re-estimation of current year loss ratios
 
company's periodic earnings and the variability of earnings caused by the unpredictable nature (i.e., the timing and amount) of catastrophes and loss reserve development.
 
A is a severe loss, resulting from natural and man-made events, including risks such as fire, earthquake, windstorm, explosion, terrorism and other similar events.  Each catastrophe has unique characteristics, and catastrophes are not predictable as to timing or amount.  Their effects are included in net and operating income and claims and claim adjustment expense reserves upon occurrence.  A catastrophe may result in the payment of reinsurance reinstatement premiums and assessments from various pools.  In the opinion of the company's management, a discussion of the impact of catastrophes is meaningful to users of the financial statements to understand the company's periodic earnings and the variability in periodic earnings caused by the unpredictable nature of catastrophes.
catastrophe
 
Net favorable (unfavorable) prior year loss reserve development
is the increase or decrease in incurred claims and claim adjustment expenses as a result of the re-estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at successive valuation dates for a given group of claims, which may be related to one or more prior years. is underlying loss trend development in the current year related to time periods prior to the current quarter.  In the opinion of the company's management, a discussion of loss reserve development is meaningful to users of the financial statements as it allows them to assess the impact between prior and current year development on incurred claims and claim adjustment expenses, net and operating income, and changes in claims and claim adjustment expense reserve levels from period to period.
Re-estimation of current year loss ratios
 
Reconciliation of Pre-tax Underwriting Gain (Excluding the Impact of Catastrophes, Net Favorable Prior Year Loss Reserve Development and Re-Estimation of Current Year Loss Ratios) to Net Income
 
 
ADJUSTMENT TO THE GAAP COMBINED RATIO FOR THE INCREMENTAL IMPACT OF THE DIRECT TO CONSUMER INITIATIVE
 
GAAP combined ratio
is the sum of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio (loss and LAE ratio) and the underwriting expense ratio.  For GAAP, the loss and LAE ratio is the ratio of incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses reduced by an allocation of fee income to net earned premiums.  The underwriting expense ratio is the ratio of underwriting expenses incurred reduced by an allocation of fee income, and billing and policy fees to net earned premiums.  A GAAP combined ratio under 100% generally indicates an underwriting profit.  A GAAP combined ratio over 100% generally indicates an underwriting loss.  The GAAP combined ratio is an operating statistic that includes GAAP measures in the numerator and the denominator.
Calculation of the GAAP Combined Ratio
 
 
(1)  For purposes of computing GAAP ratios, billing and policy fees (which are a component  of other revenues) are allocated as a reduction of other underwriting expenses.  In addition, fee income is allocated as a reduction of losses and loss adjustment expense and other underwriting expenses.
 
GAAP combined ratio excluding the incremental impact of the direct to consumer initiative
is the GAAP combined ratio adjusted to exclude the direct, variable impact of the company's direct-to-consumer initiative in Personal Insurance.  In the opinion of the company's management, this is useful in an analysis of the profitability of the company's ongoing agency business.
 
Reconciliation of the Consolidated and Personal Insurance GAAP Combined Ratios (Excluding the Incremental Impact of the Direct to Consumer Initiative) to the Consolidated and Personal Insurance GAAP Combined Ratios
 
ADJUSTMENT TO NET WRITTEN PREMIUMS FOR THE IMPACT OF CHANGES IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES
 
Adjusting for
the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates
allows the effect of foreign exchange rate differences to be isolated in the analysis of changes in various financial statement line items that are translated from a local currency to the company's reporting currency, U.S. dollars.  The impact is determined by assuming constant foreign exchange rates between periods as illustrated in the reconciliation below.  In the opinion of the company's management, this is useful in an analysis of the results of the FP&II segment.
 
Reconciliation of the Impact of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates on FP&II Net Written Premiums to FP&II Net Written Premiums
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF CERTAIN NON-GAAP MEASURES TO BOOK VALUE PER SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
Book value per share
is total common shareholders' equity divided by the number of common shares outstanding.  is total common shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax impact of net unrealized investment gains and losses divided by the number of common shares outstanding. In the opinion of the company's management, adjusted book value is useful in an analysis of a property casualty company's book value as it removes the effect of changing prices on invested assets (i.e., net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax), which do not have an equivalent impact on unpaid claims and claim adjustment expense reserves.  is adjusted book value per share excluding the after-tax value of goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the number of common shares outstanding.  In the opinion of the company's management, tangible book value per share is useful in an analysis of a property casualty company's book value on a nominal basis as it removes certain effects of purchase accounting (i.e., goodwill and other intangible assets), in addition to the effect of changing prices on invested assets.
Adjusted book value per share
Tangible book value per share
Reconciliation of Tangible and Adjusted Common Shareholders' Equity to Shareholders' Equity
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF CERTAIN NON-GAAP MEASURES TO TOTAL CAPITALIZATION
 
Total capitalization
is the sum of total shareholders' equity and debt.
  Debt-to-capital ratio excluding net unrealized gain on investments
is the ratio of debt to total capitalization excluding the after-tax impact of net unrealized investment gains and losses.  In the opinion of the company's management, the debt to capital ratio is useful in an analysis of the company's financial leverage.
 
Reconciliation of Total Debt and Equity Excluding Net Unrealized Investment Gain to Total Capital
 
 
OTHER DEFINITIONS
 
Gross written premiums
reflect the direct and assumed contractually determined amounts charged to the policyholders for the effective period of the contract based on the terms and conditions of the insurance contract.  Gross written premiums are a measure of overall business volume.  reflect gross written premiums less premiums ceded to reinsurers.  These are GAAP measures.
Net written premiums
 
For the Business Insurance and Financial, Professional and International Insurance segments, is theamount of premium available for renewal that was retained, excluding rate and exposure changes.  For the Personal Insurance segment, retention is the ratio of the expected number of renewal policies that will be retained throughout the annual policy period to the number of available renewal base policies.  For all of the segments, represents the estimated change in average premium on policies that renew, excluding exposure changes.  is the amount of change in premium on policies that renew attributable to the change in portfolio risk.  represents the estimated change in average premium on policies that renew, including rate and exposure changes.  is the amount of written premium related to new policyholders and additional products to existing policyholders.  These are operating statistics, which are subject to change based upon a number of factors, including changes in actuarial estimates.
etention
r
renewal
rate change
Exposure
Renewal premium change
New business volume
 
An insurance company's represents the excess of its assets over its liabilities in accordance with the statutory accounting practices required by state laws and regulations.
statutory surplus
 
Holding company liquidity
is the total cash, short-term invested assets and other readily marketable securities held by the holding company.  Holding company liquidity requirements primarily include shareholder dividends and debt service.
 
For a glossary of other financial terms used in this press release, we refer you to the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Contacts
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
The information included in the Financial Supplement is unaudited.  This document should be read in conjunction with the Company's Form 10-K which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
(1)  Repurchased under Board of Director authorization.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  Adjustments to net income and weighted average shares for net income EPS calculations can also be used for the operating income EPS calculations.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  In 4Q 2010, "Other revenues" include $(60) million of expenses related to the Company's purchase and retirement of $885 million of its $1 billion 6.25% fixed-to-floating rate junior subordinated debentures.
 
(2)  In 1Q 2009 and 2Q 2009 "General and administrative expenses" includes $(61) million and $(26) million, respectively, of reductions in estimated hurricane-related assessments from state-created insurance and windstorm insurance entities.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  In 4Q 2010, "Other, including interest expense" includes $(39) million, net of tax, of expenses related to the Company's purchase and retirement of $885 million of its $1 billion 6.25% fixed-to-floating rate junior subordinated debentures.
(2)  Before policyholder dividends.
(3)  Billing and policy fees, which are a component of other revenues, are allocated as a reduction of underwriting expenses.  In addition, fee income is allocated as a reduction of losses and loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses as follows:
 
 
(4)  The impact of reductions in prior year estimates of hurricane-related assessments, which is not included in the impact of catastrophes or prior year reserve development on the combined ratio, is (1.2), (0.5), and (0.4) points for 1Q 2009, 2Q 2009, and YTD 4Q 2009, respectively.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  In 4Q 2010, "Other revenues" include $(60) million of expenses related to the Company's purchase and retirement of $885 million of its $1 billion 6.25% fixed-to-floating rate junior subordinated debentures.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  Based on 12 months of rolling net written premiums.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  In 1Q 2009 and 2Q 2009 "General and administrative expenses" includes $(26) million and $(12) million, respectively, of reductions in estimated hurricane-related assessments from state-created insurance and windstorm insurance entities.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  Before policyholder dividends.
(2)  Billing and policy fees, which are a component of other revenues, are allocated as a reduction of underwriting expenses.  In addition, fee income is allocated as a reduction of losses and loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses as follows:
 
 
(3)  The impact of reductions in prior year estimates of hurricane-related assessments, which is not included in the impact of catastrophes or prior year reserve development on the combined ratio, is (0.9), (0.4), and (0.3) points for 1Q 2009, 2Q 2009 and YTD 4Q 2009, respectively.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  Includes new and renewal business.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
 
(1)  In 1Q 2009 "General and administrative expenses" includes $(1) million of reductions in estimated hurricane-related assessments from state-created insurance and windstorm insurance entities.
 
(2)  In 4Q 2009, 3Q 2010 and 4Q 2010 "Catastrophes, net of reinsurance" includes a net benefit from re-estimation of current year catastrophe losses.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
 
(1)  Before policyholder dividends.
(2)  Fee income is allocated as a reduction of losses and loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses as follows:
 
 
(3)  The impact of reductions in prior year estimates of hurricane-related assessments, which is not included in the impact of catastrophes or prior year reserve development on the combined ratio, is (0.1) and (0.0) for 1Q 2009 and YTD 4Q 2009, respectively.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
 
In 2Q 2009, results from the surety bond operation in Canada were reclassified from the "Bond & Financial Products" market to the "International" market, and from the "Fidelity & surety" product line to the "International" product line.  All prior period amounts have been restated to reflect this reclassification.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
 
(1)  In 1Q 2009 and 2Q 2009 "General and administrative expenses" includes $(34) million and $(14) million, respectively, of reductions in estimated hurricane-related assessments from state-created insurance and windstorm insurance entities.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
 
(1)  Billing and policy fees, which are a component of other revenues, are allocated as a reduction of underwriting expenses. Billing and policy fees are as follows:
 
 
(2)  The impact of reductions in prior year estimates of hurricane-related assessments, which is not included in the impact of catastrophes or prior year reserve development on the combined ratio, is (2.0), (0.8), and (0.7) points for 1Q 2009, 2Q 2009, and YTD 4Q 2009, respectively.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  Represents Automobile policies sold through agents, brokers and other intermediaries, and excludes direct to consumer.
 
(2)  Billing and policy fees, which are a component of other revenues, are allocated as a reduction of underwriting expenses.
 
Billing and policy fees are as follows:
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)
         
Represents Homeowners and Other Lines sold through agents, brokers and other intermediaries, and excludes direct to consumer.
 
(2)
         
Billing and policy fees, which are a component of other revenues, are allocated as a reduction of underwriting expenses.
 
Billing and policy fees are as follows:
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  In 4Q 2010, "Other revenues" include $(60) million of expenses related to the Company's purchase and retirement of $885 million of its $1 billion 6.25% fixed-to-floating rate junior subordinated debentures.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1) Preliminary.
 
 
 
(1)  Yields are provided for those investments with an embedded book yield.
 
 
 
Fixed Maturities
Quality Characteristics (1)
 
 
(1)  Rated using external rating agencies or by Travelers when a public rating does not exist.  Below investment grade assets refer to securities rated "Ba" or below.
 
 
 
(1)  Excludes net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax, and is adjusted for cash, receivables for investment sales, payables on investment purchases and accrued investment income.
 
 
 
(1)  In 4Q 2009, the Company sold a portion of its common stock holdings in Verisk Analytics, Inc. (Verisk) for total proceeds of approximately $184 million as part of the initial public offering of Verisk.  The Company recorded a pretax realized investment gain of $159 million (included in the "Other" category above) on the sale in 4Q 2009.  In 3Q 2010, the Company sold most of its remaining common stock holdings in Verisk for total proceeds of approximately $230 million as part of the secondary public offering of Verisk.  The Company recorded a pretax realized investment gain of $205 million on this sale in 3Q 2010 ($102 million included in the "Equity securities" and $103 million included in the "Other investments" categories above).
 
(2)  Includes the following gross investment gains and gross investment losses related to U.S. Treasury futures, which are settled daily:
 
 
The Company entered into these arrangements as part of its strategy to shorten the duration of the fixed maturity portfolio.  In a changing interest rate environment, the change in the value of the futures contracts can be expected to partially offset changes in the value of the fixed maturity portfolio.
 
 
 
The Company's top five reinsurer groups, including retroactive reinsurance, by reinsurance recoverable is as follows:
 
 
The gross reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses represent the current and estimated future amounts due from reinsurers on known and unasserted claims.  The ceded reserves are estimated in a manner consistent with the underlying direct and assumed reserves.  Although this total comprises recoverables due from nearly one thousand different reinsurance entities, about half is attributable to 10 reinsurer groups.
 
The net reinsurance recoverables reflect an allowance for uncollectible reinsurance that is based upon the Company's ongoing review of amounts outstanding, reinsurer solvency, the Company's experience, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors.  Of the total net recoverables due from reinsurers at December 31, 2010, after deducting mandatory pools and associations and structured settlement balances, $5.2 billion, or 79%, were rated by A.M. Best Company.  Of the total rated by A.M. Best Company, 98% were rated A- or better.  The remaining 21% net recoverables from reinsurers were comprised of the following:  5% related to the Company's participation in voluntary pools, 10% related to recoverables from captive insurance companies and 6% were balances from other companies not rated by A.M. Best Company.  In addition, $2.1 billion of the net recoverables were collateralized by letters of credit, funds held and trust agreements at December 31, 2010.
 
The mandatory pools and associations represent various involuntary assigned risk pools that the Company is required to participate in.  These pools principally involve workers' compensation and automobile insurance, which provide various insurance coverages to insureds that otherwise are unable to purchase coverage in the open market.  The costs of these mandatory pools in most states are usually charged back to the participating members in proportion to voluntary writings of related business in that state.  In the event that a member of the pool becomes insolvent, the remaining members assume an additional pro rata share of the pool's liabilities.
 
The structured settlements represent recoverables from annuities that were purchased from life insurance companies to settle personal physical injury claims, with workers' compensation claims comprising a significant proportion.  In cases where the Company did not receive a release from the claimant, the Company retains the liability to the claimant in the event that the life insurance company fails to pay; accordingly, the Company continues to report the amount due from the life insurance company as a liability and as a recoverable for GAAP purposes. The Company's top five groups by structured settlement is as follows:
 
 
(1)  Pending sale of Old Mutual Plc. to Harbinger Capital Partners LLC is expected to be completed in Q1 2011
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1)  Redeemable anytime with "make-whole" premium.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
(1) Estimated and Preliminary
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 34.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following measures are used by the Company's management to evaluate financial performance against historical results and establish targets on a consolidated basis.  In some cases, these measures are considered non-GAAP financial measures under applicable SEC rules because they are not displayed as separate line items in the consolidated financial statements or are not required to be disclosed in the notes to financial statements or, in some cases, include or exclude certain items not ordinarily included or excluded in the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
 
In the opinion of the Company's management, a discussion of these measures provides investors, financial analysts, rating agencies and other financial statement users with a better understanding of the significant factors that comprise the Company's periodic results of operations and how management evaluates the Company's financial performance.  Internally, the Company's management uses these measures to evaluate performance against historical results and establish financial targets on a consolidated basis.
 
Some of these measures exclude net realized gains (losses), net of tax, and/or net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax, which can be significantly impacted by both discretionary and other economic factors and are not necessarily indicative of operating trends.
 
Other companies may calculate these measures differently, and, therefore, their measures may not be comparable to those used by the Company's management.
 
Operating income (loss)
is net income (loss) excluding the after-tax impact of net realized investment gains (losses).  Management uses operating income to analyze each segment's performance and as a tool in making business decisions.  Financial statement users also consider operating income when analyzing the results and trends of insurance companies.  is operating income (loss) on a per common share basis.
Operating earnings (loss) per share
 
Average shareholders' equity
is (a) the sum of total shareholders' equity excluding preferred stock at the beginning and end of each of the quarters for the period presented divided by (b) the number of quarters in the period presented times two.  is shareholders' equity excluding net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax, net realized investment gains (losses), net of tax, for the period presented and preferred stock.  is average shareholders' equity excluding net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax, for all quarters included in the calculation and, for each quarterly period included in the calculation that quarter's net realized investment gains (losses), net of tax.
Adjusted shareholders' equity
Adjusted average shareholders' equity
 
Return on equity
is the ratio of annualized net income (loss) less preferred dividends to average shareholders' equity for the periods presented  is the ratio of annualized operating income (loss) less preferred dividends to adjusted average shareholders' equity for the periods presented.  In the opinion of the Company's management, these are important indicators of how well management creates value for its shareholders through its operating activities and its capital management.
.
Operating return on equity
 
Underwriting gain (loss)
is net earned premiums and fee income less claims and claim adjustment expenses and insurance-related expenses.  In the opinion of the Company's management, it is important to measure the profitability of each segment excluding the results of investing activities, which are managed separately from the insurance business.  This measure is used to assess each segment's business performance and as a tool in making business decisions.
 
A is a severe loss, resulting from natural and man-made events, including risks such as fire, earthquake, windstorm, explosion, terrorism and other similar events.  Each catastrophe has unique characteristics, and catastrophes are not predictable as to timing or amount.  Their effects are included in net and operating income and claims and claim adjustment expense reserves upon occurrence.  A catastrophe may result in the payment of reinsurance reinstatement premiums and assessments from various pools.  In the opinion of the Company's management, a discussion of the impact of catastrophes is meaningful to users of the financial statements to understand the Company's periodic earnings and the variability in periodic earnings caused by the unpredictable nature of catastrophes.
catastrophe
 
Net favorable (unfavorable) prior year loss reserve development
is the increase or decrease in incurred claims and claim adjustment expenses as a result of the re-estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at successive valuation dates for a given group of claims.  Loss reserve development may be related to one or more prior years or the current year.  In the opinion of the Company's management, a discussion of loss reserve development is meaningful to users of the financial statements as it allows them to assess the impact between prior and current year development on incurred claims and claim adjustment expenses, net and operating income, and changes in claims and claim adjustment expense reserve levels from period to period.
 
GAAP combined ratio
is the sum of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio (loss and LAE ratio) and the underwriting expense ratio.  For GAAP, the loss and LAE ratio is the ratio of incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses reduced by an allocation of fee income to net earned premiums.  The underwriting expense ratio is the ratio of underwriting expenses incurred reduced by an allocation of fee income, and billing and policy fees to net earned premiums. A GAAP combined ratio under 100% generally indicates an underwriting profit. A GAAP combined ratio over 100% generally indicates an underwriting loss. The GAAP combined ratio is an operating statistic that includes GAAP measures in the numerator and the denominator.
 
GAAP combined ratio excluding the incremental impact of the direct to consumer initiative
is the GAAP combined ratio adjusted to exclude the direct, variable impact of the company's direct-to-consumer initiative in Personal Insurance.  In the opinion of the company's management, this is useful in an analysis of the profitability of the company's ongoing agency business.
 
Gross written premiums
reflect the direct and assumed contractually determined amounts charged to the policyholders for the effective period of the contract based on the terms and conditions of the insurance contract.  Gross written premiums are a measure of overall business volume.  reflect gross written premiums less premiums ceded to reinsurers.
Net written premiums
 
Book value per share
is total common shareholders' equity divided by the number of common shares outstanding.  is total common shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax impact of net unrealized investment gains and losses, divided by the number of common shares outstanding. In the opinion of the Company's management, adjusted book value is useful in an analysis of a property casualty company's book value as it removes the effect of changing prices on invested assets, (i.e., net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax) which do not have an equivalent impact on unpaid claims and claim adjustment expense reserves.
Adjusted book value per share
 
Total capital
is the sum of total shareholders' equity and debt. is the ratio of debt to total capital excluding the after-tax impact of net unrealized investment gains and losses.  In the opinion of the company's management, the debt to capital ratio is useful in an analysis of the company's financial leverage.
 Debt-to-capital ratio excluding net unrealized gain (loss) on investments
 
Statutory surplus
represents the excess of an insurance company's assets over its liabilities in accordance with the statutory accounting practices required by state laws and regulations.
 
Travelers has organized its businesses into the following reportable business segments:
 
Business Insurance -
The Business Insurance segment offers a broad array of property and casualty insurance and insurance-related services to its clients primarily in the United States.  Business Insurance is organized into the following six groups, which collectively comprise Business Insurance Core operations: Select Accounts; Commercial Accounts; National Accounts; Industry-Focused Underwriting including Construction, Technology, Public Sector Services, Oil & Gas, and Agribusiness; Target Risk Underwriting including National Property, Inland Marine, Ocean Marine, Excess Casualty, Boiler & Machinery, and Global Accounts; and Specialized Distribution including Northland and National Programs.  Business Insurance also includes the Special Liability Group (which manages the Company's asbestos and environmental liabilities) and the assumed reinsurance, and certain international and other runoff operations, which collectively are referred to as Business Insurance Other.
 
Financial, Professional & International Insurance
- The Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment includes surety and management liability coverages, which require a primarily credit-based underwriting process, as well as property and casualty products that are primarily marketed on a domestic basis in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Canada, and on an international basis through Lloyd's.  The businesses in Financial, Professional & International Insurance are Bond & Financial Products and International.
 
Personal Insurance
- The Personal Insurance segment writes virtually all types of property and casualty insurance covering personal risks.  The primary coverages in this segment are personal automobile and homeowners insurance sold to individuals.


