FILE:TRV/TRV-8K-20120719070508.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 19, 2012, The Travelers Companies, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the results of the Company's operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, and the availability of the Company's second quarter financial supplement on the Company's web site.  The press release and the financial supplement are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report and are hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.
 
As provided in General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information and exhibits contained in this Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall they be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NYSE: TRV
 
            
Operating income of $495 million or $1.26 per diluted share generated an operating return on equity of 9%.
 
            
Quarter reflected underlying underwriting margin improvement across all segments and strong net investment income given the continuing low interest rate environment.
 
            
Written rate gains continued across all segments.
 
            
Book value per share of $64.90, up 9% from end of prior year quarter and 4% from year-end 2011.
 
            
Board of Directors approved quarterly dividend per share of $0.46.
 
New York, July 19, 2012
 The Travelers Companies, Inc. today reported net income of $499 million, or $1.26 per diluted share, for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, compared to a net loss of $364 million, or $0.88 per diluted share, in the prior year quarter. Operating income in the current quarter was $495 million, or $1.26 per diluted share, compared to an operating loss of $377 million, or $0.91 per diluted share, in the prior year quarter. Catastrophe losses in the current quarter were $357 million after tax ($549 million pre tax), compared to $1.085 billion after tax ($1.668 billion pre tax) in the prior year quarter.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures for definitions and the statistical supplement for additional financial data.
NM = Not Meaningful.
 
"Our second quarter net income of $499 million benefited from meaningful improvement in our underlying underwriting margins as well as strong net investment income given the continuing low interest rate environment," commented Jay Fishman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "However, earnings were also impacted by weather-related losses which, while much lower than in the prior year quarter, were considerably higher than we would have expected based on historical experience.
 
"We continue to be very pleased with pricing trends across our businesses.  In Business Insurance, renewal rate change exceeded 7%, with stable retentions, demonstrating the success of our active pricing strategy and our continued focus on improving profitability. In Financial, Professional and International Insurance, renewal rate change
continued to improve from recent quarters. Notably, renewal rate change in Management Liability not only improved from recent quarters but also accelerated within the quarter.  In Personal Insurance, renewal premium change, which includes changes in exposure, increased to 6% in Agency Auto and 11% in Agency Homeowners & Other and also accelerated within the quarter.
 
"We remain committed to our strategy of improved profitability through actively and selectively seeking rate and improvements in terms and conditions given the persistent low interest rate environment and continuing unusual weather patterns," concluded Mr. Fishman.
 
 
 
Operating income of $495 million after tax increased $872 million from the prior year quarter due to an $877 million after-tax improvement in the underwriting loss.
 
The underwriting loss in the current quarter reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 100.5 percent, as compared to 125.0 percent in the prior year quarter. This improvement of 24.5 points in the combined ratio was primarily due to a $1.119 billion pre-tax decrease in catastrophe losses (improvement of 20.3 points) and a $53 million pre-tax increase in net favorable prior year reserve development (improvement of 0.9 points). Catastrophe losses in the current quarter primarily resulted from wind and hail storms in several regions of the United States. Net favorable prior year reserve development in the current quarter occurred in all three segments.
 
The current quarter underlying underwriting gain, which excludes net favorable prior year reserve development and catastrophe losses, reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 94.5 percent, as compared to 97.8 percent in the prior year quarter.  This improvement of 3.3 points primarily resulted from earned rate increases outpacing loss cost trends as well as a lower level of large losses and non-catastrophe weather-related losses.
 
Total revenues of $6.359 billion in the current quarter approximated the prior year quarter. Within total revenues, earned premiums increased $26 million, while net investment income decreased $20 million. The slight decrease in net investment income was primarily driven by lower reinvestment rates in the fixed income portfolio.
 
Net written premiums of $5.868 billion in the current quarter increased 1 percent from the prior year quarter. Renewal rate gains continued across all segments.  Retention rates remained strong across each segment and were consistent with recent quarters. New business volumes decreased from the prior year quarter in all segments, largely as a result of the company's pricing strategy. Net written premiums in Business Insurance benefited from continued positive exposure change at renewal, as well as a meaningfully higher level of positive audit premiums compared to the prior year quarter.
"During the quarter, we repaid $250 million of maturing debt from existing holding company liquidity as planned," commented Jay S. Benet, Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, "We successfully renewed our catastrophe reinsurance program on July 1 and obtained reinsurance through a new $250 million catastrophe bond in June. Further, all of our capital ratios remained at or above target."
 
During the second quarter of 2012, the company repurchased 5.6 million common shares under its existing share repurchase authorization for a total cost of $350 million and dividends were $181 million. Shareholders' equity was $25.049 billion at the end of the second quarter of 2012, a 2 percent increase from the end of the prior year. Included in shareholders' equity at the end of the second quarter of 2012 were after-tax net unrealized investment gains of $2.980 billion, compared to $2.871 billion at year-end 2011. Statutory surplus was $19.841 billion, up modestly from the beginning of the year. The company's debt-to-capital ratio (excluding after-tax net unrealized investment gains) was 22.3 percent, well within its target range, and holding company liquidity was $1.976 billion.
 
The Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.46 per common share. This dividend is payable September 28, 2012 to shareholders of record as of the close of business September 10, 2012.
 
"In Business Insurance, we are pleased to report meaningfully higher underlying underwriting margins in the quarter primarily as a result of earned rate increases exceeding loss cost trends", commented Brian MacLean, President and Chief Operating Officer. "We continued to achieve broad based rate increases across the segment along with stable retentions. We remain optimistic about our ability to continue to execute our targeted pricing strategy.  Given our current view of pricing and underlying loss cost trends, we expect higher underlying underwriting margins for the remainder of the year as compared to the first half of 2012 assuming weather patterns consistent with our expectations."
 
Operating income of $362 million after tax increased $351 million from the prior year quarter due to a $358 million after-tax improvement in the underwriting loss.
 
The underwriting loss in the current quarter reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 103.0 percent, as compared to 122.9 percent in the prior year quarter. This improvement of 19.9 points in the combined ratio was primarily due to a $445 million pre-tax decrease in catastrophe losses (improvement of 16.1 points) and $31 million pre-tax increase in net favorable prior year reserve development (improvement of 1.0 point). Net favorable prior year reserve development in the current quarter primarily resulted from better than expected loss experience in the workers' compensation product line for accident years 2008 and prior, better than expected loss experience in the property product line related to catastrophe losses incurred in 2011 and lower than expected claim department expenses. This improvement was partially offset by a $59 million after tax ($90 million pre tax) increase to environmental reserves in the current quarter.
The current quarter underlying underwriting gain, which excludes net favorable prior year reserve development and catastrophe losses, reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 96.2 percent, as compared to 99.0 percent in the prior year quarter. This improvement of 2.8 points primarily resulted from earned rate increases outpacing loss cost trends as well as a lower level of large losses.
 
Business Insurance net written premiums of $3.026 billion in the current quarter increased 5 percent from the prior year quarter primarily driven by continued increases in renewal rate change. While retention rates and new business volumes were lower than the prior year quarter, both were improved from recent quarters and consistent with the company's pricing strategy. Net written premiums also benefited from continued positive exposure change at renewal, as well as a meaningfully higher level of positive audit premiums compared to the prior year quarter.
 
Select Accounts
 
            
Net written premiums of $721 million decreased 2 percent from the prior year quarter.
            
Renewal premium change was positive for the thirteenth consecutive quarter and increased from recent quarters to its highest level since the first quarter 2004 on business from both Travelers
Express
SM
, the company's enhanced quote-to-issue agency platform and multivariate pricing program for smaller businesses, and larger accounts served by Select.
            
Retention rates improved slightly from the most recent quarter but were lower than the prior year quarter primarily due to lower retention rates in larger accounts.
            
While new business volumes from Travelers
Express
SM
 remained strong, overall Select new business volumes decreased from the prior year quarter.
 
Commercial Accounts
 
            
Net written premiums of $717 million increased 9 percent from the prior year quarter primarily due to increased renewal premium change as well as a higher level of positive audit premiums.
            
Renewal premium change was positive for the seventh consecutive quarter and was generally consistent with recent quarters.
            
Retention rates remained strong and increased from recent quarters.
            
New business volumes decreased from the prior year quarter.
 
Other Business Insurance
 
Includes Industry-Focused Underwriting, Target Risk Underwriting and Specialized Distribution
 
            
Net written premiums of $1.364 billion increased 5 percent from the prior year quarter primarily due to increased renewal premium change as well as a higher level of positive audit premiums.
            
Renewal premium change was positive for the fourth consecutive quarter and continued to increase from recent quarters.
            
Retention rates remained strong and improved slightly from recent quarters.
            
New business volumes decreased from the prior year quarter but improved from recent quarters.
 
National Accounts
 
            
Net written premiums of $226 million increased 20 percent from the prior year quarter primarily due to increased renewal premium change driven by payroll exposure growth and strong retention rates. In addition, the re-population of workers' compensation residual market pools contributed to premium growth in the second quarter 2012.
 
 
"Financial, Professional & International Insurance once again reported strong results as our underlying loss ratios, which exclude catastrophe losses and net favorable prior year reserve development, improved for the sixth consecutive quarter," commented MacLean. "We are very pleased with the success of our pricing strategy and efforts to improve the balance of risk and reward in certain lines of business. We are particularly pleased that we have experienced accelerating rate increases in our Management Liability business over the past six months and are encouraged that retention rates remain high. Given our current view of pricing and underlying loss cost trends, we expect higher underlying underwriting margins for the remainder of the year as compared to the first half of 2012."
 
 
Operating income of $182 million after tax increased $18 million from the prior year quarter due to a $21 million after-tax increase in the underwriting gain.
 
The underwriting gain in the current quarter reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 80.0 percent, as compared to 84.8 percent in the prior year quarter. This improvement of 4.8 points in the combined ratio was partly due to a $10 million pre-tax decrease in catastrophe losses (improvement of 1.3 points). While net favorable prior year reserve development of $96 million pre tax was consistent with the prior year quarter, the favorable impact on the GAAP combined ratio in the current quarter was 0.8 points greater than the prior year quarter due to lower earned premiums.  Net favorable prior year reserve development in the current quarter primarily resulted from better than expected loss experience in both Bond & Financial Products and International across multiple lines of business and accident years.
 
The current quarter underlying underwriting gain, which excludes net favorable prior year reserve development and catastrophe losses, reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 92.1 percent, as compared to 94.8 percent in the prior year quarter. This improvement of 2.7 points primarily resulted from earned rate increases outpacing loss cost trends as well as a lower level of large losses and non-catastrophe weather-related losses within International, partially offset by an increase in the expense ratio primarily as a result of lower earned premiums.
 
Financial, Professional & International Insurance net written premiums of $840 million decreased 4 percent from the prior year quarter.
 
Retention rates, renewal premium changes and new business volumes, as discussed below, exclude the surety line of business as surety products are generally sold on a non-recurring, project-specific basis.
 
Bond & Financial Products
 
            
Net written premiums of $524 million decreased 2 percent from the prior year quarter primarily due to the timing of certain reinsurance transactions and lower business volumes in construction surety reflecting the continued slowdown in construction spending, partially offset by growth in Management Liability business volume.
            
Renewal premium change remained positive and increased for the third consecutive quarter primarily due to positive renewal rate change and higher insured exposures.
            
Retention rates remained very strong and generally consistent with recent quarters.
            
New business volumes increased modestly from the prior year quarter.
 
International
 
            
Net written premiums of $316 million decreased 9 percent from the prior year quarter. Adjusting for the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates, net written premiums decreased 6 percent from the prior year quarter primarily due to the company's exit from the personal insurance business in Ireland.
            
Renewal premium change was positive due to the impact of continued positive renewal rate change.
            
Retention rates were down slightly from the most recent quarter but were significantly improved from the prior year quarter.
            
New business volumes decreased from the prior year quarter.
 
"In Personal Insurance, we are very pleased with the pricing gains that we continue to achieve in both Auto and Homeowners, as well as the acceleration of these pricing gains in the quarter," commented MacLean.  "However, weather-related losses in Homeowners and loss trends in Auto, primarily severity, remain at levels that necessitate further action.  Accordingly, we will continue to seek improved pricing, terms and conditions in order to improve returns."
 
 
Operating income of $17 million after tax increased $488 million from the prior year quarter due to a $498 million after-tax improvement in the underwriting loss.
 
The underwriting loss in the current quarter reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 104.8 percent, as compared to 145.5 percent in the prior year quarter. This improvement of 40.7 points in the combined ratio was driven by a $664 million pre-tax decrease in catastrophe losses (improvement of 35.4 points) and a $22 million pre-tax increase in net favorable prior year reserve development (improvement of 1.1 points). The net favorable prior year reserve development in the current quarter primarily resulted from better than expected loss experience in Homeowners & Other related to catastrophe losses incurred in 2011 and in the umbrella product line for accident years 2007 to 2011.
 
The current quarter underlying underwriting gain, which excludes net favorable prior year reserve development and catastrophe losses, reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 93.0 percent, as compared to 97.2 percent in the prior year quarter. This improvement of 4.2 points was primarily due to a lower level of non-catastrophe weather-related losses and fire-related losses.
 
Personal Insurance net written premiums of $2.002 billion decreased 3 percent from the prior year quarter primarily due to lower new business volumes in both Automobile and Homeowners & Other.
 
Agency Automobile and Agency Homeowners & Other, as discussed below, represent business sold through agents, brokers and other intermediaries and exclude direct to consumer.
 
Agency Automobile
 
            
Net written premiums of $899 million decreased 5 percent from the prior year quarter primarily as a result of lower new business levels.
            
Policies in force decreased 3 percent from the prior year quarter.
            
Renewal premium change remained positive and increased from recent quarters.
            
Retention rates remained strong but down slightly from recent quarters.
            
New business volumes were lower than the prior year quarter.
 
Agency Homeowners & Other
 
            
Net written premiums of $1.064 billion decreased 1 percent from the prior year quarter.
            
Policies in force decreased 2 percent from the prior year quarter.
            
Renewal premium change remained positive and continued to increase from recent quarters.
            
Retention rates remained very strong and generally consistent with recent quarters.
            
New business volumes were lower than the prior year quarter.
 
 
 
Operating income of $1.296 billion after tax increased $847 million from the prior year period primarily due to an $876 million after-tax increase in underwriting results, partially offset by a $46 million after-tax decrease in net investment income.
 
The underwriting gain in the current period reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 96.3 percent, as compared to 110.1 percent in the prior year period. This improvement of 13.8 points in the combined ratio was primarily due to a $1.137 billion pre-tax decrease in catastrophe losses (improvement of 10.6 points) and $120 million pre-tax increase in net favorable prior year reserve development (improvement of 1.1 points).
The current period underlying underwriting gain, which excludes net favorable prior year reserve development and catastrophe losses, reflected a GAAP combined ratio of 94.6 percent, as compared to 96.7 percent in the prior year period.  This improvement of 2.1 points primarily resulted from earned rate increases outpacing loss cost trends as well as a lower level of large losses and non-catastrophe weather-related losses.
 
Financial Supplement and Conference Call
 
The information in this press release should be read in conjunction with a financial supplement that is available on our website at www.travelers.com. Travelers management will discuss the contents of this release and other relevant topics via webcast at 9 a.m. Eastern (8 a.m. Central) on Thursday, July 19, 2012. Prior to the webcast, a slide presentation pertaining to the quarterly earnings will be available on the company's website. Following the live event, an audio playback of the webcast and the slide presentation will be available on the company's website.
 
To view the slides or to listen to the webcast or the playback, visit the "Webcasts & Presentations" section of the Travelers investor relations website at http://investor.travelers.com.
 
About Travelers
 
The Travelers Companies, Inc. (NYSE: TRV) is a leading provider of property casualty insurance for auto, home and business. The company's diverse business lines offer its customers a wide range of coverage sold primarily through independent agents and brokers. A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, Travelers has more than 30,000 employees and operations in the United States and selected International markets. For more information, visit www.travelers.com.
 
From time to time, Travelers may use its website as a channel of distribution of material company information. Financial and other material information regarding the company is routinely posted on and accessible at http://investor.travelers.com. In addition, you may automatically receive email alerts and other information about Travelers by enrolling your email by visiting the "Email Alert Service" section at http://investor.travelers.com.
 
Travelers has organized its businesses into the following reportable business segments:
 
Business Insurance
: The Business Insurance segment offers a broad array of property and casualty insurance and insurance-related services to its clients primarily in the United States. Business Insurance is organized into the following six groups, which collectively comprise Business Insurance Core operations: Select Accounts; Commercial Accounts; National Accounts; Industry-Focused Underwriting including Construction, Technology, Public Sector Services, Oil & Gas and Agribusiness; Target Risk Underwriting including National Property, Inland Marine, Ocean Marine, Excess Casualty, Boiler & Machinery and Global Partner Services; and Specialized Distribution including Northland and National Programs. Business Insurance also includes the Special Liability Group (which manages the company's asbestos and environmental liabilities) and the assumed reinsurance and certain international and other runoff operations, which collectively are referred to as Business Insurance Other.
 
Financial, Professional & International Insurance
: The Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment includes surety and financial liability coverages, which primarily use credit-based underwriting processes, as well as property and casualty products that are primarily marketed on a domestic basis in the United Kingdom, Canada and the Republic of Ireland, and on an international basis through Lloyd's. The businesses in Financial, Professional & International Insurance are Bond & Financial Products and International.
 
Personal Insurance
: The Personal Insurance segment writes a broad range of property and casualty insurance covering individuals' personal risks. The primary products of automobile and homeowners insurance are complemented by a broad suite of related coverages.
 
Forward-Looking Statement
 
This press release contains, and management may make, certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, may be forward-looking statements. Words such as "may", "will", "should", "likely", "anticipates", "expects", "intends", "plans", "projects", "believes", "estimates" and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. Specifically, statements about the company's share repurchase plans, expected margin improvement, future pension
plan contributions and the potential impact of investment markets and other economic conditions on the company's investment portfolio and underwriting results, among others, are forward looking, and the company may also make forward-looking statements about, among other things:
 
                 
its results of operations and financial condition (including, among other things, premium volume, premium rates, net and operating income, investment income and performance, return on equity, and expected current returns and combined ratios);
                 
the sufficiency of the company's asbestos and other reserves;
                 
the impact of emerging claims issues as well as other insurance and non-insurance litigation;
                 
the cost and availability of reinsurance coverage;
                 
catastrophe losses;
                 
the impact of investment, economic and underwriting market conditions; and
                 
strategic initiatives.
 
The company cautions investors that such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the company's control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements.
 
Some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
                 
catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations, its financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact the company's ratings, the company's ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance;
                 
during or following a period of financial market disruption or economic downturn, the company's business could be materially and adversely affected;
                 
if actual claims exceed the company's claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are necessary, the company's financial results could be materially and adversely affected;
                 
the company's investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or material realized or unrealized losses;
                 
the company's business could be harmed because of its potential exposure to asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation;
                 
the company is exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances;
                 
the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on the company's business are uncertain;
                 
the intense competition that the company faces could harm its ability to maintain or increase its business volumes, its pricing levels and/or its profitability;
                 
the company may not be able to collect all amounts due to it from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to the company in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all;
                 
the company is exposed to credit risk in certain of its business operations;
                 
within the United States, the company's businesses are heavily regulated by the states in which it conducts business, including licensing and supervision, and changes in regulation may reduce the company's profitability and limit its growth;
                 
changes in federal regulation could impose significant burdens on the company and otherwise adversely impact its results;
                 
a downgrade in the company's claims-paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact the company's business volumes, adversely impact the company's ability to access the capital markets and increase the company's borrowing costs;
                 
the inability of the company's insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to the company's holding company in sufficient amounts would harm the company's ability to meet its obligations, pay future shareholder dividends or make future share repurchases;
                 
disruptions to the company's relationships with its independent agents and brokers could adversely affect the company;
                 
the company's efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets may not be successful and may create enhanced risks;
                 
any net deferred tax asset could be adversely affected by a reduction in the U.S. Federal corporate income tax rate;
                 
the company may be adversely affected if its pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results;
                 
the company is subject to a number of risks associated with its business outside the United States;
                 
new regulations outside of the U.S., including in the European Union, could adversely impact the company's results of operations and limit its growth;
                 
the company's business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology;
                 
if the company experiences difficulties with technology, data security and/or outsourcing relationships, the company's ability to conduct its business could be negatively impacted;
                 
acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties and other unintended consequences;
                 
changes to existing accounting standards may adversely impact the company's reported results;
                 
the company could be adversely affected if its controls designed to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective;
                 
the company's businesses may be adversely affected if it is unable to hire and retain qualified employees;
                 
loss of or significant restriction on the use of credit scoring in the pricing and underwriting of Personal Insurance products could reduce the company's future profitability; and
                 
the company's repurchase plans depend on a variety of factors, including the company's financial position, earnings, common share price, catastrophe losses, funding of the company's qualified pension plan, capital requirements of the company's operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, other investment opportunities (including mergers and acquisitions), market conditions and other factors.
 
Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release or as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements. For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the information under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
The following measures are used by the company's management to evaluate financial performance against historical results and establish targets on a consolidated basis. In some cases, these measures are considered non-GAAP financial measures under applicable SEC rules because they are not displayed as separate line items in the consolidated financial statements or are not required to be disclosed in the notes to financial statements or, in some cases, include or exclude certain items not ordinarily included or excluded in the most comparable GAAP financial measure. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to their most directly comparable GAAP measures also follow.
 
In the opinion of the company's management, a discussion of these measures provides investors, financial analysts, rating agencies and other financial statement users with a better understanding of the significant factors that comprise the company's periodic results of operations and how management evaluates the company's financial performance.  Internally, the company's management uses these measures to evaluate performance against historical results, to establish financial targets on a consolidated basis and for other reasons, which are discussed below.
 
Some of these measures exclude net realized investment gains (losses), net of tax, and/or net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax, which can be significantly impacted by both discretionary and other economic factors and are not necessarily indicative of operating trends.
 
Other companies may calculate these measures differently, and, therefore, their measures may not be comparable to those used by the company's management.
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) AND CERTAIN OTHER NON-GAAP MEASURES TO NET INCOME (LOSS)
 
Operating income (loss)
is net income (loss) excluding the after-tax impact of net realized investment gains (losses) and discontinued operations. Management uses operating income (loss) to analyze each segment's performance and as a tool in making business decisions. Financial statement users also consider operating income when analyzing the results and trends of insurance companies. is operating income (loss) on a per common share basis.
Operating earnings (loss) per share
 
Reconciliation of Operating Income (Loss) less Preferred Dividends and Net Income (Loss) less Preferred Dividends to Net Income (Loss)
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Operating Earnings (Loss) per Share to Net Income (Loss) per Share on a Basic and Diluted Basis
 
Reconciliation of Operating Income (Loss) by Segment to Total Operating Income (Loss)
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF ADJUSTED SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY TO SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND OPERATING RETURN ON EQUITY TO RETURN ON EQUITY
 
Average shareholders' equity
is (a) the sum of total shareholders' equity excluding preferred stock at the beginning and end of each of the quarters for the period presented divided by (b) the number of quarters in the period presented times two. is shareholders' equity excluding net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax, net realized investment gains (losses), net of tax, for the period presented, preferred stock and discontinued operations. is average shareholders' equity excluding net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax, for all quarters included in the calculation and, for each quarterly period included in the calculation, that quarter's net realized investment gains (losses), net of tax.
Adjusted shareholders' equity
Adjusted average shareholders' equity
 
Reconciliation of Adjusted Shareholders' Equity to Shareholders' Equity
 
 
Return on equity
is the ratio of annualized net income (loss) less preferred dividends to average shareholders' equity for the periods presented. is the ratio of annualized operating income (loss) less preferred dividends to adjusted average shareholders' equity for the periods presented. In the opinion of the company's management, these are important indicators of how well management creates value for its shareholders through its operating activities and its capital management.
Operating return on equity
Calculation of Operating Return on Equity and Return on Equity
 
 
Average annual operating return on equity
over a period is the ratio of:
a) the sum of operating income (loss) less preferred dividends for the periods presented to
b) the sum of: 1) the sum of the adjusted average shareholders' equity for all full years in the period presented, and 2) for partial years in the period presented, the number of quarters in that partial year divided by four, multiplied by the adjusted average shareholders' equity of the partial year.
 
Calculation of Average Annual Operating Return on Equity from January 1, 2005 through June 30, 2012
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF PRE-TAX UNDERWRITING GAIN EXCLUDING CERTAIN ITEMS TO NET INCOME (LOSS)
 
Underwriting gain (loss)
is net earned premiums and fee income less claims and claim adjustment expenses and insurance-related expenses. In the opinion of the company's management, it is important to measure the profitability of each segment excluding the results of investing activities, which are managed separately from the insurance business. This measure is used to assess each segment's business performance and as a tool in making business decisions.  , is the underwriting gain (loss) adjusted to exclude claims, claim adjustment expenses, and reinstatement premiums and assessments related to catastrophes and loss reserve development related to time periods prior to the current year. In the opinion of the company's management, this measure is meaningful to users of the financial statements to understand the company's periodic earnings and the variability of earnings caused by the unpredictable nature (i.e., the timing and amount) of catastrophes and loss reserve development. This measure is also referred to as or .
Pre-tax
underwriting gain, excluding the impact of catastrophes and net favorable prior year loss reserve development
underlying underwriting margin
underlying underwriting gain (loss)
 
A is a severe loss, resulting from natural and man-made events, including risks such as fire, earthquake, windstorm, explosion, terrorism and other similar events. Each catastrophe has unique characteristics, and catastrophes are not predictable as to timing or amount. Their effects are included in net and operating income (loss) and claims and claim adjustment expense reserves upon occurrence. A catastrophe may result in the payment of reinsurance reinstatement premiums and assessments from various pools. In the opinion of the company's management, a discussion of the impact of catastrophes is meaningful to users of the financial statements to understand the company's periodic earnings and the variability in periodic earnings caused by the unpredictable nature of catastrophes.
catastrophe
Net favorable (unfavorable) prior year loss reserve development
is the increase or decrease in incurred claims and claim adjustment expenses as a result of the re-estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at successive valuation dates for a given group of claims, which may be related to one or more prior years. In the opinion of the company's management, a discussion of loss reserve development is meaningful to users of the financial statements as it allows them to assess the impact between prior and current year development on incurred claims and claim adjustment expenses, net and operating income (loss), and changes in claims and claim adjustment expense reserve levels from period to period.
 
Reconciliation of Pre-tax Underwriting Gain (Excluding the Impact of Catastrophes and Net Favorable Prior Year Loss Reserve Development) to Net Income (Loss)
 
 
Reconciliation of Net Income per Diluted Share Excluding the Impact of Catastrophes to Net Income per Diluted Share
 
 
ADJUSTMENT TO THE GAAP COMBINED RATIO FOR THE INCREMENTAL IMPACT OF THE DIRECT TO CONSUMER INITIATIVE
 
GAAP combined ratio
is the sum of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio (loss and LAE ratio) and the underwriting expense ratio. For GAAP, the loss and LAE ratio is the ratio of incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses reduced by an allocation of fee income to net earned premiums. The underwriting expense ratio is the ratio of underwriting expenses incurred reduced by an allocation of fee income, and billing and policy fees to net earned premiums. A GAAP combined ratio under 100% generally indicates an underwriting profit.  A GAAP combined ratio over 100% generally indicates an underwriting loss. The GAAP combined ratio is an operating statistic that includes GAAP measures in the numerator and the denominator.
 
 
Calculation of the GAAP Combined Ratio
 
 
(1)
    
For purposes of computing GAAP ratios, billing and policy fees (which are a component of other revenues) are allocated as a reduction of underwriting expenses.  In addition, fee income is allocated as a reduction of losses and loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses.
 
GAAP combined ratio excluding the incremental impact of the direct to consumer initiative
is the GAAP combined ratio adjusted to exclude the direct, variable impact of the company's direct-to-consumer initiative in Personal Insurance. In the opinion of the company's management, this is useful in an analysis of the profitability of the company's ongoing agency business.
 
Reconciliation of the Consolidated and Personal Insurance GAAP Combined Ratios (Excluding the Incremental Impact of the Direct to Consumer Initiative) to the Consolidated and Personal Insurance GAAP Combined Ratios
 
ADJUSTMENT TO NET WRITTEN PREMIUMS FOR THE IMPACT OF CHANGES IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES
 
Adjusting for
the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates
allows the effect of foreign exchange rate differences to be isolated in the analysis of changes in various financial statement line items that are translated from a local currency to the company's reporting currency, U.S. dollars. The impact is determined by assuming constant foreign exchange rates between periods as illustrated in the reconciliation below. In the opinion of the company's management, this is useful in an analysis of the results of the International market and the FP&II segment.
 
Reconciliation of the Impact of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates on International Net Written Premiums to International Net Written Premiums
 
Reconciliation of the Impact of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates on FP&II Net Written Premiums to FP&II Net Written Premiums
 
RECONCILIATION OF CERTAIN NON-GAAP MEASURES TO BOOK VALUE PER SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
Book value per share
is total common shareholders' equity divided by the number of common shares outstanding. is total common shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax impact of net unrealized investment gains and losses divided by the number of common shares outstanding.In the opinion of the company's management, adjusted book value is useful in an analysis of a property casualty company's book value as it removes the effect of changing prices on invested assets (i.e., net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax), which do not have an equivalent impact on unpaid claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. is adjusted book value per share excluding the after-tax value of goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the number of common shares outstanding. In the opinion of the company's management, tangible book value per share is useful in an analysis of a property casualty company's book value on a nominal basis as it removes certain effects of purchase accounting (i.e., goodwill and other intangible assets), in addition to the effect of changing prices on invested assets.
Adjusted book value per share
Tangible book value per share
Reconciliation of Tangible and Adjusted Common Shareholders' Equity to Shareholders' Equity
 
RECONCILIATION OF CERTAIN NON-GAAP MEASURES TO TOTAL CAPITALIZATION
 
Total capitalization
is the sum of total shareholders' equity and debt.
Debt-to-capital ratio excluding net unrealized gain on investments
is the ratio of debt to total capitalization excluding the after-tax impact of net unrealized investment gains and losses. In the opinion of the company's management, the debt to capital ratio is useful in an analysis of the company's financial leverage.
 
Reconciliation of Total Debt and Equity Excluding Net Unrealized Investment Gain to Total Capital
 
 
OTHER DEFINITIONS
 
Gross written premiums
reflect the direct and assumed contractually determined amounts charged to policyholders for the effective period of the contract based on the terms and conditions of the insurance contract. reflect gross written premiums less premiums ceded to reinsurers. These are GAAP measures.
Net written premiums
 
For the Business Insurance and Financial, Professional and International Insurance segments, is theamount of premium available for renewal that was retained, excluding rate and exposure changes. For the Personal Insurance segment, retention is the ratio of the expected number of renewal policies that will be retained throughout the annual policy period to the number of available renewal base policies. For all of the segments, represents the estimated change in average premium on policies that renew, excluding exposure changes. is the measure of risk used in the pricing of an insurance product. The change in exposure is the amount of change in premium on policies that renew attributable to the change in portfolio risk. represents the estimated change in average premium on policies that renew, including rate and exposure changes.
etention
r
renewal
rate change
Exposure
Renewal premium change
New business volume
is the amount of written premium related to new policyholders and additional products sold to existing policyholders.  These are operating statistics, which are subject to change based upon a number of factors, including changes in actuarial estimates.  For the Business Insurance segment, retention, renewal premium change and new business volumes exclude National Accounts and Business Insurance-Other.
 
An insurance company's represents the excess of its assets over its liabilities in accordance with the statutory accounting practices required by state laws and regulations.
statutory surplus
 
Holding company liquidity
is the total funds available at the holding company level to fund general corporate purposes, primarily the payment of shareholder dividends and debt service.  These funds consist of cash, short-term invested assets and readily marketable securities held by the holding company.
 
For a glossary of other financial terms used in this press release, we refer you to the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Contacts
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
The information included in the Financial Supplement is unaudited.  This document should be read in conjunction with the Company's Form 10-Q which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
Certain prior period amounts have been restated to conform to the 2012 presentation.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
Adjustments to net income (loss) and weighted average shares for net income (loss) EPS calculations: (1)
 
 
(1)  Adjustments to net income and weighted average shares for net income EPS calculations can also be used for the operating income EPS calculations.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
(1)
        
Before policyholder dividends.
(2)   Billing and policy fees, which are a component of other revenues, are allocated as a reduction of underwriting expenses.  In addition, fee income is allocated as a reduction of losses and loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses as follows:
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
(1)  Based on 12 months of rolling net written premiums.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
(1)  Before policyholder dividends.
(2)  Billing and policy fees, which are a component of other revenues, are allocated as a reduction of underwriting expenses.  In addition, fee income is allocated as a reduction of losses and loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses as follows:
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
(1)  Includes new and renewal business.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
(1) Before policyholder dividends.
(2) Fee income is allocated as a reduction of losses and loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses as follows:
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
(1)  Billing and policy fees, which are a component of other revenues, are allocated as a reduction of underwriting expenses.  Billing and policy fees are as follows:
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
(1)  Represents Automobile policies sold through agents, brokers and other intermediaries, and excludes direct to consumer.
 
(2)  Billing and policy fees, which are a component of other revenues, are allocated as a reduction of underwriting expenses. Billing and policy fees are as follows:
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
(1)   Represents Homeowners and Other Lines sold through agents, brokers and other intermediaries, and excludes direct to consumer.
 
(2)   Billing and policy fees, which are a component of other revenues, are allocated as a reduction of underwriting expenses. Billing and policy fees are as follows:
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
(1)   Represents incremental premiums, other revenues and claims and expenses of Direct to Consumer business activities included in Personal Insurance operating income (loss).
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
(1)   Preliminary.
 
Certain prior period amounts have been restated to conform to the 2012 presentation.
 
 
 
(1)  Yields are provided for those investments with an embedded book yield.
 
 
 
Fixed Maturities
Quality Characteristics (1)
 
 
(1)  Rated using external rating agencies or by Travelers when a public rating does not exist.  Below investment grade assets refer to securities rated "Ba" or below.
 
 
 
(1)  Excludes net unrealized investment gains, net of tax, and is adjusted for cash, receivables for investment sales, payables on investment purchases and accrued investment income.
 
 
 
(1)      Includes the following gross investment gains and gross investment losses related to U.S. Treasury futures, which are settled daily:
 
 
The Company entered into these arrangements as part of its strategy to shorten the duration of the fixed maturity portfolio. In a changing interest rate environment, the change in the value of the futures contracts can be expected to partially offset changes in the value of the fixed maturity portfolio.
 
 
 
The Company's top five reinsurer groups, including retroactive reinsurance, by reinsurance recoverable is as follows:
 
 
The gross reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses represent the current and estimated future amounts due from reinsurers on known and unasserted claims.  The ceded reserves are estimated in a manner consistent with the underlying direct and assumed reserves.  Although this total comprises recoverables due from nearly one thousand different reinsurance entities, about half is attributable to 10 reinsurer groups.
 
The net reinsurance recoverables reflect an allowance for uncollectible reinsurance that is based upon the Company's ongoing review of amounts outstanding, reinsurer solvency, the Company's experience, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors.  Of the total net recoverables due from reinsurers at June 30, 2012, after deducting mandatory pools and associations and structured settlement balances, $4.2 billion, or 80%, were rated by A.M. Best Company.  Of the total rated by A.M. Best Company, 98% were rated A- or better.  The remaining 20% net recoverables from reinsurers were comprised of the following:  6% related to the Company's participation in voluntary pools, 11% related to recoverables from captive insurance companies and 3% were balances from other companies not rated by A.M. Best Company.  In addition, $1.6 billion of the net recoverables were collateralized by letters of credit, funds held and trust agreements at June 30, 2012.
 
The mandatory pools and associations represent various involuntary assigned risk pools that the Company is required to participate in.  These pools principally involve workers' compensation and automobile insurance, which provide various insurance coverages to insureds that otherwise are unable to purchase coverage in the open market.  The costs of these mandatory pools in most states are usually charged back to the participating members in proportion to voluntary writings of related business in that state.  In the event that a member of the pool becomes insolvent, the remaining members assume an additional pro rata share of the pool's liabilities.
 
Included in reinsurance recoverables are certain amounts related to structured settlements, which comprise annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers' compensation claims comprise a significant portion.  In cases where the Company did not receive a release from the claimant, the amount due from the life insurance company related to the structured settlement is included in the Company's consolidated balance sheet as a liability and as a reinsurance recoverable, as the Company retains the contingent liability to pay the claimant in the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments.  The Company would be required to make such payments, to the extent the purchased annuities are not covered by state guaranty associations.
 
The Company's top five groups by structured settlement is as follows:
 
 
(1)  In 1Q 2012, Alleghany Corporation and Transatlantic Holdings, Inc. completed their merger.  As a result, Transatlantic became an operating subsidiary of Alleghany.
 
Certain prior period amounts have been restated to conform to the 2012 presentation.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
(1)  Redeemable anytime with "make-whole" premium.
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
(1) Estimated and Preliminary
 
See Glossary of Financial Measures and Description of Reportable Business Segments on page 35.
 
 
 
Certain prior period amounts have been restated to conform to the 2012 presentation.
 
 
 
 
The following measures are used by the Company's management to evaluate financial performance against historical results and establish targets on a consolidated basis.  In some cases, these measures are considered non-GAAP financial measures under applicable SEC rules because they are not displayed as separate line items in the consolidated financial statements or are not required to be disclosed in the notes to financial statements or, in some cases, include or exclude certain items not ordinarily included or excluded in the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
 
In the opinion of the Company's management, a discussion of these measures provides investors, financial analysts, rating agencies and other financial statement users with a better understanding of the significant factors that comprise the Company's periodic results of operations and how management evaluates the Company's financial performance.  Internally, the Company's management uses these measures to evaluate performance against historical results and establish financial targets on a consolidated basis.
 
Some of these measures exclude net realized gains (losses), net of tax, and/or net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax, which can be significantly impacted by both discretionary and other economic factors and are not necessarily indicative of operating trends.
 
Other companies may calculate these measures differently, and, therefore, their measures may not be comparable to those used by the Company's management.
 
Operating income (loss)
is net income (loss) excluding the after-tax impact of net realized investment gains (losses).  Management uses operating income (loss) to analyze each segment's performance and as a tool in making business decisions.  Financial statement users also consider operating income when analyzing the results and trends of insurance companies.  is operating income (loss) on a per common share basis.
Operating earnings (loss) per share
 
Average shareholders' equity
is (a) the sum of total shareholders' equity excluding preferred stock at the beginning and end of each of the quarters for the period presented divided by (b) the number of quarters in the period presented times two.  is shareholders' equity excluding net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax, net realized investment gains (losses), net of tax, for the period presented and preferred stock.  is average shareholders' equity excluding net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax, for all quarters included in the calculation and, for each quarterly period included in the calculation that quarter's net realized investment gains (losses), net of tax.
Adjusted shareholders' equity
Adjusted average shareholders' equity
 
Return on equity
is the ratio of annualized net income (loss) less preferred dividends to average shareholders' equity for the periods presented  is the ratio of annualized operating income (loss) less preferred dividends to adjusted average shareholders' equity for the periods presented.  In the opinion of the Company's management, these are important indicators of how well management creates value for its shareholders through its operating activities and its capital management.
.
Operating return on equity
 
Underwriting gain (loss)
is net earned premiums and fee income less claims and claim adjustment expenses and insurance-related expenses.  In the opinion of the Company's management, it is important to measure the profitability of each segment excluding the results of investing activities, which are managed separately from the insurance business.  This measure is used to assess each segment's business performance and as a tool in making business decisions.
 
A is a severe loss, resulting from natural and man-made events, including risks such as fire, earthquake, windstorm, explosion, terrorism and other similar events.  Each catastrophe has unique characteristics, and catastrophes are not predictable as to timing or amount.  Their effects are included in net and operating income and claims and claim adjustment expense reserves upon occurrence.  A catastrophe may result in the payment of reinsurance reinstatement premiums and assessments from various pools.  In the opinion of the Company's management, a discussion of the impact of catastrophes is meaningful to users of the financial statements to understand the Company's periodic earnings and the variability in periodic earnings caused by the unpredictable nature of catastrophes.
catastrophe
 
Net favorable (unfavorable) prior year loss reserve development
is the increase or decrease in incurred claims and claim adjustment expenses as a result of the re-estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at successive valuation dates for a given group of claims, which may be related to one or more prior years.  In the opinion of the Company's management, a discussion of loss reserve development is meaningful to users of the financial statements as it allows them to assess the impact between prior and current year development on incurred claims and claim adjustment expenses, net and operating income (loss), and changes in claims and claim adjustment expense reserve levels from period to period.
 
GAAP combined ratio
is the sum of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio (loss and LAE ratio) and the underwriting expense ratio.  For GAAP, the loss and LAE ratio is the ratio of incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses reduced by an allocation of fee income to net earned premiums.  The underwriting expense ratio is the ratio of underwriting expenses incurred reduced by an allocation of fee income, and billing and policy fees to net earned premiums. A GAAP combined ratio under 100% generally indicates an underwriting profit. A GAAP combined ratio over 100% generally indicates an underwriting loss. The GAAP combined ratio is an operating statistic that includes GAAP measures in the numerator and the denominator.
 
GAAP combined ratio excluding the incremental impact of the direct to consumer initiative
is the GAAP combined ratio adjusted to exclude the direct, variable impact of the company's direct-to-consumer initiative in Personal Insurance.  In the opinion of the company's management, this is useful in an analysis of the profitability of the company's ongoing agency business.
 
Gross written premiums
reflect the direct and assumed contractually determined amounts charged to policyholders for the effective period of the contract based on the terms and conditions of the insurance contract.  reflect gross written premiums less premiums ceded to reinsurers.
Net written premiums
 
Book value per share
is total common shareholders' equity divided by the number of common shares outstanding.  is total common shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax impact of net unrealized investment gains and losses, divided by the number of common shares outstanding. In the opinion of the Company's management, adjusted book value is useful in an analysis of a property casualty company's book value as it removes the effect of changing prices on invested assets, (i.e., net unrealized investment gains (losses), net of tax) which do not have an equivalent impact on unpaid claims and claim adjustment expense reserves.
Adjusted book value per share
 
Total capital
is the sum of total shareholders' equity and debt. is the ratio of debt to total capital excluding the after-tax impact of net unrealized investment gains and losses.  In the opinion of the company's management, the debt to capital ratio is useful in an analysis of the company's financial leverage.
 Debt-to-capital ratio excluding net unrealized gain (loss) on investments
 
Statutory surplus
represents the excess of an insurance company's assets over its liabilities in accordance with the statutory accounting practices required by state laws and regulations.
 
Travelers has organized its businesses into the following reportable business segments:
 
Business Insurance -
The Business Insurance segment offers a broad array of property and casualty insurance and insurance-related services to its clients primarily in the United States.  Business Insurance is organized into the following six groups, which collectively comprise Business Insurance Core operations: Select Accounts; Commercial Accounts; National Accounts; Industry-Focused Underwriting including Construction, Technology, Public Sector Services, Oil & Gas, and Agribusiness; Target Risk Underwriting including National Property, Inland Marine, Ocean Marine, Excess Casualty, Boiler & Machinery, and Global Partner Services; and Specialized Distribution including Northland and National Programs.  Business Insurance also includes the Special Liability Group (which manages the Company's asbestos and environmental liabilities) and the assumed reinsurance, and certain international and other runoff operations, which collectively are referred to as Business Insurance Other.
 
Financial, Professional & International Insurance
- The Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment includes surety and financial liability coverages, which primarily use credit-based underwriting processes, as well as property and casualty products that are primarily marketed on a domestic basis in the United Kingdom, Canada and the Republic of Ireland, and on an international basis through Lloyd's.  The segment includes Bond & Financial Products as well as International.
 
Personal Insurance
- The Personal Insurance segment writes a broad range of property and casualty insurance covering individuals' personal risks.  The primary products of automobile and homeowners insurance are complemented by a broad suite of related coverages.


