Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Information with respect to Managements Discussion and Analysis included on pages 30 42 of the companys 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders, is incorporated herein by reference. Forward Looking Statements This document, including exhibits incorporated by reference, contains statements concerning the companys future results and performance that are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Some of these forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking terminology such as believes, will, expects, may, should, approximately, anticipates, indicates, plans and estimates and the negative or other variations of those terms with comparable terminology or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. In particular, some of these forward looking statements deal with expected synergies from the Willamette acquisition, expected effects of domestic and foreign government environmental regulations, First Nation claims, projected capital expenditures, environmental remediation expenditures, certification of forestry practices, future performance of the companys business segments, future pension income, pension contributions, health care plans, the effect of pending litigation on the companys financial position, liquidity or results of operations, sale of approximately 100,000 acres of western Washington timberlands, closure of facilities, debt reduction and future debt to capital ratios, future commitments under operating leases, and similar matters. The accuracy of such statements is subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, including, but not limited to, the effect of general economic conditions, including the level of interest rates and housing starts; market demand for the companys products, which may be tied to the relative strength of various U.S. business segments; performance of the companys manufacturing operations; the successful execution of internal performance plans; the level of competition from domestic and foreign producers; the effect of forestry, 15 Table of Contents Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries PART II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations continued land use, environmental and other governmental regulations; fires, floods and other natural disasters; the companys ability to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses and to realize anticipated cost savings and synergies from these acquisitions; the ability of acquired businesses to perform in accordance with the companys expectations; legal proceedings; and uncertainties affecting insurance recoveries. The company is also a large exporter and is affected by changes in economic activity in Europe and Asia, particularly Japan; changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the relative value of the U.S. dollar to the Euro and the Canadian dollar; and restrictions on international trade or tariffs imposed on imports, including the countervailing and anti dumping duties imposed on the companys softwood lumber shipments from Canada to the United States. These and other factors could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward looking statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Information with respect to market risk of financial instruments included on page 39 of the companys 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
