Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Information with respect to Managements Discussion and Analysis included on pages 30 41 of the companys 2003 Annual Report to Shareholders, is incorporated herein by reference. The companys expectations of segment performance in the first quarter of 2004 follow. Timberlands The company expects that the Timberlands segments contribution to earnings in the first quarter of 2004 will be higher than the fourth quarter of 2003, excluding the 2003 pretax gains on the sale on nonstrategic timberlands in the Carolinas and Tennessee, due primarily to higher domestic log sales volumes and prices in the West and higher seasonal fee harvest in the South. Wood Products Lumber and OSB prices increased early in the first quarter of 2004 as customers began accumulating inventories in anticipation of a strong building season. The increase in OSB prices was particularly sharp. High OSB prices will adversely impact first quarter earnings for the engineered lumber products business, but will be partially offset by first quarter price increases. Lumber and OSB prices are sensitive to weather related disruptions, however the company expects these disruptions to be minimal in the first quarter. Woods Products prices have remained strong throughout the first quarter and first quarter earnings for the segment are expected to be above fourth quarter 2003 levels. The company expects Wood Products earnings to continue to be adversely affected by the Canadian softwood lumber issue. 16 Table of Contents Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries PART II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations continued Pulp and Paper Pulp and Papers loss is expected to narrow in the first quarter of 2004 due to increased demand for fine paper, reduced downtime and improving softwood pulp markets. The company has implemented price increases for pulp and has announced additional price increases for both pulp and paper in the first quarter of 2004. In addition, the company will continue to focus on inventory management to match supply with demand and will assess rationalization, as necessary. Containerboard, Packaging and Recycling Earnings for this segment in the first quarter of 2004 are expected to be down from the fourth quarter of 2003 due primarily to lower average box prices in the first quarter, which reflect the impact of fourth quarter 2003 index price declines, and higher raw material costs. The company announced a price increase of $40 per ton on containerboard effective March 1, 2004, and an additional $10 per ton increase, effective April 1, 2004. The Company has also announced box price increases to reflect higher containerboard prices. However, because of various customer contract provisions, impacts of the price increase are not expected to be realized until the second quarter. Volumes are expected to improve seasonally and year over year during the first quarter of 2004, and increases in operating rates are expected to result in lower manufacturing costs during the first quarter of 2004. In addition, the company will continue to focus on inventory management to match supply with demand and will assess rationalization, as necessary. Real Estate and Related Assets First quarter earnings for Real Estate and Related Assets are expected to be comparable to fourth quarter of 2003, as markets are expected to remain strong. Real Estate and Related Assets has a backlog of approximately six months of homes sold, but not closed. Forward Looking Statements Some information included in this report contains statements concerning the companys future results and performance that are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Some of these forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking terminology such as believes, will, expects, may, should, approximately, anticipates, indicates, plans, and estimates, and the negative or other variations of those terms with comparable terminology or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. In particular, some of these forward looking statements deal with the impact of forest management programs and sustainable forest management systems, the anticipated impact of the Canadian federal species at risk act (SARA), the expected impact of the resolution of Canadian aboriginal land claims, projected capital expenditures for environmental compliance and other capital expenditures, projected environmental remediation expenses, expected contributions to first quarter 2004 earnings by, or the narrowing of first quarter 2004 losses for, some of the companys business segments, expectations regarding first quarter 2004 operating results and market conditions, including expectations regarding sales, volumes, prices and demand for some of the companys products and raw materials, expectations regarding operating rates, manufacturing costs and backlog and the anticipated reduction in downtime in the Pulp and Paper segment, projected debt reduction and return to historical debt ratios, expected rate of return on pension plan assets, projected effects of reduction in returns and assumed discount rates on pension expense, expected contributions to pension plans, intent regarding dividend payments, expectations regarding the outcome of pending litigation, expectations regarding the adequacy of litigation reserves, expectations regarding the adequacy of the companys capital resources and liquidity to post any appeal bonds or to pay any damage awards required in connection with pending or future litigation, and similar matters. The accuracy of such statements is subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, including, but not limited to: The effect of general economic conditions, including the level of interest rates and housing starts; Market demand for the companys products, which may be tied to the relative strength of various business segments; Energy prices and raw material costs; Performance of the companys manufacturing operations; Successful execution of internal performance plans; 17 Table of Contents Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries PART II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations continued The level of competition from domestic and foreign producers; The effect of forestry, land use, environmental and other governmental regulations; Risk of loss from fires, floods and other natural disasters; The outcome of legal proceedings, including requirements that the company record charges, establish reserves or pay damages; and Performance of pension fund investments. The company is also a large exporter and is affected by changes in economic activity in Europe and Asia, particularly Japan, and by changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the relative value of the U.S. dollar to the Euro and the Canadian dollar, and restrictions on international trade or tariffs imposed on imports, including the countervailing and anti dumping duties imposed on the companys softwood lumber shipments from Canada to the United States. These and other factors could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward looking statements and, accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward looking statements will occur, or if any of them occurs, what effect they will have on the companys results of operations or financial condition. The company expressly declines any obligation to publicly revise any forward looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date of this report. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Information with respect to market risk of financial instruments included on pages 38 39 of the companys 2003 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations continued Pulp and Paper Pulp and Papers loss is expected to narrow in the first quarter of 2004 due to increased demand for fine paper, reduced downtime and improving softwood pulp markets. The company has implemented price increases for pulp and has announced additional price increases for both pulp and paper in the first quarter of 2004. In addition, the company will continue to focus on inventory management to match supply with demand and will assess rationalization, as necessary. Containerboard, Packaging and Recycling Earnings for this segment in the first quarter of 2004 are expected to be down from the fourth quarter of 2003 due primarily to lower average box prices in the first quarter, which reflect the impact of fourth quarter 2003 index price declines, and higher raw material costs. The company announced a price increase of $40 per ton on containerboard effective March 1, 2004, and an additional $10 per ton increase, effective April 1, 2004. The Company has also announced box price increases to reflect higher containerboard prices. However, because of various customer contract provisions, impacts of the price increase are not expected to be realized until the second quarter. Volumes are expected to improve seasonally and year over year during the first quarter of 2004, and increases in operating rates are expected to result in lower manufacturing costs during the first quarter of 2004. In addition, the company will continue to focus on inventory management to match supply with demand and will assess rationalization, as necessary. Real Estate and Related Assets First quarter earnings for Real Estate and Related Assets are expected to be comparable to fourth quarter of 2003, as markets are expected to remain strong. Real Estate and Related Assets has a backlog of approximately six months of homes sold, but not closed. Forward Looking Statements Some information included in this report contains statements concerning the companys future results and performance that are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Some of these forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking terminology such as believes, will, expects, may, should, approximately, anticipates, indicates, plans, and estimates, and the negative or other variations of those terms with comparable terminology or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. In particular, some of these forward looking statements deal with the impact of forest management programs and sustainable forest management systems, the anticipated impact of the Canadian federal species at risk act (SARA), the expected impact of the resolution of Canadian aboriginal land claims, projected capital expenditures for environmental compliance and other capital expenditures, projected environmental remediation expenses, expected contributions to first quarter 2004 earnings by, or the narrowing of first quarter 2004 losses for, some of the companys business segments, expectations regarding first quarter 2004 operating results and market conditions, including expectations regarding sales, volumes, prices and demand for some of the companys products and raw materials, expectations regarding operating rates, manufacturing costs and backlog and the anticipated reduction in downtime in the Pulp and Paper segment, projected debt reduction and return to historical debt ratios, expected rate of return on pension plan assets, projected effects of reduction in returns and assumed discount rates on pension expense, expected contributions to pension plans, intent regarding dividend payments, expectations regarding the outcome of pending litigation, expectations regarding the adequacy of litigation reserves, expectations regarding the adequacy of the companys capital resources and liquidity to post any appeal bonds or to pay any damage awards required in connection with pending or future litigation, and similar matters. The accuracy of such statements is subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, including, but not limited to: The effect of general economic conditions, including the level of interest rates and housing starts; Market demand for the companys products, which may be tied to the relative strength of various business segments; Energy prices and raw material costs; Performance of the companys manufacturing operations; Successful execution of internal performance plans; 17 Table of Contents Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries PART II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations continued The level of competition from domestic and foreign producers; The effect of forestry, land use, environmental and other governmental regulations; Risk of loss from fires, floods and other natural disasters; The outcome of legal proceedings, including requirements that the company record charges, establish reserves or pay damages; and Performance of pension fund investments. The company is also a large exporter and is affected by changes in economic activity in Europe and Asia, particularly Japan, and by changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the relative value of the U.S. dollar to the Euro and the Canadian dollar, and restrictions on international trade or tariffs imposed on imports, including the countervailing and anti dumping duties imposed on the companys softwood lumber shipments from Canada to the United States. These and other factors could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward looking statements and, accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward looking statements will occur, or if any of them occurs, what effect they will have on the companys results of operations or financial condition. The company expressly declines any obligation to publicly revise any forward looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date of this report. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Information with respect to market risk of financial instruments included on pages 38 39 of the companys 2003 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations continued The level of competition from domestic and foreign producers; The effect of forestry, land use, environmental and other governmental regulations; Risk of loss from fires, floods and other natural disasters; The outcome of legal proceedings, including requirements that the company record charges, establish reserves or pay damages; and Performance of pension fund investments. The company is also a large exporter and is affected by changes in economic activity in Europe and Asia, particularly Japan, and by changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the relative value of the U.S. dollar to the Euro and the Canadian dollar, and restrictions on international trade or tariffs imposed on imports, including the countervailing and anti dumping duties imposed on the companys softwood lumber shipments from Canada to the United States. These and other factors could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward looking statements and, accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward looking statements will occur, or if any of them occurs, what effect they will have on the companys results of operations or financial condition. The company expressly declines any obligation to publicly revise any forward looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date of this report. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Information with respect to market risk of financial instruments included on pages 38 39 of the companys 2003 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
