FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20040610100202.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.
Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure.
Harris Corporation ("Harris" or the "Company") changed its segment reporting structure effective May 28, 2004, in conjunction with the sale of its telecom tools, test sets and test systems product line to a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation. As a result of the sale, Harris has eliminated the Network Support segment as a separate reportable segment. The Harris NetBoss network operations software business, which was part of the Network Support segment, was not included in the sale and will be consolidated into the Microwave Communications reporting segment. The intercompany transactions between the Microwave Communications segment and the Harris NetBoss network operations software business have been eliminated within the revised Microwave Communications segment's results. Additionally, "corporate eliminations" have been revised to reflect this change.
TM
TM
The telecom tools, test sets and test systems product line will be reported as a discontinued operation. Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States of America require that when a company changes its reportable segments or when a component of an entity, such as the telecom tools, test sets and test systems product line, has been reported as a discontinued operation, financial statements for prior periods must also be reported using the new segment reporting structure or report the financial results of the component in discontinued operations.
The purpose of this Form 8-K is to present revised condensed consolidated statements of income and business segment information reflecting the Company's (1) revised segment reporting structure pursuant to which the Network Support segment will no longer be a separate reporting segment and the Harris NetBoss network operating software business is combined with the Microwave Communications reporting segment, and (2) telecom tools, test sets and test systems product line as a discontinued operation for fiscal 2003, each quarter of fiscal 2003 and each of the first three quarters of fiscal 2004. Such financials are filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
TM
Item 7.
Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit 99.1
 


