FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20050706164538.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On June 30, 2005, Harris Corporation ("Harris") entered into Amendment Number Eleven (the "Amendment") to the Harris Corporation Retirement Plan (the "Plan") that changed the profit sharing contribution formula under the Plan. The Amendment replaces the current profit sharing contribution formula based on Harris adjusted consolidated net income with a new formula based on Harris earnings per share. The new profit sharing contribution formula provides that each Plan year, commencing with Harris 2006 fiscal year, a profit sharing contribution will be made with respect to each eligible participant in an amount equal to a specified percentage of such participants eligible compensation (not to exceed 6%), with the applicable percentage determined based on Harris earnings per share for such Plan year as compared to an earnings per share plan target and maximum and minimum earnings per share targets established by the Board of Directors of Harris (the "Board") or the Management Development and Compensation Committee for such Plan year. Additionally, the calculation of earnings per share, the applicable percentages and the profit sharing contribution are subject to certain limitations relating to Harris net profits and to certain potential adjustments by the Board or the Management Development and Compensation Committee for unusual or nonrecurring events affecting Harris or its financial statements or changes in applicable laws, regulations or accounting principles. The foregoing summary description of the Amendment is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of Amendment Number Eleven to the Harris Corporation Retirement Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. The Amendment follows Amendment Number Ten to the Harris Corporation Retirement Plan, a non-material amendment to the definition of "compensation" under the Pl an entered into by Harris on June 8, 2005, pursuant to approval of Harris Employee Benefits Committee in accordance with the terms of the Plan, which Amendment Number Ten is filed for purposes of completeness as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On June 29, 2005, Joseph L. Dionne, having reached the mandatory retirement age of 72 as specified in Harris Corporate Governance Principles, submitted his resignation as a director of Harris Corporation, effective June 30, 2005. Effective upon Mr. Dionnes resignation, the Board decreased the authorized number of directors constituting the Board from eleven to ten.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K: 10.1 Amendment Number Ten to the Harris Corporation Retirement Plan, dated as of June 8, 2005. 10.2 Amendment Number Eleven to the Harris Corporation Retirement Plan, dated as of June 30, 2005.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 10.1
WHEREAS, Harris Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation"), has heretofore adopted and maintained the Harris Corporation Retirement Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2003 (the "Plan");
WHEREAS, the Corporation, by action of the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Corporation's Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee"), has the authority to amend the Plan pursuant to Section 17.1 of the Plan;
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 13.3 of the Plan, the Compensation Committee has delegated to the Employee Benefits Committee of the Corporation (the "Employee Benefits Committee") the authority to adopt non-material Plan amendments; and
WHEREAS, the Corporation, by action of the Employee Benefits Committee, desires to amend the Plan in certain non-material respects.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that pursuant to the power of amendment in Section 17.1 of the Plan and the delegation of such power pursuant to Section 13.3 of the Plan, the Plan is hereby amended, effective as of the applicable date indicated below, as follows:
Effective January 1, 2005, the definition of "Compensation" in Article 2 of the Plan is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
1. 
". The following items of remuneration which a Participant earns for work or personal services performed for an Employer: (a) salary or wages, including lump sum merit increases; (b) commission paid pursuant to a sales incentive plan; (c) overtime premium, shift differential or additional compensation in lieu of overtime premium; (d) compensation in lieu of vacation; (e) any annual bonus or incentive compensation payable in the form of cash pursuant to the Harris Corporation Annual Incentive Plan or any successor thereto or other similar plan or award program adopted from time to time by an Employer or any stock award made in lieu of an annual cash bonus or incentive compensation; (f) any compensation of a type described in items (a) through (e) above which is paid as an employee contribution to the Plan; (g) any salary reduction contributions to a cafeteria plan (within the meaning of section 125 of the Code) or a non-qualified deferred compensation plan maintained by an Employer; or (h) any salary reduction contributions to an arrangement maintained by an Employer providing qualified transportation fringes (within the meaning of section 132(f)(4) of the Code). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following items shall be excluded from "Compensation": (i) any extraordinary compensation of a recurring or non-recurring nature not included under items (a) through (h) above, including one-time recognition awards and rewards under a referral program of an Employer; (ii) any award made or amount paid pursuant to the Harris Corporation Stock Incentive Plan or any successor thereto, including, but not limited to, performance shares, stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights or other stock-based awards or dividend equivalents; (iii) severance pay, separation pay or special retirement pay; (iv) retention bonuses or completion bonuses, unless authorized by the Administrative Committee in a uniform and nondiscriminatory manner to be included in Compensation; (v) reimbursement or allowances with respect to expenses incurred in connection with employment,
Compensation
such as tax equalization, reimbursement for moving expenses, mileage or expense allowance or education expenses; or (vi) indirect compensation such as employer-paid group insurance premiums or contributions under this Plan or any other qualified employee benefit plan, other than a contribution described in item (f) or (g) above."
APPROVED by the HARRIS CORPORATION EMPLOYEE BENEFITS COMMITTEE on this 8 day of June, 2005.
th
Attest:
/
s/John D. Gronda
     
Secretary

Exhibit 10.2
WHEREAS, Harris Corporation, a Delaware corporation, (the "Corporation"), has heretofore adopted and maintains the Harris Corporation Retirement Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2003 (the "Plan"), and as amended prior to the date hereof;
WHEREAS, the Corporation, by action of the Corporation's Board of Directors, and upon recommendation from the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, has the authority to amend the Plan pursuant to Section 17.1 of the Plan;
WHEREAS, the Corporation's Board of Director's, at its meeting held on June 24, 2005, authorized the Corporation to amend the Plan and directed the President, any Vice President, the Corporate Secretary, the Treasurer and any Assistant Treasurer and such other persons as are delegated by them to execute all such instruments, documents and certificates that such person deems necessary, advisable or appropriate in connection with such amendment.
NOW, THEREFORE, pursuant to such authorization and direction, I do hereby execute the following amendment as adopted and approved by the Corporation's Board of Directors on June 24, 2005, to be effective on the first day of the Plan's 2005 Plan Year:
1. Article 2 of the Plan is hereby amended by deleting the definition of "Adjusted Consolidated Net Income" in its entirety.
2. Article 2 of the Plan is hereby amended by inserting the following new definition of "Earnings Per Share" immediately after the definition of "Disability" where it occurs therein:
". The net income per share of Harris Stock (on a diluted basis) for the applicable Plan Year, as determined by the Company and as publicly reported in filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission or otherwise. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, for purposes of this Plan the Earnings Per Share may be increased, decreased or otherwise adjusted by the Management Development and Compensation Committee or the Board at any time before the EPS Profit Sharing Contribution is paid to the Trust for such Plan Year in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements or changes in applicable laws, regulations or accounting principles, including, without limitation: (1) any stock dividend, stock split, combination of  shares, recapitalization, or other change in the capital structure of the Company, (2) any merger, consolidation, spin-off, split-off, spin-out, split-up, reorganization, partial or complete liquidation, or other distribution of assets or issuance of rights or warrants to purchase securities, (3) any other corporate transaction or event having an effect similar to any of the foregoing or (4) any other nonrecurring event."
Earnings Per Share
3. Article 2 of the Plan is hereby amended by inserting the following new definition of "Eligible Profit Sharing Participant" immediately after the definition of "Eligible Employee" where it occurs therein:
". For any Plan Year, a Participant who has completed a Year of Service on or prior to the last day of the applicable Plan Year and who (a) is actively employed as an Eligible Employee on the earlier of (i) the last day of such Plan Year or (ii) the June 30th nearest to the last day of such Plan Year (the "Eligibility Date"); (b) was actively employed as an Eligible Employee during such Plan Year but is not actively employed on the Eligibility Date due to Leave of Absence or a period of Qualified Military Service; or (c) was actively employed as an Eligible Employee during such Plan Year but terminated employment during such Plan Year (i) on or after the attainment of age 55, (ii) due to death or Disability, (iii) as a result of a Reduction in Force or (iv) as a result of a transfer from employment with an Employer to employment with an Affiliate that is not an Employer."
Eligible Profit Sharing Participant
4. The definition of "Excess Compensation" in Article 2 of the Plan is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
". The portion of a Participant's Compensation that exceeds the Taxable Wage Base for the applicable Plan Year."
Excess Compensation
5. The second sentence of Section 3.3 of the Plan is hereby amended by deleting the parenthetical phrase ", except as otherwise provided in Section 8.6(a)," therefrom.
6. Section 4.3 of the Plan is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"
Section 4.3.
Profit Sharing Contributions.
"(a) .
EPS Profit Sharing Contributions
(1) Subject to the limitations below and set forth in Article 6 and Section 8.6(c), for each Plan Year the Employers shall make a profit sharing contribution (the "EPS Profit Sharing Contribution") to the Trust on behalf of each Eligible Profit Sharing Participant in an amount equal to a specified percentage of such Participant's Compensation; provided however, that a EPS Profit Sharing Contribution shall not be made for any Plan Year in which the Company does not have any net profits (which, for this purpose, are defined as net income or profits for the Plan Year determined on the basis of the Company's books of account in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, without any reduction for taxes based upon income or for contributions made to this Plan or any qualified retirement plan). The EPS Profit Sharing Contribution (if any) shall be allocated to the Account of each Eligible Profit Sharing Participant in the manner and amounts provided as follows:
(i) Percentage applicable to Compensation up to the Taxable Wage Base,
(ii) The EPS Profit Sharing Contribution percentage applicable to Excess Compensation will be double the percentage applicable for Compensation up to the Taxable Wage Base, subject to the restrictions in Section 8.6(c).
(iii) For purposes of determining the amount of the EPS Profit Sharing Contribution hereunder, if Earnings Per Share for a particular Plan Year exceeds the Minimum Earnings Per Share Target but is less than the Maximum Target Earnings Per Share Target, the EPS Profit Sharing Contribution shall be determined using straight line interpolations.
(iv) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the total EPS Profit Sharing Contribution amount exceed the Company's net profits (as previously defined) for the Plan Year.
(2) No later than 90 days after the first day of each Plan Year, the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board or the Board shall establish the Minimum Earnings Per Share Target and the Maximum Earnings Per Share Target for such Plan Year."
Establishment of Earnings Per Share Targets.
(b)  Subject to the limitations set forth in Article 6 and 8.6, the Employers, at the direction of the Company, may, in their discretion, make a profit sharing contribution for a Plan Year (in addition to the EPS Profit Sharing Contribution made pursuant to subsection (a) above, if any) in a specified dollar amount or pursuant to a formula, to be allocated to Eligible Profit Sharing Participants in accordance with the following formula. A special profit sharing contribution for a Plan Year made pursuant to this Section 4.3(b) shall be allocated among the Eligible Profit Sharing Participants in the proportion that the aggregate of the Compensation and Excess Compensation paid by the Employers or the Company to each such Eligible Profit Sharing Participant during such Plan Year bears to the aggregate of the total Compensation and Excess Compensation paid by the Employers or the Company to all such Eligible Profit Sharing Participants during such Plan Year."
Special Profit Sharing Contributions.
7. Section 8.6 of the Plan is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"
Section 8.6. Allocation of Profit Sharing Contributions.
(a) . Profit sharing contributions for a Plan Year shall be allocated among the Eligible Profit Sharing Participants in accordance with the formulas specified in Section 4.3.
Amount
(b) . A profit sharing contribution made by the Employers or the Company pursuant to Section 4.3 for a Plan Year shall be allocated to the Profit Sharing Accounts of Eligible Profit Sharing Participants as of the last day of such Plan Year; provided, however, that such contributions shall be credited to such Participant's Profit Sharing Accounts as of the Valuation Date coinciding with or next following the date on which the profit sharing contribution is delivered to the Trustee.
Timing of Allocation
(c) . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, the amount allocated to an Eligible Profit Sharing Participant with respect to Excess Compensation shall not exceed the "base contribution percentage" by more than the lesser of (i) the base contribution percentage and (ii) 5.7% (or if greater, the percentage equal to the Old Age portion of the tax under section 3111(a) of the Code, as in effect on the first day of the Plan Year). Any remaining amount shall be allocated based on the ratio of each Eligible Profit Sharing Participant's Compensation for the Plan Year to the Compensation of all Eligible Participants for the Plan Year. The term "base contribution percentage" means the percentage of Compensation of an Eligible Profit Sharing Participant contributed by the Employers or the Company with respect to such Participant's Compensation not in excess of the Participant's Taxable Wage Base.
Limitation on Amount
8. The last sentence of the last paragraph of Section 16.3 of the Plan is hereby amended by deleting the reference to "Section 8.6" where it occurs therein and substituting "Sections 4.3 and 8.6" therefor.
9. Section 17.4(b)(1) of the Plan is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"(1) Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, the amount of the EPS Profit Sharing Contribution for the Plan Year ending on the last day of the Restriction Period shall be in an amount not less than the amount that would be determined as if the Earnings Per Share had reached the midpoint between the Minimum Earnings Per Share Target and Maximum Earnings Per Share Target as originally approved for the Plan Year; notwithstanding actual results or any changes or modifications occurring after any such Change of Control."
EXECUTED this 30 day of June 2005.
HARRIS CORPORATION
/s/ H. L. Lance


