FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20051102181008.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan.
     At the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Harris Corporation ("" or the "") held on October 28, 2005 (the ""), the Company's shareholders approved the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the ""). The 2005 Equity Plan was approved by the Company's Board of Directors ("") on August 27, 2005, subject to its approval by shareholders, and is effective October 28, 2005. The purpose of the 2005 Equity Plan is to promote our long-term growth and performance and to increase shareholder value by providing long-term incentive awards to employees and directors.
Harris
Company
Annual Meeting
2005 Equity Plan
Board
     The 2005 Equity Plan will be administered by a committee of the Board (the "Committee") appointed to administer the 2005 Equity Plan. The Committee will be composed of not fewer than three non-employee directors, each of whom will be a "Non-Employee Director" for purposes of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended (the "") and Rule 16b-3 thereunder; an "outside director" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "") and the regulations promulgated thereunder; and an independent director as defined by the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange (""). Initially, the Board has designated the Management Development and Compensation Committee to administer the 2005 Equity Plan. Subject to the provisions of the 2005 Equity Plan, the Committee has the discretion to determine the terms of each award and the persons to whom awards are granted. The Committee may delegate to one or more of our officers the authority to grant awards (other than grants to any director, executive officer or person subject to Section 162(m) of the Code) under the 2005 Equity Plan. The Committee will interpret the 2005 Equity Plan and awards granted thereunder, and all determinations of the Committee will be final, conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in the 2005 Equity Plan or any award.
Administration.
Exchange Act
Code
NYSE
     The maximum number of shares with respect to which awards may be issued or delivered under the 2005 Equity Plan (subject to adjustment as set forth below) is 20,000,000. Subject to adjustment as described below, no more than 7,000,000 of such shares shall be available for issuance pursuant to incentive stock options, no more than 1,000,000 of such shares may be issued or delivered as "other share-based awards" and no more than 1,000,000 of such shares may be issued or delivered to non-employee directors in respect of deferred units. Any shares issued or delivered as a result of "Full-Value Awards" under the 2005 Equity Plan shall be counted as 1.60 shares for the purpose of the overall share limit. "Full-Value Awards" include cash-based units, deferred units, performance shares, performance units, restricted stock, restricted units and all "other share-based awards," but does not include options or stock appreciation rights. Shares issued by us as substitute awards granted in connection with the assumption of outstanding awards previously granted by a company acquired by us, or with which we combine, do not reduce the number of shares available for awards under the 2005 Equity Plan.
Shares Available For Award.
     Subject to adjustment as set forth below, the maximum number of shares with respect to which options and stock appreciation rights ("") may be granted to any one participant during any fiscal year is 1,000,000 shares. The initial target number of shares subject to awards of performance shares, performance units or other Full-Value Awards intended to qualify as performance-based compensation granted to any one participant in any fiscal year shall not exceed 500,000 shares and in no event shall the number of shares ultimately issued exceed 200% of the initial target number of shares. In no event will any participant in any fiscal year receive awards of cash-based units having an aggregate maximum value on their respective grant dates in excess of $6,000,000.
Individual Participant Limits.
SARs
     The maximum number of shares with respect to which awards may be granted under the 2005 Equity Plan will be increased by the number of shares with respect to which options or other awards were granted under our predecessor stock incentive plans as of October 28, 2005, but which expire or terminate unexercised, or are forfeited or cancelled without delivery of the shares under the terms of our predecessor plans after October 28, 2005. Further, to the extent that any award granted under the 2005 Equity Plan is forfeited or otherwise terminates without delivery of shares or terminates without having been exercised, any shares underlying such award will again be available for grant under the 2005 Equity Plan to the extent of such forfeiture or termination. Shares will not be treated as having been issued under the 2005 Equity Plan and will therefore not reduce the number of shares available for grant to the extent an award is settled in cash. Shares tendered to us as full or partial payment of the exercise or purchase price of any award or withheld by us in satisfaction of a tax withholding obligation will not again become available under the 2005 Equity Plan. The number of shares available under the 2005 Equity Plan will be reduced upon the exercise of an SAR by the gross number of shares subject to that SAR.
Share Counting and Adjustments.
     The number of shares authorized under the 2005 Equity Plan, the maximum award limitations set forth in the 2005 Equity Plan, the number of shares subject to outstanding awards and the exercise price, base price, purchase price or option price and other relevant provisions of the 2005 Equity Plan and outstanding awards may be adjusted by the Committee or the Board, in its discretion, to reflect a change in our capitalization. Such adjustments may include a substitution for alternative consideration (including cash) and may be made as a result of a recapitalization, repurchase, rights offering, reorganization, merger, consolidation, combination, exchange of shares, spin-off, spin-out or other distribution of assets to shareholders or other similar corporate transaction or event. In the event of a stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, share combination or similar event, the maximum number of shares authorized under the 2005 Equity Plan, the maximum award limitations, the number of shares subject to outstanding awards, the
Table of Contents
exercise price, base price, purchase or option price and other relevant provisions of the 2005 Equity Plan and outstanding awards will be proportionately and automatically adjusted to reflect such event.
     Without the approval of a majority of the votes cast at a meeting of our shareholders, other than in connection with a change in our capitalization, options or SARs may not be repriced, replaced, regranted through cancellation or modified if the effect thereof would be to reduce the exercise or base price of such options or SARs.
Prohibition of Option and SAR Repricing.
     Awards may be granted to employees or non-employee directors of Harris or any subsidiary or affiliate of Harris.
Eligibility.
     Awards under the 2005 Equity Plan may be in the form of performance shares, performance units, cash-based units, restricted stock, restricted units, options, SARs, deferred units (which may only be awarded to non-employee directors), or other share-based awards.
Types of Awards.
     Unless the Committee determines otherwise at the time of grant of a particular award, and as set forth in the applicable award agreement, and subject to certain limitations imposed by Section 409A of the Code, upon the occurrence of a "Change of Control" (as defined in the 2005 Equity Plan): (i) any awards outstanding as of the date of such Change of Control that are subject to vesting requirements and are not then vested, will become fully vested; (ii) all then-outstanding options and SARs will be fully vested and immediately exercisable, except that no option or SAR will be exercisable beyond its original expiration date; and (iii) all restrictions regarding the restriction period and any other conditions prescribed by the Committee with respect to grants of performance shares, performance units, restricted stock, restricted units, or other stock-based awards, shall automatically lapse, expire and terminate and all such awards will be deemed to be fully earned.
Change of Control.
     Further, within 90 days after a Change of Control (or such other number of days as is required under Section 409A of the Code in connection with the Change of Control), Harris must pay to each non-employee director, in a lump sum, any deferred units that have been credited to that non-employee director's account.
     The 2005 Equity Plan will continue in effect until its termination by the Committee, except that all awards must be granted within 10 years from the effective date of its adoption. Until such time as a Change of Control has occurred, the Board may, to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code, amend, suspend or terminate the 2005 Equity Plan or any part thereof from time to time, provided that no change may be made which would adversely impair the rights of a participant who has received an award without the consent of such participant, and provided that if an amendment to the 2005 Equity Plan (i) would materially increase the benefits accruing to participants under the 2005 Equity Plan, (ii) would increase the number of shares which may be issued under the 2005 Equity Plan, (iii) would materially modify the requirements for participation in the 2005 Equity Plan or (iv) must otherwise be approved by our shareholders in order to comply with applicable law or the rules of the NYSE or, if the common stock is not traded on the NYSE, the principal national securities exchange upon which the common stock is traded or quoted, then such amendment will be subject to shareholder approval and will not be effective unless and until such approval has been obtained. After a Change of Control, the Board will no longer have the power to amend, suspend or terminate the 2005 Equity Plan or any part thereof.
Termination or Amendment.
     Except as described in the following, no award granted under the 2005 Equity Plan may be sold, encumbered, or otherwise transferred by a participant except by will or the laws of descent and distribution in the event of the participant's death (to the extent such award, by its terms, survives the participant's death). The Committee may, in its discretion, expressly authorize transfer by a participant of options (other than incentive stock options) or SARs on certain conditions.
Limits on Transferability.
     If any of our financial statements are restated as a result of errors, omissions, or fraud, the Committee may (in its sole discretion, but acting in good faith) direct that we recover all or a portion of any such award or payment made to any, all or any class of participants with respect to any fiscal year of Harris the financial results of which are negatively affected by such restatement.
Impact of Restatement of Financial Statements upon Previous Awards.
     A summary description of the 2005 Equity Plan is set forth in the Company's Proxy Statement dated September 16, 2005, under the heading "Summary of Certain Terms of the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan," which description is incorporated herein by reference. Such description and the summary description of the 2005 Equity Plan contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Harris Corporation 2005 Annual Incentive Plan.
     At the Annual Meeting, the Company's shareholders approved the Harris Corporation 2005 Annual Incentive Plan (the ""). The 2005 Annual Incentive Plan was approved by the Board on August 27, 2005, with an effective date of July 2, 2005, subject to approval by shareholders.
2005 Annual Incentive Plan
     The 2005 Annual Incentive Plan will be administered by a committee of the Board appointed to administer the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan, except that with respect to participation in the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan by our chief executive
Administration.
Table of Contents
officer or any other executive officer who is also a member of the Board, the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan will be administered by the Committee together with the independent directors of the Board. The Committee will be composed of not fewer than three non-employee directors, each of whom will be an independent director. Initially, the Board has designated the Management Development and Compensation Committee to administer the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan. The Committee may delegate to one or more of our officers the authority to grant awards (other than to an executive officer or any person subject to 162(m) of the Code) under the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan. The Committee will interpret the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan and awards granted thereunder, and all determinations of the Committee will be final, conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan or any award.
     Awards may be granted to salaried employees of Harris or any subsidiary or affiliate of Harris who are selected by the Board, the Committee or our Chief Executive Officer.
Eligibility.
     For any participant in the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan who is a Harris executive officer covered by Section 162(m) of the Code:
Participation by Executive Officers.
      that participant's annual incentive award payable under the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan for a fiscal year of Harris will be based solely on achievement of one or more of the performance objectives established by the Committee and the Committee will not have the discretion to increase the amount of the award payable under the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan but the Committee may reduce the amount of any award so payable; and
 - 
      no annual incentive award intended to be a "qualified performance-based award" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code will be payable to that participant under the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan unless the Committee certifies that that participant's performance objectives have been satisfied to a particular extent and that any other material terms and conditions to payment of an award to that participant under the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan have been satisfied.
 - 
     Further, the maximum award payable under the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan to any participant who is an executive officer of Harris for any fiscal year of Harris will be $6,000,000, provided that if a participant is not a participant for the entire fiscal year, the maximum amount payable shall be pro-rated based on the number of days the individual was a participant.
     Participants will have the payout of their annual incentive awards, if any, determined on the basis of the degree of achievement of performance objectives which will be established by the Committee and will be stated in terms of the attainment of specified levels of or percentage changes (as compared to a prior measurement period) in any one or more of the performance objectives. The Committee will, for each fiscal year, establish the performance objectives to apply to each participant and a formula or matrix prescribing the extent to which that participant's "target" annual incentive award will be earned based upon the degree of achievement of those performance objectives. In no event, however, will the maximum payout to that participant exceed 200% of that target annual incentive award. With respect to awards intended to be "qualified performance-based awards," the Committee will determine the target annual incentive award, performance objectives and any related formula or matrix for each participant not later than 90 calendar days after the beginning of a fiscal year of Harris. Payouts will, subject to any deferral required or permitted by the Committee, be made after the end of the applicable fiscal year.
Awards; Performance Objectives.
     Subject to the requirements described above under "Participation by Executive Officers," the Committee may, in its sole discretion, award or increase the amount of an annual incentive award payable to a participant even though not earned in accordance with the performance objectives established for that participant, or, in the event of any unusual or nonrecurring events affecting Harris or its financial statements or changes in applicable laws, regulations or accounting principles, decrease the amount of an annual incentive award otherwise payable to a participant even though earned in accordance with the performance goals established for that participant.
     Except to the extent otherwise provided by the Committee, if a participant's employment with Harris, or any subsidiary or affiliate of Harris, is terminated for any reason prior to the last day of a fiscal year of Harris, then, except in the case of death, disability or normal retirement, or an involuntary termination due to a reduction in force or except as provided below under "Change of Control," the participant will forfeit the award and will not be entitled to a payment of the annual incentive award. If a participant's employment is terminated during a fiscal year of Harris due to death, disability, normal retirement or involuntary termination caused by a reduction in force, the participant will be entitled to a payment, pro-rated based on the number of days the individual was a participant in the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan for such fiscal year, of the annual incentive award that would have been payable if the participant had been a participant on the last day of the fiscal year. A leave of absence, approved by the Committee, will not be deemed to be a termination of employment for purposes of the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan.
Termination of Employment.
     Upon the occurrence of a "Change of Control" (as defined under the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan), we will pay, as promptly as practicable following the effective date of the Change of Control, any awards payable to participants. The payment to each participant will be an amount not less than the target award as originally approved for the fiscal year of Harris, notwithstanding actual results or any changes or modifications occurring after any such Change of Control.
Change of Control.
     The 2005 Annual Incentive Plan will continue in effect until its termination by the Committee.
Termination or Amendment.
Table of Contents
Until such time as a Change of Control has occurred, the Board may, to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code, amend, suspend or terminate the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan from time to time, except that no change may be made which would alter a participant's right to a distribution as previously earned.
     If any of our financial statements are restated as a result of errors, omissions, or fraud, the Committee may direct that we recover all or a portion of any such award or payment made to any, all or any class of participants with respect to any fiscal year of Harris the financial results of which are negatively affected by such restatement.
Impact of Restatement of Financial Statements upon Previous Awards.
     A summary description of the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan is set forth in the Company's Proxy Statement dated September 16, 2005, under the heading "Summary of the Harris Corporation 2005 Annual Incentive Plan," which description is incorporated herein by reference. Such description and the summary description of the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Amendment and Restatement of Harris Corporation 2005 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan and 1997 Directors' Deferred Compensation and Annual Stock Unit Award Plan
.
     On October 28, 2005, the Board adopted an amendment to the Harris Corporation 2005 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan (the "") that provides, among other things, effective January 1, 2006, a non-employee director may, subject to any restrictions imposed by Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act and compliance with the Company's director stock ownership guidelines, reallocate amounts invested in such director's Harris stock equivalents account into other available investment alternatives. Additional technical amendments were made to the 2005 Directors' Plan to reflect guidance related to Section 409A of the Code.
2005 Directors' Plan
     The foregoing summary description of the amendment to the 2005 Directors' Plan is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of the Harris Corporation 2005 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan (as Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2006), which is filed as Exhibit 10.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
     On October 28, 2005, the Board adopted an amendment to the Harris Corporation 1997 Directors' Deferred Compensation and Annual Stock Unit Award Plan (the "") that provides, among other things, effective January 1, 2006, a non-employee director may, subject to any restrictions imposed by Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act and compliance with the Company's director stock ownership guidelines, reallocate amounts invested in such director's Harris stock equivalents account into other available investment alternatives.
1997 Directors' Plan
     The foregoing summary description of the amendment to the 1997 Directors' Plan is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of the Harris Corporation 1997 Directors' Deferred Compensation and Annual Stock Unit Award Plan (Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2006), which is filed as Exhibit 10.4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Harris Corporation Retirement Plan  Amendment and Restatement.
     The Company has previously adopted the Harris Corporation Retirement Plan and numerous amendments to such plan. For convenience of reference, the Harris Corporation Retirement Plan, as previously amended, was amended and restated in its entirety on October 31 , 2005, effective as of October 1, 2005. A copy of the Harris Corporation Retirement Plan, as amended and restated effective October 1, 2005, is filed as Exhibit 10.5 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
     On October 28, 2005, the Board elected James C. Christie as Vice President-Internal Audit and Financial Services. Mr. Christie was previously Vice President-Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. In his new role, Mr. Christie will jointly report to the Audit Committee of the Board and to the Company's Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Christie will continue to be responsible for internal auditing and shared services, but he will no longer serve as the Company's principal accounting officer.
     On October 28, the Board elected Lewis A. Schwartz as the Company's Principal Accounting Officer reporting to the Company's Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Schwartz, 42, a Certified Public Accountant, joined Harris in 1992 and has held a number of positions in the Company's finance organization, including Assistant Controller from October 2003 to October 2005 and Director-Corporate Accounting from August 1999 to October 2005. Prior to joining Harris, Mr. Schwartz was employed by Ernst & Young LLP. Mr. Schwartz serves at the pleasure of the Board. There is no family relationship between Mr. Schwartz and any of the Company's executive officers or directors. Mr. Schwartz does not have a written employment agreement with the Company; however, he is party to a change of control severance agreement which provides severance benefits to officers and key managers in the event such individual's employment is terminated by the Company without cause, or by the individual for good reason, within two years following a change of control. Mr. Schwartz is eligible to participate in
Table of Contents
the Company's annual incentive plans, equity incentive plans, retirement, health and welfare plans on the same terms offered to all plan participants.
Item 5.03 Amendment to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
     On October 28, 2005, the Board adopted amendments to the Company's By-Laws to insert immediately following each reference to "Controller" the words "or Principal Accounting Officer." The foregoing summary of such amendments is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of Harris' By-Laws, as amended and restated effective October 28, 2005, filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated in this Item 5.03 by reference.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     On November 2, 2005, Howard L. Lance, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Harris, adopted a pre-arranged plan to sell shares of Harris. The plan was established as part of Mr. Lance's long-term strategy for asset diversification and financial, estate and tax planning activities. Mr. Lance's plan was established in accordance with the guidelines specified in Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act and the Company's insider trading policy.
     The plan provides for the sale of up to 100,000 shares of Harris stock beginning in December 2005, and ending on December 15, 2006, subject to specified limitations and minimum price thresholds. No more than 12,000 shares may be sold on any trade date. Mr. Lance's ownership interest in Harris is considerably in excess of the Company's stock ownership guidelines. The transactions under the plan will be disclosed publicly through Form 4 and Form 144 filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     Rule 10b5-1 permits individuals to establish pre-arranged stock trading plans when they are not in possession of material non-public information, and allows such pre-arranged trades to be made pursuant to the plan regardless of any subsequent material non-pubic information that an individual may receive.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
__________
*Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 2, 2005
Table of Contents
 

EXHIBIT 3.1 BY-LAWS OF HARRIS CORPORATION AS AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 28, 2005
BY-LAWS OF HARRIS CORPORATION ARTICLE I. OFFICES. The registered office of the Company shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware. The Company may also have offices at such other places as the Board of Directors from time to time may determine or the business of the Company may require. ARTICLE II. MEETINGS OF SHAREHOLDERS. Section 1. Place of Meeting. All meetings of shareholders for the election of directors or for any other purposes whatsoever shall be held at the office of the Company in the City of Wilmington, Delaware, or elsewhere within or without the State of Delaware, as may be decided upon from time to time by the Board of Directors and indicated in the notice of the meeting. Section 2. Annual Meeting. The annual meeting of the shareholders shall be held on such date as the Board of Directors may determine and at the time as shall be decided by the Board of Directors and indicated in the notice of the meeting. Directors shall be elected thereat and such other business transacted as may be specified in the notice of the meeting, or as may be properly brought before the meeting. Section 3. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the shareholders may be held on any business day when called by the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors, or a majority of the full Board of Directors acting without a meeting. Section 4. Notice of Meetings. A written or printed notice of every annual or special meeting of the shareholders stating the time and place and the purposes thereof shall be given to each shareholder entitled to vote thereat and to each shareholder entitled to notice as provided by law, which notice shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the date of the meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to each shareholder at such shareholder's address as it appears on the records of the Company. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to give written notice of the annual meeting, and of each special meeting when requested so to do by the officer or directors calling such meeting. Any shareholder may waive in writing any notice required to be given by law or under these By-Laws and by attendance or voting at any meeting without protesting the lack of proper notice shall be deemed to have waived notice thereof. 1
Section 5. Shareholder List. A complete list of the shareholders entitled to vote at each meeting of shareholders, arranged in alphabetical order, with the address of each and the number of voting shares held by each, shall be prepared by or at the instance of the Secretary and made available at the location where the meeting is to be held, at least ten (10) days before every meeting, and shall at all times during the usual hours for business in said ten (10) day period and during the time of said meeting be open to examination by any shareholder. Section 6. Voting and Proxies. At all meetings of shareholders, only such shareholders shall be entitled to vote, in person or by proxy, who appear upon the records of the Company as the holders of shares at the time possessing voting power, or if a record date be fixed as hereinafter provided, those appearing as such on such record date. Each shareholder entitled to vote at a meeting of shareholders may authorize another person or persons to act for such shareholder by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three (3) years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A shareholder may authorize another person or persons to act for such shareholder as proxy by executing a writing authorizing such person or persons to act for such shareholder as proxy or by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided that any such telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission was authorized by the shareholder. Section 7. Quorum and Adjournments. Except as may otherwise be required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws, the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote at a shareholders' meeting shall constitute a quorum to hold such meeting; provided, however, that any meeting, whether or not a quorum is present or otherwise, may, by vote of the holders of a majority of the voting shares represented thereat, adjourn from time to time and from place to place in the county wherein said meeting was originally called without notice other than by announcement at such meeting. Section 8. Advance Notice of Shareholder Nominees for Director and Other Shareholder Proposals. (a) The matters to be considered and brought before any annual or special meeting of shareholders of the Company shall be limited to only such matters, including the nomination and election of directors, as shall be brought properly before such meeting in compliance with the procedures set forth in this Section 8. (b) For any matter to be properly brought before any annual meeting of shareholders, the matter must be (i) specified in the notice of annual meeting given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (ii) otherwise brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) brought before the annual meeting in the manner specified in this Section 8(b) by a shareholder of record entitled to vote at the annual meeting of 2
shareholders on such matter. In addition to any other requirements under applicable law and the Certificate of Incorporation and these By-Laws, persons nominated by shareholders for election as directors of the Company and any other proposals by shareholders shall be properly brought before the meeting only if notice of any such matter to be presented by a shareholder at such meeting of shareholders (the "Shareholder Notice") shall be delivered to the Secretary of the Company at the principal executive office of the Company not less than ninety (90) nor more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the first anniversary date of the annual meeting for the preceding year; provided, however, if and only if the annual meeting is not scheduled to be held within a period that commences thirty (30) days before such anniversary date and ends thirty (30) days after such anniversary date (an annual meeting date outside such period being referred to herein as an "Other Meeting Date"), such Shareholder Notice shall be given in the manner provided herein by the later of the close of business on (i) the date ninety (90) days prior to such Other Meeting Date or (ii) the tenth day following the date such Other Annual Meeting Date is first publicly announced or disclosed. Any shareholder desiring to nominate any person or persons (as the case may be) for election as a director or directors of the Company shall deliver, as part of such Shareholder Notice, a statement in writing setting forth (i) the name of the person or persons to be nominated; (ii) the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the Company owned of record and beneficially by each such person, as reported to such shareholder by such nominee(s); (iii) the information regarding each such person required by paragraphs (a), (e) and (f) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (or the corresponding provisions of any regulation subsequently adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission applicable to the Company); (iv) each such person's signed consent to serve as a director of the Company if elected; and (v) such shareholder's name and address and the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the Company owned of record and beneficially by such shareholder. Any shareholder who gives a Shareholder Notice of any matter proposed to be brought before the meeting (other than a nomination of directors) shall deliver, as part of such Shareholder Notice, the text of the proposal to be presented and a brief written statement of the reasons why such shareholder favors the proposal and setting forth such shareholder's name and address, the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the Company owned of record and beneficially by such shareholder and, if applicable, any material interest of such shareholder in the matter proposed (other than as a shareholder). As used herein, shares "beneficially owned" shall mean all shares which such person is deemed to beneficially own pursuant to Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). If a shareholder is entitled to vote only for a specific class or category of directors at a meeting (annual or special), such shareholder's right to nominate one or more individuals for election as a director at the meeting shall be limited to such class or category of directors. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 8(b) to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Company at the next annual meeting is increased and either all of the nominees for director at the next annual meeting or the size of the increased Board of Directors is not publicly announced or disclosed by the Company at least one hundred (100) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a Shareholder Notice shall also be considered timely hereunder, but only 3
with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary of the Company at the principal executive office of the Company not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the first date all of such nominees or the size of the increased Board of Directors shall have been publicly announced or disclosed. (c) Except as provided in the immediately following sentence, only such matters shall be properly brought before a special meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Company's notice of such meeting. In the event the Company calls a special meeting of shareholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any shareholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Company's notice of meeting, if the Shareholder Notice required by Section 8(b) hereof shall be delivered to the Secretary of the Company at the principal executive office of the Company not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which the date of the special meeting and either the names of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting or the number of directors to be elected is publicly announced or disclosed. (d) For purposes of this Section 8, a matter shall be deemed to have been "publicly announced or disclosed" if such matter is disclosed in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or a comparable national news or wire service or in a document publicly filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. (e) In no event shall the adjournment of an annual meeting or special meeting or the postponement of any meeting that does not require a change in the record date for such meeting, or any announcement thereof, commence a new period for the giving of notice as provided in this Section 8. This Section 8 shall not (i) affect the rights of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals made pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) apply to the election of directors selected by or pursuant to the provisions of Article FOURTH, Section 3 of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock of the Company having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect directors under specified circumstances. (f) The person presiding at any meeting of shareholders, in addition to making any other determinations that may be appropriate to the conduct of the meeting, shall have the power and duty to determine whether notice of nominees and other matters proposed to be brought before a meeting has been duly given in the manner provided in this Section 8 and, if not so given, shall direct and declare at the meeting that such nominees and other matters are out of order and shall not be considered. Section 9. Conduct of Meetings. The Board of Directors of the Company may adopt by resolution such rules, regulations and procedures for the conduct of meetings of shareholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with applicable law and such rules and regulations adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of each meeting of shareholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations 4
and procedures and to do all such acts, including causing an adjournment of such meeting, as, in the judgment of such Chairman, are appropriate. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the Chairman of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (a) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting, including fixing the time for opening and closing the polls for voting on each matter; (b) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (c) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to shareholders of record of the Company, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the Chairman shall permit; (d) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (e) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. Unless, and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the meeting, meetings of shareholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with rules of parliamentary procedure. Section 10. Organization of Meetings. Meetings of shareholders shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or in his or her absence by the Chief Executive Officer, or in the absence of the foregoing persons by a Chairman designated by the Board of Directors, or, in the absence of any such designation, by a Chairman chosen at the meeting. The Secretary, or in the absence of the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, shall act as the secretary of the meeting, but in the absence of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary, the Chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting. ARTICLE III. BOARD OF DIRECTORS. Section 1. Number. The Board of Directors shall consist of not less than eight nor more than thirteen members as may be determined by the Board of Directors. After any such determination, the number so determined shall continue as the authorized number of members of the Board until the same shall be changed as aforesaid. Directors need not be shareholders. Section 2. Manner of Election. Except as may otherwise be required by the Certificate of Incorporation, at each meeting of the shareholders called for the purpose of electing directors, the persons receiving the greatest number of votes shall be the directors. Such election shall be by ballot. Section 3. Tenure; Vacancies. Each director shall hold office until the annual meeting for the year in which his or her term expires and until his or her successor shall be elected and qualified; subject, however, to prior resignation, death or removal as provided by law. Any director may resign at any time by oral statement to that effect made at a meeting of the Board of Directors, to be effective upon its acceptance by the Board, or in writing to that effect delivered to the Secretary, to be effective upon its acceptance or at the time specified in such writing. Any vacancy on the Board of Directors that results from an increase in the number of directors shall be filled by a majority of the Board of Directors then in office, and any other vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors shall be filled by a 5
majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. Any director elected to fill a vacancy not resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall have the same remaining term as that of his predecessor. Section 4. Organization Meeting. Immediately after each annual meeting of the shareholders or special meeting held in lieu thereof, the newly elected Board of Directors, if a quorum is present, shall hold an organization meeting for the purpose of electing officers and transacting any other business. Notice of such meeting need not be given. If, for any reason, said organization meeting is not held at such time, a special meeting for such purpose shall be held as soon thereafter as practicable. Section 5. Regular Meetings. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors for the transaction of any business may be held at such times and places as may be determined by the Board of Directors. The Secretary shall give to each director at least five (5) days written notice of each such meeting. Section 6. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time and place upon call by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or a majority of the Directors. Notice of each such meeting shall be given to each director by letter, telegram or telephone or in person not less than two (2) days prior to such meeting; provided, however, that such notice shall be deemed to have been waived by the directors attending or voting at any such meeting, without protesting the lack of proper notice, and may be waived in writing or by telegram by any director either before or after such meeting. Unless otherwise indicated in the notice thereof, any business may be transacted at such meeting. Section 7. Quorum. At all meetings of the Board of Directors a majority of the directors in office at the time shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but in no case shall such quorum be less than one-third of the total authorized number of directors. Section 8. Compensation. If so determined by the Board of Directors, all or any members of the Board of Directors or of any committee of the Board who are not Company employees shall be compensated for their services in such capacities either a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board or of such committee or such other amount as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. Compensation may be paid in cash and in the Company's stock and stock equivalents. Directors may be reimbursed for expenses reasonably incurred by them in attending such meetings. ARTICLE IV. COMMITTEES. The Board of Directors may, by resolution or resolutions passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of two or more of the directors of the Company, which to the extent provided in said resolution or resolutions shall have and may exercise the powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the 6
business and affairs of the Company and may have power to authorize the seal of the Company to be affixed to all papers which may require it. Such committee or committees shall have such name or names as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors. ARTICLE V. OFFICERS. Section 1. Officers Designated. The officers of the Company shall be elected by the Board of Directors at their organization meeting or any other meeting. The Board of Directors shall elect the executive officers of the Company which may include a Chairman of the Board, President, and one or more Vice Presidents (any one or more of whom may be designated as Executive Vice Presidents, or as Senior Vice Presidents or by any other designations). In addition thereto, the officers shall include a Controller or Principal Accounting Officer, a General Counsel, a Secretary and a Treasurer. In their discretion the Board of Directors may elect one or more Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers and any other additional officers. The Chairman of the Board shall be elected from among the directors. The other officers may but need not be elected from among the directors. Any two offices may be held by the same person, but in any case where the action of more than one officer is required no one person shall act in more than one capacity. Section 2. Tenure of Office. The officers of the Company shall hold office until the next organization meeting of the Board of Directors and until their respective successors are chosen and qualified, except in case of resignation, death or removal. The Board of Directors may remove any officer at any time with or without cause by the vote of the majority of the directors in office at the time. A vacancy in any office may be filled by election by the Board of Directors. Section 3. Powers and Duties of Officers in General. The powers and duties of the officers shall be exercised in all cases subject to such directions as the Board of Directors may see fit to give. The respective powers and duties hereinafter set forth are subject to alteration by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is also authorized to delegate the duties of any officer to any other officer, employee or committee and to require the performance of duties in addition to those provided for herein. Subject to such directions, if any, as the Board of Directors may give from time to time, the chief executive officers of the Company are authorized to establish and to modify from time to time an organization plan defining the respective duties and functions of the officers of the Company. Section 4. Chairman of the Board. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors. Section 5. Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer shall be either the Chairman of the Board and/or the President, as the Board of Directors so designates, and he or she shall have general responsibility for the major functions of the business of the Company and shall initiate and develop broad Company policies. 7
Section 6. President; Vice Presidents. In the absence or disability of the Chief Executive Officer, the President shall perform the Chief Executive Officer's duties. In the absence or disability of the Chief Executive Officer and the President, the Vice Presidents, in the order designated by the Board of Directors, shall perform the Chief Executive Officer's duties. If so determined by the Board of Directors, one Vice President may be designated as manager of specific sectors, divisions, districts or such other unit or as being in charge of specific functions, another as Vice President in Charge of Sales, and other Vice Presidents as managers of specified divisions or sales districts of the Company or as being in charge of specified functions. Section 7. Controller or Principal Accounting Officer, General Counsel, Secretary, and Treasurer. The Controller or Principal Accounting Officer, General Counsel, the Secretary, and the Treasurer shall perform such duties as are indicated by their respective titles, subject to the provisions of Section 3 of this Article. The Secretary shall have the custody of the corporate seal. Section 8. Other Officers. All other officers shall have such powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, or, in the absence of their action, by the chief executive officers of the Company or by the respective officers having supervision over them. Section 9. Compensation. The Board of Directors is authorized to determine, or to provide the method of determining, or to empower a committee of its members to determine, the compensation of all officers. Section 10. Bond. If so requested and authorized by the Board of Directors, the Company shall furnish a fidelity bond in such sum and with such security as the Board of Directors may require. Section 11. Signing Checks and Other Instruments. The Board of Directors is authorized to determine or provide the method of determining the manner in which deeds, contracts and other obligations and instruments of the Company shall be signed. However, persons doing business with the Company shall be entitled to rely upon the action of the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Secretary, the Treasurer, the Controller or Principal Accounting Officer or General Counsel in executing contracts and other obligations and instruments, of the Company as having been duly authorized. The Board of Directors of the Company is authorized to designate or provide the method of designating depositaries of the funds of the Company and to determine or provide the method of determining the manner in which checks, notes, bills of exchange and similar instruments shall be signed, countersigned or endorsed. 8
ARTICLE VI. INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS. The Company shall indemnify to the full extent permitted by law any person made or threatened to be made a party to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the Company, is or was a director, officer, trustee, member, stockholder, partner, incorporator or liquidator of a Subsidiary of the Company, or serves or served at the request of the Company as a director, officer, trustee, member, stockholder, partner, incorporator or liquidator of or in any other capacity for any other enterprise. Expenses, including attorneys' fees, incurred by any such person in defending any such action, suit or proceeding shall be paid or reimbursed by the Company promptly upon demand by such person and, if any such demand is made in advance of the final disposition of any such action, suit or proceeding, promptly upon receipt by the Company of an undertaking of such person to repay such expenses if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company. The rights provided to any person by this by-law shall be enforceable against the Company by such person, who shall be presumed to have relied upon it in serving or continuing to serve as a director or officer or in such other capacity as provided above. In addition, the rights provided to any person by this by-law shall survive the termination of such person as any such director, officer, trustee, member, stockholder, partner, incorporator or liquidator and, insofar as such person served at the request of the Company as a director, officer, trustee, member, stockholder, partner, incorporator or liquidator of or in any other capacity for any other enterprise, shall survive the termination of such request as to service prior to termination of such request. No amendment of this by-law shall impair the rights of any person arising at any time with respect to events occurring prior to such amendment. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article VI, except for proceedings to enforce rights provided in this Article VI, the Company shall not be obligated under this Article VI to provide any indemnification or any payment or reimbursement of expenses to any director, officer or other person in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person (which shall not include counterclaims or crossclaims initiated by others) unless the Board of Directors has authorized or consented to such proceeding (or part thereof) in a resolution adopted by the Board. For purposes of this by-law, the term "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other entity in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, a majority of the economic or voting ownership interest; the term "other enterprise" shall include any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, association or other unincorporated organization or other entity and any employee benefit plan; the term "officer," when used with respect to the Company, shall refer to any officer elected by or appointed pursuant to authority granted by the Board of Directors of the Company pursuant to Article V of these By-Laws, when used with respect to a Subsidiary or other enterprise that is a corporation, shall refer to any person elected or appointed pursuant to the by-laws of such Subsidiary or other enterprise or chosen in such manner as is prescribed by the by-laws of such Subsidiary or other enterprise or determined 9
by the Board of Directors of such Subsidiary or other enterprise, and when used with respect to a Subsidiary or other enterprise that is not a corporation or is organized in a foreign jurisdiction, the term "officer" shall include in addition to any officer of such entity, any person serving in a similar capacity or as the manager of such entity; service "at the request of the Company" shall include service as a director or officer of the Company which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director or officer with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries shall be deemed to be indemnifiable expenses; and action by a person with respect to an employee benefit plan which such person reasonably believes to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of such plan shall be deemed to be action not opposed to the best interests of the Company. To the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, the Company may provide to (i) any one or more employees and other agents of the Company, (ii) any one or more officers, employees and other agents of any Subsidiary and (iii) any one or more directors, officers, employees and other agents of any other enterprise, rights of indemnification and to receive payment or reimbursement of expenses, including attorneys' fees, that are similar to the rights conferred in this Article VI on directors and officers of the Company or any Subsidiary or other enterprise. Any such rights shall have the same force and effect as they would have if they were conferred in this Article VI. Nothing in this Article VI shall limit the power of the Company or the Board of Directors to provide rights of indemnification and to make payment and reimbursement of expenses, including attorneys' fees, to directors, officers, employees, agents and other persons otherwise than pursuant to this Article VI. ARTICLE VII. CORPORATE SEAL. The corporate seal, circular in form, shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Company and the words "Corporate Seal--Delaware." ARTICLE VIII. RECORD DATES. The Board of Directors may close the stock transfer books of the Company for a period not exceeding sixty (60) days preceding the date of any meeting of the shareholders, or the date for the payment of any dividend, or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of shares shall go into effect; provided, however, that in lieu of closing the stock transfer books as aforesaid, the Board of Directors may fix in advance a date, not exceeding sixty (60) days preceding the date of any meeting of shareholders, or the date for the payment of any dividend, or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of shares shall go into effect, as a record date for the determination of the shareholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, any such meeting and any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any such 10
dividend, or to any such allotment of rights, or to exercise the rights in respect of any such change, conversion or exchange of shares, and in such case such shareholders, and only such shareholders as shall be shareholders of record on the date so fixed, shall be entitled to such notice of, and to vote at, such meeting and any adjournment thereof, or to receive payment of such dividend or to receive such allotment of rights or to exercise such rights as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the Company after any such record date fixed as aforesaid. ARTICLE IX. STOCK. Section 1. Certificates; Uncertificated Shares. The shares of stock of the Company shall be represented by certificates in such form as the appropriate officers of the Company may from time to time prescribe; provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of stock of the Company shall be uncertificated shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing or the adoption of such a resolution or resolutions by the Board of Directors, each holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled, upon request, to a certificate representing such shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to any share represented by a certificate theretofore issued until such certificate is surrendered to the Company. Share certificates shall be numbered and registered in a share register as they are issued. Share certificates shall exhibit the name of the registered holder and the number and class of shares and the series, if any, represented thereby and the par value of each such share or a statement that each such share is without par value, as the case may be. Except as otherwise provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares and the rights and obligations of the holders of shares represented by certificates of the same class and series shall be identical. Section 2. Signatures on Certificates. Every share certificate shall be signed, in the name of the Company, by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President and countersigned, in the name of the Company, by the Corporate Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer and shall be sealed with the Company's corporate seal. Such signatures and seal may be facsimile, engraved or printed. The Board of Directors may appoint one or more transfer agents or transfer clerks and one or more registrars and may require any or all certificates representing shares of stock to bear the signature or signatures of any of them. Where a certificate is signed (a) by a transfer agent or an assistant or co-transfer agent, (b) by a transfer clerk or (c) by a registrar or co-registrar, the signature thereon of any authorized signatory may be facsimile. Where a certificate is signed by a registrar or co-registrar, the signature of any transfer agent or assistant or co-transfer agent thereon may be by facsimile signature of the authorized signatory of such transfer agent or assistant or co-transfer agent. In case any officer or officers of the Company who have signed, or whose facsimile, engraved or printed signature or signatures have been used on, any such certificate or certificates shall cease to be such officer or officers, whether because of death, resignation or otherwise, before such certificate or certificates have been delivered by the Company, such certificate or certificates may, nevertheless, be issued and delivered as though the person or persons who signed such 11
certificate or certificates or whose facsimile, engraved or printed signature or signatures have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer or officers of the Company. Section 3. Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates; Issuance of New Certificates. In case of loss, theft or destruction of any certificate representing shares of stock or other securities of the Company, another may be issued, or uncertificated shares may be issued, in its place upon satisfactory proof of such loss, theft or destruction and upon the giving of a satisfactory bond of indemnity to the Company and to the transfer agents, transfer clerks and registrars, if any, of such stock or other securities, as the case may be. Section 4. Transfer of Shares. Subject to valid transfer restrictions and stop-transfer orders, upon surrender to the Company, or a transfer agent, transfer clerk or registrar of the Company, of a certificate representing shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, the Company may issue a new certificate or new equivalent uncertificated shares, as the case may be, or in the case of uncertificated shares, upon request, a certificate representing, or other evidence of, such new equivalent uncertificated shares, to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books. Upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the holder of uncertificated shares, the Company shall cancel such uncertificated shares and issue new equivalent uncertificated shares, or, upon such holder's request, a certificate representing, or other evidence of, such new equivalent uncertificated shares, to the person entitled thereto, and record the transaction upon its books. In no event shall a transfer of shares affect the right of the Company to pay any dividend upon the stock to the holder of record thereof for all purposes, and no transfer shall be valid, except between the parties thereto, until such transfer shall have been made upon the books of the Company. Section 5. Registered Shareholders. The Company and its transfer agents, transfer clerks and registrars, if any, shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares as the holder in fact thereof and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claims to, or interest in, such shares on the part of any other person and shall not be liable for any registration or transfer of shares which are registered, or to be registered, in the name of a fiduciary or the nominee of a fiduciary unless made with actual knowledge that a fiduciary, or nominee of a fiduciary, is committing a breach of trust in requesting such registration or transfer, or with knowledge of such facts that its participation therein amounts to bad faith. ARTICLE X. FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the Company shall end on the Friday nearest June 30 unless and until the Board of Directors shall otherwise determine. 12
ARTICLE XI. AMENDMENTS. These By-Laws may be made or altered in any respect in whole or in part by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote thereon at any annual or special meeting of the shareholders, if notice of the proposed alteration or change to be made is properly brought before the meeting under these By-Laws. The By-Laws may also be made or altered in any respect in whole or in part, by the affirmative vote of the majority of the directors then comprising the Board of Directors. 13

 
Exhibit 10.1
      1.  The purpose of the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan is to promote the long-term growth and performance of the Company and to increase shareholder value by providing long-term incentive awards to employees and directors. The Plan is intended to: (i) further align the interests of employees and directors with those of the shareholders by providing incentive compensation opportunities which may be tied to the performance of the Common Stock and by encouraging Common Stock ownership by officers, employees, and directors; and (ii) assist in the attraction, retention and motivation of selected individuals.
Purpose of the Plan.
      2.  Wherever the following capitalized terms are used in the Plan, they shall have the meanings specified below:
Definitions.
 
 
 
      3. 
Shares Subject to Plan.
 
 
      4. 
Administration of Plan; Eligibility.
 
      5. 
Performance Share Awards, Performance Unit Awards and Cash-Based Unit Awards.
 
      6. 
Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Unit Awards.
 
      7. 
Stock Options.
 
      8. 
Stock Appreciation Rights.
 
      9.  Subject to the limits set forth in , but notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan, awards of Shares and other awards that are valued in whole or in part by reference to, or are otherwise based on, Shares (including, but not limited to, bonus stock, Shares which are subject to restrictions on transferability, or similar securities or rights) ), may be made, from time to time, to such Employees and Non-Employee Directors as may be selected by the Board Committee. Such Share-Based Awards may be made alone or in addition to or in connection with any other Award hereunder. The Board Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine the terms and conditions of any such Share-Based Award. Each such Share-Based Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement which shall specify the number of Shares subject to the Share-Based Award, any consideration therefor, any vesting or performance requirements and such other terms and conditions as the Board Committee shall determine. Share-Based Awards in the form of restricted shares or units are not required to be subject to any minimum vesting period.
Other Share-Based Awards.
Section 3.1
("Share-Based Awards"
      10. 
Non-Employee Director Deferred Units.
 
      11. 
Change of Control.
 
 
      12. 
Amendment or Termination of Plan.
      13. 
Miscellaneous.
 
 
 
 
      Approved and adopted by the Board of Directors the 27th day of August 2005.

 
Exhibit 10.2
      1.  The purpose of the Harris Corporation 2005 Annual Incentive Plan is to promote the growth and performance of the Company by: (i) linking a portion of the total annual compensation for certain key employees to attainment of such corporate, subsidiary, division and business unit objectives as shall be approved for each Plan Year; and (ii) assisting in the attraction, retention and motivation of certain key employees.
Purpose of the Plan.
      2.  Wherever the following capitalized terms are used in the Plan, they shall have the meanings specified below:
Definitions.
 
      3. 
Administration of Plan.
 
      4.  All Employees are eligible to be designated by the Committee to receive Awards and become Participants under the Plan. Participants in the Plan shall be selected by the Committee on an annual basis. In selecting Employees to be Participants and in determining the amount of an Award to be granted under the Plan and the terms and conditions of the Award, the Committee shall consider any and all factors that it deems relevant or appropriate. Awards need not be uniform and may be made selectively among Participants and Employees who receive or are eligible to receive awards.
Eligibility; Designation of Participants.
      5. 
Annual Incentive Awards.
 
      6. 
Participation by Executive Officers.
      7. 
Payment of Annual Incentive Award on Termination of Employment.
      8.  A Participant's interest in any Awards hereunder shall at all times be reflected on the Company's books as a general unsecured and unfunded obligation of the Company subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan. The Plan shall not give any person any right or security interest in any asset of the Company or any fund in which any deferred payment is deemed invested. Neither the Company, the Board, nor the Committee shall be responsible for the adequacy of the general assets of the Company to
Unfunded Plan.
 
discharge the payment of its obligations hereunder nor shall the Company be required to reserve or set aside funds therefor.
      9.  All rights and benefits under the Plan are personal to the Participant and neither the Plan nor any right or interest of a Participant or any other person arising under the Plan is subject to voluntary or involuntary alienation, sale, transfer, or assignment without the Company's consent. Subject to the foregoing, the Company shall establish such procedures as it deems necessary for a Participant to designate one or more beneficiaries to whom any payment the Committee determines to make would be payable in the event of the Participant's death. In the event no beneficiary has been properly designated, the payment shall be made to the Participant's surviving spouse or, if none, the Participant's estate.
Non-Alienation of Benefits; Beneficiary Designation.
      10.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Plan, the Company shall have the authority to withhold from any payment made by it under the Plan such amount or amounts as may be required for purposes of complying with any Federal, state and local tax or withholding requirements.
Withholding for Taxes.
      11.  Nothing in the Plan or in the grant of any Award shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates to terminate a Participant's employment at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continued employment with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates. Neither the adoption of the Plan nor any action by the Committee shall be deemed to give any Employee any right to be designated as a Participant under the Plan.
No Right to Continued Employment or to Participate.
      12.  This Plan is not intended to and shall not preclude the Board from adopting, continuing, amending or terminating such additional compensation arrangement as it deems desirable for Employees.
Non-Exclusivity of Plan.
      13. 
Change of Control.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a "Change of Control" of the Company shall not be deemed to occur solely because any person acquires beneficial ownership of more than 20% of the Company Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding; , if after such acquisition by the Company such person becomes the beneficial owner of additional Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities beneficially owned by such person, a "Change of Control" of the Company shall then occur.
provided
that
      14.  The Committee shall be authorized to make adjustments in the method of calculating attainment of Performance Objectives in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements or changes in applicable laws, regulations or accounting principles; , , that any such adjustments shall be made in a manner consistent with Section 162(m) of the Code. The Committee may not make any such adjustment to any Qualified Performance-Based Award if such adjustment would cause compensation pursuant to such award to cease to be performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code. In the event the Company shall assume outstanding employee benefit awards or the right or obligation to make future such awards in connection with the acquisition of another corporation or business entity, the Committee may, in its discretion, make such adjustments in the terms of Awards under the Plan as it shall deem appropriate.
Adjustment of Awards.
provided
however
      15.  If any of the Company's financial statements are restated as a result of errors, omissions, or fraud, the Committee may (in its sole discretion, but acting in good faith) direct that the Company recover all or a portion of any such Award or
Impact of Restatement of Financial Statements upon Previous Awards.
 
payment made to any, all or any class of Participants with respect to any Plan Year the financial results of which are negatively affected by such restatement. The amount to be recovered from any Participant shall be the amount by which the affected Award or payment exceeded the amount that would have been payable to such Participant had the financial statements been initially filed as restated, or any greater or lesser amount (including, but not limited to, the entire Award) that the Committee shall determine. The Committee may determine to recover different amounts from different Participants or different classes of Participants on such basis as it shall deem appropriate. In no event shall the amount to be recovered by the Company from a Participant be less than the amount required to be repaid or recovered as a matter of law. The Committee shall determine whether the Company shall effect any such recovery (i) by seeking repayment from the Participant, (ii) by reducing (subject to applicable law and the terms and conditions of the applicable plan, program or arrangement) the amount that would otherwise be payable to the Participant under any compensatory plan, program or arrangement maintained by the Company, a Subsidiary or any of its Affiliates, (iii) by withholding payment of future increases in compensation (including the payment of any discretionary bonus amount) or grants of compensatory awards that would otherwise have been made in accordance with the Company's otherwise applicable compensation practices, or (iv) by any combination of the foregoing or otherwise.
      16. 
Deferral.
      17.  Until such time as a "Change of Control" shall have occurred, the Board or the Committee may, in its sole discretion, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan from time to time, subject to any requirement for shareholder approval imposed by applicable law, including Section 162(m) of the Code, and the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. Except as provided in and , no such termination or amendment shall alter a Participant's right to receive a distribution as previously earned, as to which this Plan shall remain in effect following its termination until all such amounts have been paid, except as the Company may otherwise determine.
Amendment or Termination.
Section 5(d)
Section 14
      18.  To the extent applicable, this Agreement is intended to be administered and interpreted in a manner that is consistent with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no particular tax result with respect to any income recognized by a Participant in connection with the Plan is guaranteed and each Participant shall be responsible for any taxes imposed on him in connection with the Plan.
Application of Code Section 409A.
      19.  The provisions of this Plan are not intended, and should not be construed, to be legal, business or tax advice. The Company and any other party having any interest herein are hereby informed that the U.S. federal tax advice contained in this document (if any) is not intended
Tax Penalty Avoidance.
 
or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of (i) avoiding penalties under the Code or (ii) promoting, marketing or recommending to any party any transaction or matter addressed herein.
      20.  The validity, construction, and effect of the Plan and any rules and regulations relating to the Plan shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the conflict of law principles thereof. Unless otherwise indicated, all "Section" references are to sections of the Plan. References to any law, rule or regulation shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing, supplementing, or interpreting such law, rule or regulation.
Governing Law and Interpretation.
      21.  Notwithstanding any other provision or Section of the Plan, if any provision of the Plan is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction or as to any person or award, or would disqualify the Plan or any award under any law deemed applicable by the Board or the Committee, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to conform to the applicable laws (but only to such extent necessary to comply with such laws), or if it cannot be construed or deemed amended without, in the determination of the Board or the Committee, materially altering the intent of the Plan or award, such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction, person or award and the remainder of the Plan and any such award shall remain in full force and effect.
Severability.
      22.  Subject to its approval by the shareholders, this Plan shall become effective for the 2006 fiscal year and shall remain effective until the first annual meeting of shareholders in the 2011 fiscal year, subject to any further shareholder approvals (or reapprovals) mandated for performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, and subject to the right of the Board to terminate the Plan, on a prospective basis only, at any time.
Effective Date.
      Approved and adopted by the Board of Directors this 27th day of August, 2005.

Exhibit 10.3 HARRIS CORPORATION 2005 DIRECTORS' DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN (AS AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2006) 1. Purpose. The purposes of this Harris Corporation 2005 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan (as may be amended from time to time, this "Plan") are (a) to establish a method of deferring Directors' compensation which will aid Harris Corporation in attracting and retaining as members of its Board persons whose abilities, experience and judgment can contribute to the continued progress of the Corporation, (b) to align further the interests of Directors with the interests of the stockholders of the Corporation by crediting for the account of Directors who are not employees of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries a portion of their Director compensation in a Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount, and (c) to provide for the elective deferral of payment of all or a portion of any Director Compensation otherwise payable in cash to such Directors. This Plan was originally effective January 1, 2005. The Plan is hereby amended and restated, effective January 1, 2006. 2. Definitions. For the purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise: "Account" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 4(a) of this Plan. "Award Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 3(a) of this Plan. "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Corporation. "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following: (i) any "person" (as such term is defined in Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and as used in Sections 13(d)(3) and l4(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) is or becomes a "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Corporation representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Corporation's then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (the "Corporation Voting Securities"); provided, however, that the event described in this paragraph (i) shall not be deemed to be a Change of Control by virtue of any of the following acquisitions: (a) by the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, (b) by any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, (c) by any underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (d) pursuant to a Non-Control Transaction (as defined in paragraph (iii)); (ii) individuals who, on July 1, 2005, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to July 1, 2005, whose election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Directors
who remain on the Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Corporation in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without objection to such nomination) shall also be deemed to be an Incumbent Director; provided, however, that no individual initially elected or nominated as a director of the Corporation as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to directors or any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person other than the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director; (iii) the consummation of a merger, consolidation, share exchange or similar form of corporate reorganization of the Corporation or any such type of transaction involving the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries that requires the approval of the Corporation's stockholders (whether for such transaction or the issuance of securities in the transaction or otherwise), or the consummation of the direct or indirect sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets, of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries (a "Business Combination"), unless immediately following such Business Combination: (a) more than 80% of the total voting power of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, any corporation which directly or indirectly has beneficial ownership of 100% of the Corporation Voting Securities) eligible to elect directors of such corporation is represented by shares that were Corporation Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination (either by remaining outstanding or being converted), and such voting power is in substantially the same proportion as the voting power of such Corporation Voting Securities immediately prior to the Business Combination, (b) no person (other than any publicly traded holding company resulting from such Business Combination, any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Corporation (or the corporation resulting from such Business Combination)), becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities eligible to elect directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination, and (c) at least a majority of the members of the board of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were Incumbent Directors at the time of the Board's approval of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such Business Combination (any Business Combination which satisfies the conditions specified in (a), (b) and (c) shall be deemed to be a "Non-Control Transaction") or (iv) the stockholders of the Corporation approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation or the direct or indirect sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change of Control of the Corporation shall not be deemed to occur solely because any person acquires beneficial ownership of more than 20% of the Corporation Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Corporation Voting Securities by the Corporation which reduces the number of Corporation Voting Securities outstanding; provided, that, if after such acquisition by the Corporation such person becomes the beneficial owner of additional Corporation Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Corporation Voting Securities beneficially owned by such person, a Change of Control of the Corporation shall then occur. "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 2
"Common Stock" shall mean the common stock of Harris Corporation, par value $1.00 per share, or such other class of shares or securities as to which this Plan may be applicable pursuant to Paragraph 4(b)(v) of this Plan. "Corporate Secretary" shall mean the Corporate Secretary of the Corporation. "Corporation" shall mean Harris Corporation, its successors, and any organization into which or with Harris Corporation may merge or consolidate or to which all or substantially all of its assets may be transferred. "Director" shall mean a member of the Board. "Director Compensation" shall mean all amounts payable for services (excluding expense reimbursement) as a Director including as applicable: (i) the annual retainer fee payable to a Director as compensation for services in that capacity, (ii) the fees payable for service on any committee of the Board, (iii) the fees payable for serving as a chairperson of any committee; and (iv) the fees payable for attendance at Board and committee meetings or other events at the request or on behalf of the Corporation. "Elective Deferred Stock Units" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 4(b)(ii) of this Plan. "Exchange Act" shall have the meaning set forth in the definition of "Change of Control". "Fair Market Value" shall mean the closing price of the Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange consolidated transactions reporting system on the applicable date or, if no such closing price is available on such date, on the preceding date on which such closing price is available, or if the Common Stock is not traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the closing price of the Common Stock as quoted on the NASDAQ or the national stock exchange on which the Common Stock is traded, as reported by such source as the Board shall determine. "Harris Stock Equivalent" shall mean a unit of value equal to one share of Common Stock. "Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 4(a) of this Plan. "Investment Funds" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 4(a) of this Plan. "Non-Elective Deferred Units" shall have the meaning specified in Paragraph 3(a) of this Plan. "Non-Employee Director" shall mean a Director who is not an employee of the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries. 3
"Plan" shall mean this 2005 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan, as it may be amended from time to time. "Retirement Investment Subaccounts" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 4(a) of this Plan. "Retirement Plan" shall mean the Harris Corporation Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time. "Section 16(b)" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 3(c) of this Plan. "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation, association, partnership, joint venture, or other business entity of which 50% or more of the voting stock or other equity interests (in the case of entities other than corporations), is owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation or by one or more Subsidiaries of the Corporation, or by a combination thereof. "Units" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 4(b)(ii) of this Plan. 3. Deferred Compensation. (a) Non-Elective Deferral of Harris Stock Equivalents. On January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1 (each such day an "Award Date") of each year, commencing April 1, 2005, the Corporation shall credit the Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount of each Non-Employee Director, with a number of Harris Stock Equivalents having a Fair Market Value equal to $24,000. All such Harris Stock Equivalents credited under this Paragraph 3(a) shall be referred to herein as "Non-Elective Deferred Units." The Fair Market Value of Harris Stock Equivalents to be credited on an Award Date may be changed from time to time by resolution duly adopted by the Board. For any person who served as a Non-Employee Director for a portion of a calendar quarter, a pro rata portion of the quarterly amount that would have been credited to such Non-Employee Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount had he or she served as a Non-Employee Director for the full calendar quarter shall be credited to such Non-Employee Director's Harris Stock Equivalent Subaccount based on the number of days in the calendar quarter that such person served as a Non-Employee Director. (b) Elective Deferral of Compensation. (i) Any Non-Employee Director may at any time prior to the commencement of a calendar year elect to defer under this Plan all or a portion of any component (for example annual retainer, committee retainers, chairperson retainers, Board or committee meeting fees, etc.) of the Director Compensation (other than such compensation which is deferred pursuant to Paragraph 3(a)) to which the Non-Employee Director may be entitled with respect to such calendar year by filing a written election with the Corporate Secretary. Any Non-Employee Director who is elected as a Director and who was not a Non-Employee Director on the last day of the calendar year immediately prior to his or her election may, within thirty days of the commencement of his or her term, elect to defer all or a portion of any component of Director Compensation to which such Non-Employee Director may thereafter be entitled with respect to the year in which such initial term commenced. (ii) Each of the foregoing elective deferral elections under this Paragraph 3(b) shall be made by written notice executed by the Non-Employee Director and 4
delivered to the Corporate Secretary, specifying the year or years with respect to which the election shall apply and the amount or component of Director Compensation (other than such compensation which is deferred pursuant to Paragraph 3(a)) to be deferred for such year or years. An elective deferral under this Plan with respect to any calendar year shall be irrevocable after commencement of such calendar year or, in the case of a person who was not a Non-Employee Director on the last day of the calendar year immediately prior to such person's election, thirty days after the commencement of his or her initial term. Each election shall continue in effect for succeeding calendar years unless the Non-Employee Director terminates such election by written notice filed with the Corporate Secretary. Any such termination shall become effective as of the first day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which such notice is given and only with respect to Director Compensation earned for service as a Non-Employee Director in such following calendar year and thereafter. (c) Payment Forms. Deferral elections made pursuant to Paragraph 3(b) must also specify whether the payment of the amount reflected in the Director's Account shall be made either in (i) a cash lump sum on a date certain within five years of the Director's resignation or retirement; or (ii) annual substantially equal installments over a designated number of years beginning on a date certain within five years of the Director's retirement or resignation, provided that the Account is fully paid within ten years of the Director's resignation or retirement and provided, further, that payments must commence no later than the date on which the Director reaches the Corporation's mandatory retirement age as established from time to time. A Director's payout election shall apply to all amounts credited to a Director's Account and all earnings thereon regardless of the year in which the amounts were deferred or credited. Annual payments shall be made on or before January 15. Until a Director's Account has been completely distributed, earnings and losses on the unpaid balance thereof shall be allocated as provided in Paragraph 4 below. Non-Elective Deferred Units shall be paid in the same form as the form of payments a Director elected with respect to amounts of Director Compensation that the Director elected to defer pursuant to Paragraph 3(b). If a Director did not make a deferral election pursuant to Paragraph 3(b), the Director shall make an election to receive payment of his or her Non-Elective Deferred Units in either of the forms and time permitted in the first sentence hereof prior to the calendar year on which time such Non-Elective Deferred Units are credited to the Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount or in the case of a Non-Employee Director who is elected as a Director and who was not a Non-Employee Director on the last day of the calendar year immediately prior to his or her election, within thirty days of the commencement of his or her initial term, provided that such election may apply only to Non-Elective Deferred Units earned by such Non-Employee Director after the date of such election. If no timely election is made, amounts credited to a Director's Account shall be paid in a cash lump sum on January 15th or, to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A, as soon as practicable thereafter, following the year in which the Director resigns or retires. All amounts in a Director's Account, including amounts allocated to the Harris Stock Equivalents Account, shall be paid in cash. Notwithstanding any provision of this Paragraph 3(c) to the contrary: (A) if advisable to avoid exposing a Director to a claim for recovery of short swing profits under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act ("Section 16(b)"), prior to the payment of the amount reflected in the Director's Account, such payment must be approved in advance by the Board or a Committee comprised solely of "non-employee directors" as defined in Rule 16(b)-3(b)(3) under the Exchange Act, as amended, and (B) no payments shall be made prior to separation from service 5
or, in the case of a specified employee, prior to the date which is six months after the date of separation from service. "Separation from service" and "specified employee" shall have the meanings provided to such terms under Section 409A of the Code. 4. Accounts. (a) General. On each Award Date, any Director Compensation (other than Non-Elective Deferred Units) earned subsequent to the prior Award Date that is deferred under the terms of this Plan shall be credited to an account ("Account") which shall be established and maintained for such Director as a special ledger account on the Corporation's books. A Director's Account shall consist of a Harris Stock Equivalents subaccount ("Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount") and a number of other subaccounts (sometimes referred to herein as "Retirement Investment Subaccounts") equal to the number of investment funds available from time to time under the Retirement Plan (as set forth on Exhibit A hereto, as such exhibit may be amended from time to time). Amounts of Director Compensation credited to the Retirement Investment Subaccounts of a Director shall be invested in accordance with the investment election of such Director among the investment funds of the Retirement Plan, (other than the Harris Stock Fund,) as identified on Exhibit A hereto, and Harris Stock Equivalents. The investment funds set forth on Exhibit A, as amended from time to time, and Harris Stock Equivalents are sometimes referred to as the "Investment Funds." Subject to the provisions of Paragraph 4(b) below for investments credited to the Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount, a Non-Employee Director may invest his or her future Director Compensation (other than Non-Elective Deferred Units), Retirement Investment Subaccount or Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount in 1.0% increments (or in such other increments as are permitted under the Retirement Plan) in any of the Investment Funds and may change his or her investment elections in a manner consistent with the changing of investment elections as set forth in the Retirement Plan. Amounts deferred by a Non-Employee Director shall be invested in the Balanced Fund selected pursuant to the Retirement Plan (which is currently the fund described on Exhibit A) until the Director makes a valid investment election pursuant to this Paragraph 4(a). Earnings and losses with respect to a Director's Account shall be allocated to such Account with the same frequency and in the same manner as allocations under the Retirement Plan. Exhibit A hereto shall, without further action of the Board, be deemed to be automatically amended to reflect changes, modifications or amendments to investment funds offered under the Retirement Plan. (b) Special Rules Concerning Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccounts. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Plan to the contrary, the following rules shall apply to investments credited to the Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccounts (including, as appropriate, Non-Elective Deferred Units credited to the Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount of a Director's Account pursuant to Paragraph 3(a)). (i) Restrictions On Intra-Plan Transfers into and out of the Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccounts. A Director may not make an election to transfer or reallocate amounts invested in any of the Director's Retirement Investment Subaccounts into the Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount. Subject to any restrictions imposed by Section 16(b), amounts invested in the Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount, including Non-Elective Deferred Units, may thereafter be reallocated to any other Retirement Investment Subaccount by the Director only if any such reallocation does not cause the Director to fail to satisfy the Corporation's minimum stock ownership guidelines applicable to such Director. 6
(ii) Value of Harris Stock Equivalents. Amounts of Director's Compensation deferred by a Director hereunder which the Director elects to be invested in Harris Stock Equivalents shall, unless such amount is payable on an Award Date, be credited to the Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount on the first day of the month following each calendar month in which such amount would be payable. The Corporation shall credit a Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount with that number of Units (including fractions) obtained by dividing such amounts by the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date such amounts are credited to the Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount (such Harris Stock Equivalents are sometimes referred to herein as "Elective Deferred Stock Units"). In the case of Non-Elective Deferred Units, each Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount shall be credited with a number of Non-Elective Deferred Units on each Award Date as set forth in Paragraph 3(a). Elective Deferred Stock Units and Non-Elective Deferred Units are sometimes referred to collectively as "Units." (iii) Earnings on Harris Stock Equivalents. A Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount shall be credited with the amount of cash dividends payable with respect to that number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Units (including fractions) credited to such subaccount on the date on which dividend payments are credited under the Retirement Plan (which may be the ex-dividend date). The amount of cash dividends so credited shall then be converted into Units in the manner described above using the Fair Market Value on the same day, and in a manner consistent with the Retirement Plan. (iv) Reallocations of Future Investments into Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount. Subject to any restrictions imposed by Section 16(b), changes in investment elections with respect to future crediting of Director's Compensation into the Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount may be made at the Director's discretion, except that a Director shall have no investment discretion with respect to the future crediting of Non-Elective Deferred Units. (v) Adjustments to Avoid Dilution, Etc. In the event of any stock dividend or split, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, extraordinary dividends, combination or exchange of shares or other similar event, the value and attributes of each Unit shall be appropriately adjusted so that the proportionate interest of the Directors shall be maintained as before the occurrence of such event. The adjustment to each Unit shall be made to the same extent as if such Units were issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock. Such adjustments shall be made by the Board and shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes of the Plan. (vi) Cash Distributions. Distributions from a Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount shall be made in cash with the amount of cash to be paid on account of each Unit being determined by reference to the Fair Market Value on the last day of the month preceding the date of distribution. (vii) No Rights as Shareholder. A Director shall not have any rights as a stockholder of the Corporation with respect to any Units credited to the Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount. 7
5. Subsequent Elections. A Director may modify his or her election at any time at least twelve (12) months before the date of the previously elected payment date and the newly elected payment date (or payment commencement date) must be at least five years after the previously elected payment date or the previously elected payment commencement date; provided, however, that (a) such modification shall not be effective unless the Director remains a Director for at least twelve (12) months after the date on which such modification was made, (b) no such modification shall be made without the prior approval of the Board or a committee comprised solely of "non-employee directors" as defined in Rule 16b-3(b)(3) under the Exchange Act, as amended from time to time if such approval is advisable to avoid exposing a Director to a claim for recovery of short swing profits under Section 16(b), (c) any change in payment form (as provided in Paragraph 3(c)) shall not accelerate the schedule of payments, and (d) payments must commence no later than the date on which the Director reaches the Corporation's mandatory retirement age as established from time to time. 6. Payments in Connection with Change of Control. (a) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Plan to the contrary but subject to Paragraph 6(b), within 90 days following a Change of Control, the Corporation shall pay to each Director (or former Director), in a cash lump sum, the then remaining balance of the Director's Account. This Paragraph may not be amended, altered or modified following a Change of Control. (b) To the extent a Director is entitled to a lump sum payment following a Change of Control under Paragraph 6(a) and such Change of Control does not constitute a "change in the ownership or effective control" or "a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of the Corporation within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(v) of the Code, then notwithstanding Paragraph 6(a), payment will be made, to the extent necessary to comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code, to the Director on the earliest of (i) the Director's "separation from service" with the Corporation (determined in accordance with Section 409A); provided, however, that if the Director is a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A), the payment date shall be the date that is six months after the date of the Director's separation from service with the Corporation, (ii) the date payment otherwise would have been made in the absence of Paragraph 6(a) (provided such date is a permissible distribution date under Section 409A), or (iii) the Director's death. 7. Payment in the Event of Death. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Plan, in the event a Director or former Director dies prior to receiving payment of the entire amount of her or his Account, the unpaid balance shall be paid to such beneficiary as the Director may have designated in a written notice delivered to the Corporate Secretary as the person, firm or trust to receive any such post-death distribution under this Plan or, in the absence of such written designation, to the former Director's legal representative or any person, firm or organization designated in her or his last will to receive such distributions. Distributions subsequent to the death of a Director or former Director shall be made in a lump sum as soon as is reasonably practicable. 8. Non-Assignability. None of the rights or interests of any Director or former Director in (a) amounts of Director Compensation deferred under this Plan; or (b) Non-Elective Deferred Units shall be assignable or transferable in whole or in part, either voluntarily or by 8
operation of law or otherwise, and shall not be subject to payment of debts by execution, levy, garnishment, attachment, pledge, bankruptcy or in any other manner. 9. Plan to Be Unfunded. The Corporation shall be under no obligation to acquire, segregate, or reserve any funds or other assets for purposes relating to this Plan and no Director or former Director shall have any rights whatsoever in or with respect to any funds or other assets held by the Corporation for purposes of this Plan or otherwise. Accounts maintained for purposes of this Plan shall merely constitute bookkeeping records of the Corporation and shall not constitute any allocation whatsoever of any assets of the Corporation or be deemed to create any trust or special deposit with respect to any of the Corporation's assets. 10. Miscellaneous. The Board, and any committee of the Board designated by the Board, shall in its sole discretion, have the complete authority to interpret this Plan, to adopt rules for carrying out the purposes of this Plan and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of this Plan. The Board or the relevant Committee, if applicable, may delegate any of its responsibilities, powers, or duties under this Plan to any person or committee. The Board, any committee of the Board, and any officer of the Corporation charged with responsibility for the administration and operation of this Plan may rely upon information supplied to them by the officers of the Corporation and by any public accountants retained by the Corporation. No member of the Board nor any officer of the Corporation charged with responsibility for the administration and operation of this Plan shall be liable, except in circumstances involving his or her bad faith, for any act or action, whether of commission or omission, taken by any other member or by any other officer, agent, or employee, for anything done or omitted to be done. The Board by duly adopted resolution may from time to time amend, suspend, terminate or reinstate any or all of the provisions of this Plan, except that no such amendment, suspension or termination shall adversely affect the Account of any Director or former Director as it existed immediately before such amendment, suspension or termination or the manner of distribution thereof, unless such Director or former Director shall have consented thereto in writing. This Plan shall be construed and governed by the laws of Delaware. 11. Compliance with Section 409A of the Code. To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Plan comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code. The Plan shall be administered in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Plan to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code shall have no force and effect until amended to comply with Section 409A of the Code (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code and may be made by the Corporation without the consent of the participants in the Plan). Notwithstanding the foregoing, no particular tax result for a Director with respect to any income recognized by the Director in connection with the Plan is guaranteed under the Plan, and the Director shall be responsible for any taxes imposed on the Director in connection with this Plan. 9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Harris Corporation does hereby adopt this amendment and restatement of the 2005 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan effective as of January 1, 2006. HARRIS CORPORATION Date: October 28, 2005 By /s/ Howard L. Lance ------------------------- -------------------------------- Howard L. Lance Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer ATTEST Scott T. Mikuen - ------------------------------- Corporate Secretary 10
Exhibit A to Harris Corporation 2005 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan
Harris Stock Equivalents Money Market Fund Balanced Fund Passive Aggregate Strategy Fund Equity Income Fund Stable Value Fund Growth Fund International Equity Fund Index Equity Fund Wilshire 4500 Index Fund Russell 2000 Growth Index Fund RCM Global Technology Fund

Exhibit 10.4 HARRIS CORPORATION 1997 DIRECTORS' DEFERRED COMPENSATION AND ANNUAL STOCK UNIT AWARD PLAN (AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2006) 1. Purpose. The purpose of this 1997 Directors' Deferred Compensation and Annual Stock Unit Award Plan (the "Plan") is (a) to establish a method of deferring Directors' compensation which will aid Harris Corporation in attracting and retaining as members of its Board persons whose abilities, experience and judgment can contribute to the continued progress of the Corporation and (b) to further align the interests of Directors with the interests of the shareholders of the Corporation through the annual grant of Harris Stock Equivalents. Prior to October 24, 1997, the first amendment and restatement of the Plan, the Plan was known as the "1997 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan," which replaced and superseded the Harris Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors, Amended as of December 2, 1994 (the "Predecessor Plan"). Effective as of December 31, 2004, no further deferral of Director Compensation shall be permitted and no further awards of Annual Units shall be granted under the Plan. Effective as of January 1, 2006, the Plan is hereby amended and restated. 2. Definitions. For the purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise: "Account" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 4(a). "Annual Units" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 5(a). "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Corporation. "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following events: (i) any "person" (as such term is defined in Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and as used in Sections 13(d)(3) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act), is or becomes a "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Corporation representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Corporation's then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (the "Corporation Voting Securities"); provided, however, that the event described in this paragraph (i) shall not be deemed to be a Change of Control by virtue of any of the following acquisitions: (a) by the Corporation or any subsidiary, (b) by any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Corporation or any subsidiary, (c) by any underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (d) pursuant to a Non-Control Transaction (as defined in paragraph (iii));
(ii) individuals who, on July 1, 2005, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to July 1, 2005, whose election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Directors who remain on the Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Corporation in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without objection to such nomination) shall also be deemed to be an Incumbent Director; provided, however, that no individual initially elected or nominated as a director of the Corporation as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to directors or any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person other than the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director; (iii) the consummation of a merger, consolidation, share exchange or similar form of corporate reorganization of the Corporation or any such type of transaction involving the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries that requires the approval of the Corporation's stockholders (whether for such transaction or the issuance of securities in the transaction or otherwise), or the consummation of the direct or indirect sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets, of the Corporation and its subsidiaries (a "Business Combination"), unless immediately following such Business Combination: (a) more than 80% of the total voting power of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, any corporation which directly or indirectly has beneficial ownership of 100% of the Corporation Voting Securities) eligible to elect directors of such corporation is represented by shares that were Corporation Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination (either by remaining outstanding or being converted), and such voting power is in substantially the same proportion as the voting power of such Corporation Voting Securities immediately prior to the Business Combination, (b) no person (other than any publicly traded holding company resulting from such Business Combination, any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Corporation (or the corporation resulting from such Business Combination)), becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities eligible to elect directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination, and (c) at least a majority of the members of the board of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were Incumbent Directors at the time of the Board's approval of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such Business Combination (any Business Combination which satisfies the conditions specified in (a), (b) and (c) shall be deemed to be a "Non-Control Transaction"); or (iv) the stockholders of the Corporation approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation or the direct or indirect sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change of Control of the Corporation shall not be deemed to occur solely because any person acquires beneficial ownership of more than 20% of the Corporation Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Corporation Voting Securities by the Corporation which reduces the number of Corporation Voting Securities outstanding; provided, that, if after such acquisition by the Corporation such person becomes the beneficial owner of additional Corporation Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding - 2 -
Corporation Voting Securities beneficially owned by such person, a Change of Control of the Corporation shall then occur. "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. "Common Stock" shall mean the common stock of Harris Corporation, par value $1.00 per share. "Corporation" means Harris Corporation, its successors, and any organization into which or with Harris Corporation may merge or consolidate or to which all or substantially all of its assets may be transferred. "Deferred Stock Units" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 4(b)(ii). "Director" shall mean a member of the Board. "Director Compensation" shall mean: (i) the annual retainer fee payable to a Director as compensation for services in that capacity, (ii) fees payable for service on any committee of the Board, (iii) fees payable for serving as a chairperson of any committee; and (iv) the fees payable to a Director for attendance at Board and committee meetings. "Exchange Act" shall have the meaning set forth in the definition of "Change of Control". "Fair Market Value" shall mean, as of any date, the closing price of the Common Stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. for the date which is the nearest trading date preceding the date on which such value is to be determined. "Harris Stock Equivalent" shall mean a unit of value equal to one share of Common Stock. "Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 4(a). "Investment Funds" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 4(a). "Plan" shall mean this 1997 Directors' Deferred Compensation and Annual Stock Unit Award Plan, as amended from time to time. "Predecessor Plan" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 1. "Retirement Plan" shall mean the Harris Corporation Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time. "Secretary" shall mean the Secretary of the Corporation. "Section 16(b)" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 4(b)(ii). "Units" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 4(b)(ii). - 3 -
3. Right to Defer Compensation. (a) (i) Any Director who is not an employee of the Corporation or one of its subsidiaries and WHO HAS NOT made an election under the Predecessor Plan to defer all or any specified part of the Director Compensation with respect to calendar year 1997 may at any time prior to August 1, 1997, elect to defer under this Plan all or any specified part of the Director Compensation to which the Director may thereafter be entitled with respect to the remainder of calendar year 1997; provided, however, that such amounts may only be credited to the Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount. (ii) Any Director who is not an employee of the Corporation or one of its subsidiaries and WHO HAS made an election under the Predecessor Plan to defer all or any specified part of the Director Compensation with respect to calendar year 1997 may at any time prior to August 1, 1997, elect to defer all or a specified part of, the Director Compensation to which the Director may thereafter be entitled with respect to the remainder of calendar year 1997; provided, however, that such amounts may only be credited to the Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount. Prior to August 1, 1997, such Director may also elect to have all or any specified part of any existing balances in her/his Account credited to the Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount. Elections to have existing balances credited into the Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount (x) made on or prior to June 30, 1997, will be effective on June 30, 1997, and (y) made on or after July 1, but prior to July 31, 1997, will be effective on July 31, 1997. Amounts credited to a Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount shall be converted into Deferred Stock Units pursuant to Paragraph 4(b)(ii). (iii) Each of the foregoing elections under this Plan for calendar year 1997 shall specify (x) in the case of an election under Paragraph 3(a)(i), the amount or part of Director Compensation to be deferred for the remainder of 1997 and (y) in the case of an election under Paragraph 3(a)(ii), the amount or part of Director Compensation and existing balances to be credited to the Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount. Any deferral elections made under the Predecessor Plan or made in accordance with Paragraph 3(a)(i) or 3(a)(ii) shall be irrevocable for 1997. (b) For calendar years subsequent to 1997, any Director who is not an employee of the Corporation or one of its subsidiaries may at any time prior to the commencement of a calendar year elect to defer under this Plan all or any specified part of the Director Compensation to which the Director may be entitled with respect to such subsequent calendar year. Any person who is not an employee of the Corporation or one of its subsidiaries who is elected as a Director and who was not a Director on the last day of the calendar year immediately prior to her/his election may, within thirty days of the commencement of her/his term, elect to defer all or any specified part of the Director Compensation to which she/he may thereafter be entitled with respect to the year in which she/he is so elected. (c) Each of the foregoing deferral elections under this Plan shall be made by written notice delivered to the Secretary, specifying the year or years with respect to which the election shall apply and the amount or part of Director Compensation to be deferred for such year or years (and in the case of an election under Paragraph 3(a)(ii) the portion of existing balances to be credited to the Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount). A deferral election under this Plan with respect to any calendar year shall be irrevocable after commencement of such calendar year or, in the case of a person who was not a Director on the last day of the calendar - 4 -
year immediately prior to her/his election, within thirty days after the commencement of her/his term. (d) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 3 and any provision in the Plan to the contrary, no deferrals of Director Compensation shall be permitted for calendar years commencing after December 31, 2004. 4. Accounts. (a) General. On the first day of the month following each calendar month in which Director Compensation deferred under this Plan would have become payable to a Director, the amount of such Director Compensation shall be credited to an account ("Account") which shall be established and maintained for such Director as a special ledger account on the Corporation's books. A Director's Account shall consist of a Harris Stock Equivalents subaccount ("Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount") and a number of other subaccounts (sometimes referred to as retirement investment subaccounts) equal to the number of investment funds available from time to time under the Retirement Plan (as set forth on Exhibit A hereto, as such exhibit may be amended from time to time). Amounts of Director Compensation credited to the Account of a Director shall be invested in accordance with the investment election of such Director among the investment funds of the Retirement Plan identified on Exhibit A hereto (other than the Harris Stock Fund), and Harris Stock Equivalents. The investment funds set forth on Exhibit A, as amended from time to time (other than the Harris Stock Fund), and Harris Stock Equivalents are sometimes referred to as the "Investment Funds". Subject to the provisions of Section 4(b) below for investments credited to the Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount and the crediting of Annual Units, a Director may invest her/his account balance or future Director Compensation in 1.0% increments in any of the Investment Funds (or in such other increments as are permitted under the Retirement Plan) and, may change her/his investment elections in a manner consistent with the changing of investment elections as set forth in the Retirement Plan. A Director's account balance and future deferred Director Compensation shall be invested in the Balanced Fund described on Exhibit A until the Director makes a valid investment election pursuant to this Paragraph 4. Earnings and losses with respect to a Director's Account shall be allocated to such Account with the same frequency and in the same manner as allocations under the Retirement Plan. (b) Special Rules Concerning Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccounts. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Plan to the contrary, the following rules shall apply to investments credited to the Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccounts (including, as appropriate, Annual Units credited to the Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount of a Director's Account). (i) Restrictions On Intra-Plan Transfers into and out of the Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccounts. A Director may not make an election to transfer or reallocate amounts invested in any of the Director's retirement investment subaccounts into the Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount. Subject to any restrictions imposed by Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act ("Section 16(b)"), amounts invested in the Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount, including Annual Units, may thereafter be reallocated to any other retirement investment subaccount by the Director only if any such reallocation does not cause the Director to fail to satisfy the Corporation's minimum stock ownership guidelines applicable to such Director. - 5 -
(ii) Value of Harris Stock Equivalents. Amounts of Director's Compensation deferred by a Director hereunder which the Director elects to be invested in Harris Stock Equivalents shall be credited to the Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount on the first day of the month following each calendar month in which such amount would be payable. The Corporation shall credit a Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount with that number of units (including fractions) obtained by dividing such amounts by the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date such amounts are credited to the Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount (such Harris Stock Equivalents are sometimes referred to herein as "Deferred Stock Units"). In the case of Annual Units, each Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount shall be credited with a number of Annual Units on January 1 of each year as set forth in Paragraph 5(a). Deferred Stock Units and Annual Units are sometimes referred to collectively as "Units." (iii) Earnings on Harris Stock Equivalents. A Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount shall be credited with the amount of cash dividends payable with respect to that number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Units (including fractions) credited to such subaccount on the date on which dividend payments are credited under the Retirement Plan (which may be the ex-dividend date). The amount of cash dividends so credited shall then be converted into Units in the manner described above using the Fair Market Value on the same day, and in a manner consistent with the Retirement Plan. (iv) Reallocations of Future Investments into Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount. Subject to any restrictions imposed by Section 16(b), changes in investment elections with respect to future crediting of Director's Compensation into the Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount may be made at the Director's discretion, except that a Director shall have no investment discretion with respect to the crediting of Annual Units. (v) Adjustments to Avoid Dilution. In the event of any stock dividend or split, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, extraordinary dividends, combination or exchange of shares or other similar event, the value and attributes of each Unit shall be appropriately adjusted consistent with such change to the same extent as if such Units were issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock. Such adjustments shall be made by the Board and shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes of the Plan. (vi) Cash Distributions. Distributions from a Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount shall be made in cash with the amount of cash to be paid on account of each Unit being determined by reference to the Fair Market Value on the last day of the month preceding the date of distribution. (vii) No Rights as Shareholder. A Director shall not have any rights as a shareholder of the Corporation with respect to any Units credited to the Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount. 5. Annual Awards of Deferred Stock Units; Conversion Award. (a) Annual Unit Awards. On January 1 of each year, commencing with January 1, 1998, the Corporation shall credit the Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount of each Director who - 6 -
is not an employee of the Corporation or one of its subsidiaries with 500 Harris Stock Equivalents. The number of Annual Units to be credited on each January 1 may be changed from time to time by a resolution adopted by the Board. All such annually awarded units shall be referred to herein as the "Annual Units." (b) Conversion Award. On January 1, 1998, a Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount shall be credited with a number of Harris Stock Equivalents equal to the actuarial present value of the Director's annual retirement benefit (assuming retirement at age 72) under the Directors' Retirement Plan if, as of January 1, 1998; either (i) the Director had less than ten years of service under such Plan or (ii) the Director had ten or more years of service under such Plan and elected to have such actuarial present value transferred to the Plan. The number of Harris Stock Equivalents to be credited to such a Director's Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount shall be determined in the manner described in Paragraph 4(b)(ii) as of January 1, 1998, except that the fair market value shall be equal to the average daily closing price for the Common Stock for the period from October 1, 1997 through December 31, 1997. (c) Cessation of Annual Unit Awards. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5 and any provision in the Plan to the contrary, no awards of Annual Units shall be granted after December 31, 2004. 6. Payment of Deferred Director Compensation and Annual Units. In accordance with the forms of payment permissible under this Paragraph 6, a Director shall elect the time or times in which the amounts credited to her/his Account, including Annual Units credited to the Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount, shall be paid by a written election delivered to the Secretary at the time such Director elects to participate in this Plan. A Director may modify his or her election at any time before the beginning of the 120-day period immediately preceding the effective date of the Director's resignation or retirement, at which time the election shall become irrevocable; provided, however, that if a Director has Units credited to his/her Harris Stock Equivalents Subaccount, no such modification shall be made without the prior approval of the Board or a committee comprised solely of "non-employee directors" as defined in Rule 16b-3(b)(3) under the Exchange Act, as amended from time to time if such approval is advisable to avoid exposing a Director to a claim for recovery of short swing profits under Section 16(b). Payments must commence no later than age 72. A Director's payout election shall apply to all amounts credited to a Director's Account and all earnings thereon regardless of the year in which the amounts were deferred or credited. Upon a Director's resignation or retirement, amounts credited to the Director's Account shall be payable to her/him at her/his election in (i) a cash lump sum on a date certain within five (5) years of resignation or retirement or (ii) in annual payments over a designated number of years provided the Account is fully paid within ten (10) years of resignation or retirement. Annual payments shall be made on or before January 15. Until a Director's Account has been completely distributed, earnings and losses on the unpaid balance thereof shall be allocated as provided in Paragraph 4 above. Notwithstanding any provision of this Section 6 to the contrary, if advisable to avoid exposing a Director to a claim for recovery of short swing profits under Section 16(b), prior to the payment of the amount reflected in the Director's Account, such payment must be approved in advance by the Board or a Committee comprised solely of "non-employee directors" as defined in Rule 16(b)-3(b)(3) under the Exchange Act, as amended. - 7 -
7. Payments in Connection with Change of Control. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Plan to the contrary, within 90 days following a Change of Control, the Corporation shall pay to each Director (or former Director) a cash lump sum payment equal to the then remaining balance in his/her Account. This Paragraph may not be amended, altered or modified following a Change of Control. 8. Modification of Payment Terms in Certain Circumstances. If after a person shall have ceased to be a Director, but prior to full payment to such person of the entire amount of her or his Account, the Director shall, after reasonable warning from the Board, persist in an affiliation with any business that is a principal competitor with a significant portion of the business conducted by the Corporation, the entire balance of such Account may, if directed by the Board in its sole discretion, be paid immediately to such person in a lump sum. 9. Payment in the Event of Death. In the event a Director or former Director dies prior to receiving payment of the entire amount of her or his Account, the unpaid balance shall be paid to such beneficiary as the Director may have designated in a written notice delivered to the Secretary as the person, firm or trust to receive any such post-death distribution under this Plan or, in the absence of such written designation, to the former Director's legal representative or any person, firm or organization designated in her or his last will to receive such distributions. Distributions subsequent to the death of a Director or former Director shall be made in a lump sum. 10. Non-Assignability. None of the rights or interests of any Director or former Director in amounts of compensation deferred under this Plan or Annual Units shall be assignable or transferable in whole or in part, either voluntarily or by operation of law or otherwise, and shall not be subject to payment of debts by execution, levy, garnishment, attachment, pledge, bankruptcy or in any other manner. 11. Plan to Be Unfunded. The Corporation shall be under no obligation to acquire, segregate, or reserve any funds or other assets for purposes relating to this Plan and no Director or former Director shall have any rights whatsoever in or with respect to any funds or other assets held by the Corporation for purposes of this Plan or otherwise. Accounts maintained for purposes of this Plan shall merely constitute bookkeeping records of the Corporation and shall not constitute any allocation whatsoever of any assets of the Corporation or be deemed to create any trust or special deposit with respect to any of the Corporation's assets. 12. Miscellaneous. The Board, any committee of the Board, and any officer of the Corporation charged with responsibility for the administration and operation of this Plan may rely upon information supplied to them by the officers of the Corporation and by the Corporation's independent certified public accountants. No member of the Board nor any officer of the Corporation charged with responsibility for the administration and operation of this Plan shall be liable, except in circumstances involving his or her bad faith, for any act or action, whether of commission or omission, taken by any other member or by any other officer, agent, or employee, for anything done or omitted to be done. The Board may from time to time amend, suspend, terminate or reinstate any or all of the provisions of this Plan, except that no such amendment, suspension or termination shall adversely affect the Account of any Director or former Director as it existed immediately before such amendment, suspension or termination or - 8 -
the manner of distribution thereof, unless such Director or former Director shall have consented thereto in writing. This Plan shall be construed and governed by the laws of Delaware. 13. Section 409A of the Code. It is intended that this Plan qualify for "grandfathered" status and continue to be governed by the law applicable to nonqualified deferred compensation prior to enactment of Section 409A of the Code. This Plan shall be administered in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause this Plan to fail to qualify for such "grandfathered" status shall have no force and effect. - 9 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Harris Corporation does hereby amend and restate this 1997 Directors' Deferred Compensation and Annual Stock Unit Award Plan as of January 1, 2006. HARRIS CORPORATION Date: October 28, 2005 By /s/ Howard L. Lance ------------------------- -------------------------------- Howard L. Lance Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer ATTEST Scott T. Mikuen - ------------------------------- Corporate Secretary - 10 -
EXHIBIT A TO HARRIS CORPORATION 1997 DIRECTORS' DEFERRED COMPENSATION AND ANNUAL STOCK UNIT AWARD PLAN
Harris Stock Equivalents Money Market Fund Balanced Fund Passive Aggregate Equity Income Fund Stable Value Fund Growth Fund International Equity Fund Index Equity Fund Wilshire 4500 Russell 2000 Global Technology
- 11 -

Exhibit 10.5 HARRIS CORPORATION RETIREMENT PLAN (AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2005)
. . . HARRIS CORPORATION RETIREMENT PLAN (AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2005) Table of Contents -i-
Table of Contents (continued) -ii-
Table of Contents (continued) -iii-
Table of Contents (continued) -iv-
ARTICLE 1 TITLE The title of this Plan shall be the "Harris Corporation Retirement Plan." This Plan is an amendment and restatement of the Plan in effect as of September 30, 2005. This amendment and restatement shall be effective October 1, 2005. The rights and benefits of any Participant whose employment with all Employers and Affiliates terminates on or after October 1, 2005, and the rights and benefits of any Beneficiary of any such Participant, shall be determined solely by reference to the terms of the Plan as amended and restated herein, as may be amended from time to time. The rights and benefits of any Participant whose employment with all Employers and Affiliates terminated prior to October 1, 2005 and who is not reemployed after such date, and the rights and benefits of any Beneficiary of any such Participant, generally shall be determined solely by reference to the terms of the Plan as in effect on the date of the Participant's termination of employment. The Plan is designated as a "profit sharing plan" within the meaning of U.S. Treasury Regulation section 1.401-1(a)(2)(ii). ARTICLE 2 DEFINITIONS As used herein, the following words and phrases shall have the following respective meanings when capitalized: Account. The aggregate of a Participant's accounts described in Section 8.1 and such other accounts that may be established from time to time on behalf of a Participant, to be credited with contributions made by or on behalf of the Participant, adjusted for earnings and losses, and debited by distributions to and withdrawals of the Participant and expenses.
Administrative Committee. The Employee Benefits Committee of the Company or any successor thereto that is appointed pursuant to Section 13.1 to administer the Plan. Reference herein to the Administrative Committee also shall include any person to whom the Administrative Committee has delegated any of its authority pursuant to Section 13.3 to the extent of the delegation. Affiliate. (a) A corporation that is a member of the same controlled group of corporations (within the meaning of section 414(b) of the Code) as an Employer, (b) a trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control (within the meaning of section 414(c) of the Code) with an Employer, (c) any organization (whether or not incorporated) that is a member of an affiliated service group (within the meaning of section 414(m) of the Code) that includes an Employer, a corporation described in clause (a) of this subdivision or a trade or business described in clause (b) of this subdivision, or (d) any other entity that is required to be aggregated with an Employer pursuant to Regulations promulgated under section 414(o) of the Code. After-Tax Account. The account established pursuant to Section 8.1 to which any after-tax contributions made for the benefit of a Participant pursuant to Section 5.1, and earnings and losses thereon, are credited. Beneficiary. A person entitled under Section 9.7 to receive benefits in the event of the death of a Participant. Board. The Board of Directors of the Company. Break in Service. A period other than a period included in an Employee's Service; provided, however, that a Break in Service shall not include a period of absence from employment not in excess of 24 consecutive months because of (a) the Employee's pregnancy, 2
(b) the birth of the Employee's child, (c) the placement of a child with the Employee in connection with the Employee's adoption of such child or (d) the need of the Employee to care for any such child for a period beginning immediately following such birth or placement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the immediately preceding sentence shall not apply unless the Employee timely furnishes to the Administrative Committee or its delegate such information as it may reasonably require to establish the reason for such absence and its duration. Change of Control. For purposes hereof, a "Change of Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if: (a) any "person" (as such term is defined in section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and as used in sections 13(d)(3) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) is or becomes a "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (the "Company Voting Securities"); provided however, that the event described in this paragraph (a) shall not be deemed to be a Change of Control by virtue of any of the following acquisitions: (1) by the Company or any Subsidiary, (2) by any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary, (3) by any underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (4) pursuant to a "Non-Control Transaction" (as defined in paragraph (c)); (b) individuals who, on July 1, 2002, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to July 1, 2002, whose election or 3
nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Directors who remain on the Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without objection to such nomination) shall also be deemed to be an Incumbent Director; provided, however, that no individual initially elected or nominated as a director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to directors or any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person other than the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director; (c) the consummation of a merger, consolidation, share exchange or similar form of corporate reorganization of the Company or any such type of transaction involving the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that requires the approval of the Company's stockholders (whether for such transaction or the issuance of securities in the transaction or otherwise) (a "Business Combination"), unless immediately following such Business Combination: (1) more than 80% of the total voting power of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, any corporation which directly or indirectly has beneficial ownership of 100% of the Company Voting Securities) eligible to elect directors of such corporation is represented by shares that were Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination (either by remaining outstanding or being converted), and such voting power is in substantially the same proportion as the voting power of such Company Voting Securities immediately prior to the Business Combination, (2) no person (other than any publicly traded holding company resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company (or the corporation resulting from such 4
Business Combination)), becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities eligible to elect directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination, and (3) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were Incumbent Directors at the time of the Board's approval of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such Business Combination (any Business Combination which satisfies the conditions specified in (1), (2) and (3) shall be deemed to be a "Non-Control Transaction"); or (d) the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or the direct or indirect sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a "Change of Control" shall not occur solely because any person acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of the Company Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding; provided however, that if after such acquisition by the Company such person becomes the beneficial owner of additional Company Voting Securities that increase the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities beneficially owned by such person, a "Change of Control" shall then occur. For purposes of this definition of "Change of Control," the term "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation or other entity in which the Company has a direct or indirect ownership interest of 50% or more of the total combined voting power of the then outstanding securities of such corporation or other entity entitled to vote generally in the election of directors 5
or in which the Company has the right to receive 50% or more of the distribution of profits or 50% or more of the assets on liquidation or dissolution. Code. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Company. Harris Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and any successor thereto. Compensation. The following items of remuneration which a Participant earns for work or personal services performed for an Employer: (a) salary or wages, including lump sum merit increases; (b) commission paid pursuant to a sales incentive plan; (c) overtime premium, shift differential or additional compensation in lieu of overtime premium; (d) compensation in lieu of vacation; (e) any annual bonus or incentive compensation payable in the form of cash pursuant to the Harris Corporation Annual Incentive Plan or any successor thereto or other similar plan or award program adopted from time to time by an Employer or any stock award made in lieu of an annual cash bonus or incentive compensation; (f) any compensation of a type described in items (a) through (e) above which is paid as an employee contribution to the Plan; (g) any salary reduction contributions to a cafeteria plan (within the meaning of section 125 of the Code) or a non-qualified deferred compensation plan maintained by an Employer; or (h) any salary reduction contributions to an arrangement maintained by an Employer providing qualified transportation fringes (within the meaning of section 132(f)(4) of the Code). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following items shall be excluded from "Compensation": (1) any extraordinary compensation of a recurring or non-recurring nature not included under items (a) through (h) above, including one-time recognition awards and rewards under a referral program of an Employer; (2) any award made or amount paid pursuant to the Harris Corporation Stock Incentive Plan or any successor thereto, including, but not limited to, performance shares, 6
stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights or other stock-based awards or dividend equivalents; (3) severance pay, separation pay or special retirement pay; (4) retention bonuses or completion bonuses, unless authorized by the Administrative Committee in a uniform and nondiscriminatory manner to be included in Compensation; (5) reimbursement or allowances with respect to expenses incurred in connection with employment, such as tax equalization, reimbursement for moving expenses, mileage or expense allowance or education expenses; or (6) indirect compensation such as employer-paid group insurance premiums or contributions under this Plan or any other qualified employee benefit plan, other than a contribution described in item (f) or (h) above. Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, the Compensation of a Participant taken into account for any purpose under the Plan shall not exceed $200,000 (as adjusted pursuant to section 401(a)(17)(B) of the Code). In addition, in the Plan Year in which an Eligible Employee becomes a Participant, only Compensation received on or after the date he or she becomes a Participant shall be taken into account under the Plan. Compensation Committee. The Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board. Reference herein to the Compensation Committee also shall include any person to whom the Compensation Committee has delegated any of its authority pursuant to Section 13.3. Consolidated Subsidiaries. The Company's subsidiaries which are included in the consolidated annual financial statements for the Company. Disability. A Participant's total and permanent physical or mental disability, as evidenced by the Participant's eligibility for disability benefits under Title II or Title XVI of the 7
Federal Social Security Act. A Participant's Disability shall be deemed to occur as of the effective date determined by the Social Security Administration. Earnings Per Share. The net income per share of Harris Stock (on a diluted basis) for the applicable Plan Year, as determined by the Company and as publicly reported in filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission or otherwise. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, for purposes of this Plan the Earnings Per Share may be increased, decreased or otherwise adjusted by the Management Development and Compensation Committee or the Board at any time before the EPS Profit Sharing Contribution is paid to the Trust for such Plan Year in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements or changes in applicable laws, regulations or accounting principles, including, without limitation: (a) any stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, recapitalization, or other change in the capital structure of the Company, (b) any merger, consolidation, spin-off, split-off, spin-out, split-up, reorganization, partial or complete liquidation, or other distribution of assets or issuance of rights or warrants to purchase securities, (c) any other corporate transaction or event having an effect similar to any of the foregoing or (d) any other extraordinary nonrecurring event. Effective Date. The effective date of this amendment and restatement of the Plan, which, with respect to the Company and any other Employer as of December 31, 2002 shall, except as otherwise provided in Article 1, be January 1, 2003 and, with respect to an entity that becomes an Employer on or after January 1, 2003, shall be the effective date as of which the Plan is adopted by such entity. Eligible Employee. An Employee other than an Employee (a) the terms of whose employment are subject to a collective bargaining agreement which does not provide for the 8
participation of such Employee in the Plan; (b) who does not receive any Compensation payable in United States dollars; (c) who is not treated as an employee of an Employer on such Employer's payroll records (notwithstanding any determination by a court or administrative agency that such individual is an Employee); (d) who is not a United States citizen or a resident alien who provides services in a location other than the United States or (e) who is designated by the Company as belonging to the separate and distinct business unit that is known as Harris Orkand Information Systems (business unit 00211) (or such other designation and name for that unit that may be instituted from time to time). No individual who renders services for an Employer shall be an Eligible Employee if such individual renders services pursuant to an agreement or arrangement (written or oral) (1) that such services are to be rendered by the individual as an independent contractor; (2) with an entity, including a leasing organization within the meaning of section 414(n)(2) of the Code, that is not an Employer or Affiliate or (3) that contains a waiver of participation in the Plan. Eligible Profit Sharing Participant. For any Plan Year, a Participant who has completed a Year of Service on or prior to the last day of the applicable Plan Year and who (a) is actively employed as an Eligible Employee on the earlier of (1) the last day of such Plan Year or (2) the June 30th nearest to the last day of such Plan Year (the "Eligibility Date"); (b) was actively employed as an Eligible Employee during such Plan Year but is not actively employed on the Eligibility Date due to Leave of Absence or a period of Qualified Military Service; or (c) was actively employed as an Eligible Employee during such Plan Year but terminated employment during such Plan Year (1) on or after the attainment of age 55, (2) due to death or Disability, (3) as a result of a Reduction in Force or (4) as a result of a transfer from employment with an Employer to employment with an Affiliate that is not an Employer. 9
Employee. An individual whose relationship with an Employer is, under common law, that of an employee. Employer. The Company or any other entity that, with the consent of the Compensation Committee, elects to participate in the Plan in the manner described in Section 14.1, including any successor entity that is substituted for an Employer pursuant to Section 14.4. If an Employer withdraws from participation in the Plan pursuant to Section 14.2, or terminates its participation in the Plan pursuant to Section 17.3, it shall thereupon cease to be an Employer. An entity shall cease being an Employer as of the date it ceases to be an Affiliate, unless the Compensation Committee consents to such entity's continued participation in the Plan. ERISA. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. Excess Compensation. The portion of a Participant's Compensation that exceeds the Taxable Wage Base for the applicable Plan Year. Executive Committee. The Executive and Finance Committee of the Board (or such other committee of the Board as the Board may designate from time to time). Reference herein to the Executive Committee also shall include any person to whom the Executive Committee has delegated any of its authority pursuant to Section 13.3. Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the Company. Full-Time Employee. An Employee who regularly is scheduled by an Employer to work 30 or more hours per week and who is not designated on the payroll records of an Employer as a temporary Employee, intern, or co-op Employee. Harris Stock. Common stock of the Company. Harris Stock Fund. An investment option, the assets of which consist primarily of shares of Harris Stock. 10
Highly Compensated Employee. For a Plan Year, any Employee who (a) is a 5%-owner (as determined under section 416(i)(1) of the Code) at any time during the current Plan Year or the preceding Plan Year or (b) for the preceding Plan Year, was paid compensation in excess of $90,000 (as adjusted in accordance with section 414(q)(1)(B) of the Code) from an Employer or Affiliate and was a member of the "top-paid group" (as defined in section 414(q)(3) of the Code). Hour of Service. Each hour for which an Employee is paid or entitled to payment for the performance of duties for an Employer. Investment Committee. The Investment Committee -- Employee Benefit Plans of the Company. Reference herein to the Investment Committee also shall include any person to whom the Investment Committee has delegated any of its authority pursuant to Section 13.3. Leave of Absence. A period of interruption of the active employment of an Employee granted by an Employer or Predecessor Company with the understanding that the Employee will return to active employment at the expiration of such period (or such extension thereof granted by the Employer or Predecessor Company). The term "Leave of Absence" does not include a period of Qualified Military Service. Matching Account. The account established pursuant to Section 8.1 to which any matching contributions made for the benefit of a Participant pursuant to Section 4.2, and earnings and losses thereon, are credited. Maximum Contribution Percentage. The maximum percentage of a Participant's Compensation for a payroll period that may be contributed to the Plan pursuant to Section 5.1, as determined from time to time by the Administrative Committee. The Administrative Committee in its sole discretion may establish different Maximum Contribution Percentages with respect to 11
Participants who are not Highly Compensated Employees for a given Plan Year and Participants who are Highly Compensated Employees for such Plan Year, and with respect to classes of Highly Compensated Employees for a given Plan Year. Maximum Deferral Percentage. The maximum percentage of a Participant's Compensation for a payroll period that may be contributed to the Plan pursuant to Section 4.1(a), as determined from time to time by the Administrative Committee. The Administrative Committee in its sole discretion may establish different Maximum Deferral Percentages with respect to Participants who are not Highly Compensated Employees for a given Plan Year and Participants who are Highly Compensated Employees for such Plan Year, and with respect to classes of Highly Compensated Employees for a given Plan Year. Participant. An Eligible Employee who has satisfied the requirements set forth in Section 3.1. An individual shall cease to be a Participant upon the complete distribution of his or her vested Account. Plan. The plan herein set forth, as from time to time amended. Plan Year. The Fiscal Year. Predecessor Company. Any entity (a) of which an Affiliate is a successor by reason of having acquired all or substantially all of its business and assets or (b) from which an Affiliate acquired a business formerly conducted by such entity; provided, however, that in the case of any such entity that continues to conduct a trade or business subsequent to the acquisition by an Affiliate referred in (a) or (b) above, the status of such entity as a Predecessor Company relates only to the period of time prior to the date of such acquisition. 12
Pre-Tax Account. The account established pursuant to Section 8.1 to which any pre-tax contributions made for the benefit of a Participant pursuant to Section 4.1, and earnings and losses thereon, are credited. Profit Sharing Account. The account established pursuant to Section 8.1 to which any profit sharing contributions made for the benefit of a Participant pursuant to Section 4.3, and earnings and losses thereon, are credited. Qualified Military Service. An individual's service in the uniformed services (as defined in 38 U.S.C. Section 4303) if such individual is entitled to reemployment rights under USERRA with respect to such service. Reduction in Force. An involuntary or voluntary reduction in force, as defined in the Company's Severance Pay Program. Regulations. Written regulations promulgated by the Department of Labor construing Title I of ERISA or by the Internal Revenue Service construing the Code. Rollover Account. The account established pursuant to Section 8.1 to which any rollover contributions made by a Participant pursuant to Section 5.2, and earnings and losses thereon, are credited. Savings Account. The account established pursuant to Section 8.1 to which any savings contributions under the Plan as in effect prior to July 1, 1983, and earnings and losses thereon, are credited. Service. The aggregate of the periods during which an Employee is employed by an Employer and any periods of employment or service taken into account pursuant to Sections 11.3 and 11.4, subject to the following: 13
(a) An Employee shall be deemed to be employed by an Employer during (1) any period of absence from employment by an Employer that is of less than twelve months' duration, (2) the first twelve months of any period of absence from employment by an Employer for any reason other than the Employee's quitting, retiring, being discharged or death, and (3) any period of absence from employment by an Employer during which the Employee is in Qualified Military Service, provided that the Employee returns to the employ of an Employer within the period prescribed by USERRA. (b) An Employee's period of employment by an entity other than an Affiliate that becomes a Predecessor Company shall be included as Service only to the extent expressly provided in the documents effecting the acquisition or otherwise required by law. (c) An Employee's period of employment by an entity in which the Company owns less than 80% but more than 1% of the outstanding equity interest (a "joint venture") shall be included as Service if (1) the Company or its delegate designates employment with the joint venture as eligible for service credit under the Plan; (2) such Employee was employed by an Affiliate prior to such Employee's employment by the joint venture and was not employed by any person or entity other than an Affiliate (an "unrelated employer") between such Employee's employment by an Affiliate and the joint venture; and (3) such Employee returns to employment with an Affiliate following the Employee's termination of employment with the joint venture without having been employed by an unrelated employer between such Employee's employment by the joint venture and an Affiliate. 14
(d) Solely for purposes of determining the nonforfeitable portion of a Participant's Account under Section 9.2(b), if an Employee (1) is terminated by an Employer or Affiliate in connection with a Reduction in Force and (2) has, as of the date of such termination, completed at least One Year of Service, the Service of the Employee shall include the first twelve months of absence from employment, effective as of the date of such termination of employment. Service shall be computed in terms of completed years and completed days. Taxable Wage Base. The maximum amount of earnings that may be considered wages under section 3121(a)(1) of the Code, except for purposes of Medicare taxes, as in effect on the first day of a Plan Year. Trust. The trust described in Section 7.1 and created by agreement between the Company and the Trustee. Trust Fund. All money and property of every kind of the Trust held by the Trustee pursuant to the terms of the agreement governing the Trust. Trustee. The person or entity appointed by the Executive Committee and serving as trustee of the Trust or, if there is more than one such trustee acting at a particular time, all of such trustees collectively. USERRA. The Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994, as amended. Valuation Date. Each day on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for trading and any other day determined by the Administrative Committee. Year of Service. A period of Service of 365 days. 15
ARTICLE 3 PARTICIPATION Section 3.1. Eligibility for Participation. Each Eligible Employee who was a Participant immediately before the Effective Date shall continue to be a Participant as of the Effective Date. Each other Eligible Employee who is a Full-Time Employee shall become a Participant on the day he or she first performs an Hour of Service. Each other Eligible Employee who is not a Full-Time Employee shall become a Participant on the day he or she first completes a Year of Service. Section 3.2. Election of Pre-Tax Contributions and After-Tax Contributions. (a) Participant Election. A Participant who desires to make pre-tax contributions or after-tax contributions to the Plan shall make an election, in accordance with procedures prescribed by the Administrative Committee, specifying the Participant's chosen rate of such contributions. Such election shall authorize the Participant's Employer to reduce the Participant's Compensation by the amount of any such pre-tax contributions, shall authorize the Participant's Employer to make regular payroll deductions of any such after-tax contributions, shall specify the Participant's investment election as described in Section 8.2(a) and shall evidence the Participant's acceptance and agreement to all provisions of the Plan. Any election made pursuant to this Section 3.2(a) shall be effective only with respect to Compensation not immediately available to the Participant as of the effective date of such election and shall be effective as of the first payroll period commencing after the date on which the election is received, or such later date as may be administratively practicable. (b) Deemed Election for Full-Time Employees. A Participant who is a Full-Time Employee and who does not at the time and in the manner prescribed by the Administrative 16
Committee elect otherwise shall be deemed to have elected to make pre-tax contributions to the Plan each payroll period at the rate of 6% of the Participant's Compensation for such payroll period and to have authorized the Participant's Employer to reduce his or her Compensation by the amount thereof. Any deemed election described in this Section 3.2(b) shall be effective only with respect to Compensation not immediately available to the Participant as of the effective date of the deemed election and shall be effective as of the first payroll period commencing after the Participant becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, or such later date as may be administratively practicable. Section 3.3. Transfers to Affiliates. If a Participant is transferred from one Employer to another Employer or from an Employer to an Affiliate that is not an Employer, such transfer shall not terminate the Participant's participation in the Plan, and such Participant shall continue to participate in the Plan until an event occurs which would have entitled the Participant to a complete distribution of the Participant's vested interest in his or her Account had the Participant continued to be employed by an Employer until the occurrence of such event. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant shall not be entitled to make pre-tax contributions, after-tax contributions or rollover contributions to the Plan, to receive under the Plan allocations of matching contributions or to receive under the Plan allocations of profit sharing contributions during any period of employment by an Affiliate that is not an Employer, and periods of employment by an Affiliate that is not an Employer shall be taken into account only to the extent set forth in Section 11.3. Payments that are received by a Participant from an Affiliate that is not an Employer shall not be treated as Compensation for any purpose under the Plan. 17
ARTICLE 4 PRE-TAX, MATCHING AND PROFIT SHARING CONTRIBUTIONS Section 4.1. Pre-Tax Contributions. (a) Initial Election. Subject to the limitations set forth in Article 6, each Employer shall make a pre-tax contribution for each payroll period on behalf of each Participant who is an Eligible Employee of such Employer in an amount equal to a whole percentage of such Participant's Compensation for such payroll period as elected by the Participant pursuant to Section 3.2. The percentage of Compensation so designated by a Participant for a payroll period may not be less than 1% and may not be more than the Maximum Deferral Percentage with respect to such Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the aggregate of a Participant's pre-tax contributions for a payroll period pursuant to this Section 4.1(a) and a Participant's after-tax contributions for a payroll period pursuant to Section 5.1 may not exceed an amount equal to the Maximum Deferral Percentage with respect to such Participant. (b) Changes in the Rate or Suspension of Pre-Tax Contributions. A Participant's pre-tax contributions shall continue in effect at the rate elected by the Participant pursuant to Section 3.2 until the Participant changes or suspends such election. A Participant may change or suspend such election at such time and in such manner as may be prescribed by the Administrative Committee, provided that only the last change made by a Participant during a payroll period shall be effectuated. Such change or suspension shall be effective as of the first payroll period commencing after the date on which the change or suspension is received, or such later payroll period as may be administratively practicable. A Participant who has suspended pre-tax contributions pursuant to this subsection may resume pre-tax contributions by making an election at such time and in such manner as may be prescribed by the Administrative Committee. 18
(c) Catch-Up Contributions. Each Participant who (i) is eligible to make pre-tax contributions under the Plan and (ii) will attain age 50 before the end of a calendar year ending with or within a Plan Year shall be eligible to have pre-tax contributions made on his or her behalf in addition to those described in Section 4.1(a) ("catch-up contributions"). Catch-up contributions shall be elected, made, suspended, resumed and credited in accordance with and subject to the rules and limitations of section 414(v) of the Code and such other rules and limitations prescribed by the Administrative Committee from time to time; provided, however, that (i) the amount of catch-up contributions made on behalf of a Participant during a calendar year shall not exceed the maximum amount permitted under section 414(v)(2) of the Code for the calendar year ($2,000 for 2003); (ii) the amount of catch-up contributions made on behalf of a Participant for a payroll period shall not exceed the percentage of the Participant's Compensation that is established from time to time by the Administrative Committee and (iii) no matching contributions shall be made pursuant to Section 4.2 in connection with catch-up contributions. Catch-up contributions shall not be taken into account for purposes of Sections 6.1 and 6.3, and the Plan shall not be treated as failing to satisfy its provisions implementing the requirements of section 401(k)(3), 401(k)(11), 401(k)(12), 410(b) or 416 of the Code, as applicable, by reason of the making of catch-up contributions. Section 4.2. Matching Contributions. (a) Basic. Subject to the limitations set forth in Article 6, each Employer shall make a matching contribution for each payroll period on behalf of each Participant who is an Eligible Employee of such Employer, and who has completed a Year of Service, in an amount equal to 100% of the aggregate of (i) the pre-tax contribution made on behalf of such Participant pursuant to Section 4.1 and (ii) the after-tax contribution made on behalf of such Participant pursuant to Section 5.1, provided that the 19
matching contribution shall not exceed 6% of the Participant's Compensation for such payroll period. (b) Discounted Stock Contribution. Subject to the limitations set forth in Article 6, each Employer may, in its discretion, make a matching contribution for each payroll period (in addition to the matching contribution made pursuant to Section 4.2(a)) on behalf of each Participant who is an Eligible Employee of such Employer and who (i) has completed a Year of Service, (ii) for such payroll period makes a pre-tax contribution to the Plan pursuant to Section 4.1 or an after-tax contribution to the Plan pursuant to Section 5.1 and (iii) elects that all or a portion of such contribution be invested in the Harris Stock Fund (with the result that pursuant to Section 8.2(c) any related matching contributions also are invested in the Harris Stock Fund). The amount of any matching contribution made pursuant to this Section 4.2(b) shall be determined in the Company's sole discretion. (c) Special Encoda Matching Contribution. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, matching contributions for the period from January 1, 2005 through June 30, 2005 to Participants who are Eligible Employees of Encoda Systems Inc. shall be calculated as follows. Matching contributions shall be in the amount specified in Subsection (a) of this Section 4.2; provided, however, that the matching contributions relating to pre-tax or after-tax contributions that are attributable to the annual bonus that is paid to such Eligible Employees in February of 2005 shall be in an amount equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of such contributions; subject to a maximum of 1.25% of such bonus (and also subject to any other limitations contained in the Plan). Section 4.3. Profit Sharing Contributions. (a) EPS Profit Sharing Contributions. 20
(1) Subject to the limitations below and set forth in Article 6 and Section 8.6(c), for each Plan Year the Employers shall make a profit sharing contribution (the "EPS Profit Sharing Contribution") to the Trust on behalf of each Eligible Profit Sharing Participant in an amount equal to a specified percentage of such Participant's Compensation; provided however, that a EPS Profit Sharing Contribution shall not be made for any Plan Year in which the Company does not have any net profits (which, for this purpose, are defined as net income or profits for the Plan Year determined on the basis of the Company's books of account in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, without any reduction for taxes based upon income or for contributions made to this Plan or any qualified retirement plan). The EPS Profit Sharing Contribution (if any) shall be allocated to the Account of each Eligible Profit Sharing Participant in the manner and amounts provided as follows: (i) Percentage applicable to Compensation up to the Taxable Wage Base, (ii) The EPS Profit Sharing Contribution percentage applicable to Excess Compensation will be double the percentage 21
applicable for Compensation up to the Taxable Wage Base, subject to the restrictions in Section 8.6(c). (iii) For purposes of determining the amount of the EPS Profit Sharing Contribution hereunder, if Earnings Per Share for a particular Plan Year exceeds the Minimum Earnings Per Share Target but is less than the Maximum Target Earnings Per Share Target, the EPS Profit Sharing Contribution shall be determined using straight line interpolations. (iv) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the total EPS Profit Sharing Contribution amount exceed the Company's net profits (as previously defined) for the Plan Year. (2) Establishment of Earnings Per Share Targets. No later than 90 days after the first day of each Plan Year, the Compensation Committee or the Board shall establish the Minimum Earnings Per Share Target and the Maximum Earnings Per Share Target for such Plan Year. (b) Special Profit Sharing Contributions. Subject to the limitations set forth in Article 6 and Section 8.6, the Employers, at the direction of the Company, may, in their discretion, make a profit sharing contribution for a Plan Year (in addition to the EPS Profit Sharing Contribution made pursuant to subsection (a) above, if any) in a specified dollar amount or pursuant to a formula, to be allocated to Eligible Profit Sharing Participants in accordance with the following formula. A special profit sharing contribution for a Plan Year made pursuant to this Section 4.3(b) shall be allocated among the Eligible Profit Sharing Participants in the 22
proportion that the aggregate of the Compensation and Excess Compensation paid by the Employers or the Company to each such Eligible Profit Sharing Participant during such Plan Year bears to the aggregate of the total Compensation and Excess Compensation paid by the Employers or the Company to all such Eligible Profit Sharing Participants during such Plan Year. Section 4.4. Deposit of Contributions. An Employer shall deliver to the Trustee any pre-tax contributions for a payroll period as soon as administratively practicable after the date such contributions otherwise would have been paid to the Participants as cash compensation, but in no event later than the 15th business day of the month following the month during which such contributions otherwise would have been paid to the Participants. An Employer shall deliver to the Trustee any matching contributions for a payroll period concurrently with the delivery of the pre-tax contributions or after-tax contributions to which such matching contributions relate. An Employer shall deliver to the Trustee any profit sharing contribution for a Plan Year no later than the date prescribed by the Code, including any authorized extensions thereof, for filing such Employer's federal income tax return for the Fiscal Year which ends with such Plan Year. Section 4.5. Form of Contributions. Pre-tax contributions, matching contributions and profit sharing contributions shall be contributed to the Plan in cash; provided, however, that if a Participant elects that pre-tax contributions and matching contributions made on his or her behalf be invested in the Harris Stock Fund, the Company in its discretion may make such contributions in shares of Harris Stock, which may be contributed at a discount from fair market value. The portion of any such contribution that is attributable to a discount from fair market value on shares of Harris Stock shall be disregarded for purposes of determining (i) 23
whether the pre-tax contributions made on behalf of a Participant exceed the Maximum Deferral Percentage under Section 4.1(a) with respect to such Participant; (ii) whether the pre-tax contributions made on behalf of a Participant exceed the annual limit on pre-tax contributions described in Section 6.1(a); and (iii) whether the matching contributions made on behalf of a Participant exceed 6% of the Participant's Compensation for a payroll period, as described in Section 4.2. ARTICLE 5 AFTER-TAX AND ROLLOVER CONTRIBUTIONS Section 5.1. After-Tax Contributions. (a) Initial Election. Subject to the limitations set forth in Article 6, each Participant may elect in accordance with Section 3.2 to make an after-tax contribution for each payroll period by payroll deduction. The percentage of a Participant's Compensation for a payroll period subject to such election shall be a whole percentage not less than 1% and not more than the Maximum Contribution Percentage with respect to such Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the aggregate of a Participant's pre-tax contributions for a payroll period pursuant to Section 4.1(a) and a Participant's after-tax contributions for a payroll period pursuant to this Section 5.1 may not exceed an amount equal to the Maximum Contribution Percentage with respect to such Participant. An Employer shall deliver to the Trustee any after-tax contributions for a payroll period as soon as administratively practicable after the date such contributions otherwise would have been paid to the Participants as cash compensation, but in no event later than the 15th business day of the month following the month during which such contributions otherwise would have been paid to the Participants. (b) Changes in the Rate or Suspension of After-Tax Contributions. A Participant's after-tax contributions shall continue in effect at the rate elected by the Participant 24
pursuant to Section 3.2 until the Participant changes or suspends such election. A Participant may change or suspend such election at such time and in such manner as may be prescribed by the Administrative Committee, provided that only the last change made by a Participant during a payroll period shall be effectuated. Such change or suspension shall be effective as of the first payroll period commencing after the date on which the change or suspension is received, or such later payroll period as may be administratively practicable. A Participant who has suspended after-tax contributions pursuant to this subsection may resume after-tax contributions by making an election at such time and in such manner as may be prescribed by the Administrative Committee. (c) Form of Contributions. After-tax contributions shall be contributed to the Plan in cash; provided, however, that if a Participant elects that after-tax contributions made on his or her behalf be invested in the Harris Stock Fund, the Company in its discretion may make such contributions in shares of Harris Stock, which may be contributed at a discount from fair market value. The portion of any such contribution that is attributable to a discount from fair market value on shares of Harris Stock shall be disregarded for purposes of determining whether the after-tax contributions made on behalf of a Participant exceed the Maximum Contribution Percentage under Section 5.1(a) with respect to such Participant. Section 5.2. Rollover Contributions. (a) Requirements for Rollover Contributions. If a Participant receives an "eligible rollover distribution" (within the meaning of section 402(c)(4) of the Code) from an employees' trust described in section 401(a) of the Code that is exempt from tax under section 501(a) of the Code, from a qualified annuity plan described in section 403(a) of the Code or from an individual retirement account or annuity described in section 408(a) or (b) of the Code (provided that such amount is eligible to be rolled over from 25
such individual retirement account or annuity and no amount in such individual retirement account or annuity is attributable to any source other than an eligible rollover distribution from an employees' trust described in section 401(a) of the Code that is exempt from tax under section 501(a) of the Code or from a qualified annuity plan described in section 403(a) of the Code, and any earnings thereon), then such Participant may contribute to the Plan an amount that does not exceed the amount of such eligible rollover distribution (including the proceeds from the sale of any property received as part of such eligible rollover distribution). Notwithstanding the foregoing, rollover contributions to the Plan may not include any portion of an eligible rollover distribution that consists of after-tax employee contributions. A rollover contribution may be in the form of cash or, with the consent of the Administrative Committee or its delegate, a promissory note evidencing an outstanding loan balance. (b) Delivery of Rollover Contributions. Any rollover contribution made pursuant to this Section shall be delivered by the Participant to the Trustee on or before the 60th day after the day on which the Participant receives the distribution (or on or before such later date as may be prescribed by law) or shall be transferred to the Trustee on behalf of the Participant directly from the trust from which the eligible rollover distribution is made. Any such contribution must be accompanied by any information or documentation in connection therewith requested by the Administrative Committee or the Trustee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrative Committee shall not permit a rollover contribution if in its judgment accepting such contribution would cause the Plan to violate any provision of the Code or Regulations. 26
ARTICLE 6 LIMITATIONS ON CONTRIBUTIONS Section 6.1. Annual Limit on Pre-Tax Contributions. (a) General Rule. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.1, pre-tax contributions made on behalf of a Participant pursuant to such Section for any calendar year shall not exceed the dollar limitation in effect for such calendar year under section 402(g) of the Code, except to the extent permitted under Section 4.1(c) of the Plan and section 414(v) of the Code with respect to "catch-up contributions." (b) Excess Pre-Tax Contributions. (1) Characterization as After-Tax Contributions. Except to the extent set forth in Section 4.1(c) of the Plan and section 414(v) of the Code with respect to "catch-up contributions," if for any calendar year the pre-tax contributions to the Plan or the aggregate of the pre-tax contributions to the Plan plus amounts contributed under other plans or arrangements described in section 401(k), 403(b), 408(k) or 408(p) of the Code for a Participant reach the limit imposed by subsection (a) of this Section for such calendar year, any contributions under the Plan during the calendar year that exceed such limit ("excess deferrals") shall be characterized as after-tax contributions. (2) Distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and except to the extent set forth in Section 4.1(c) of the Plan and section 414(v) of the Code with respect to "catch-up contributions," if any excess deferrals of a Participant are not characterized as after-tax contributions, because of the limitation set forth in Section 5.1 on the amount of after-tax contributions that may be made to the Plan 27
or otherwise, such Participant shall, pursuant to such rules and at such time following such calendar year as determined by the Administrative Committee, be allowed to submit a written request that the excess deferrals, plus any income and minus any loss allocable thereto, be distributed to the Participant. The amount of any income or loss allocable to such excess deferrals shall be determined pursuant to Regulations. Such amount of excess deferrals, as adjusted for income or loss, shall be distributed to the Participant no later than April 15 following the calendar year for which such contributions were made. Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (b)(2), any such excess deferrals shall be treated as "annual additions" for purposes of Section 6.3 for the limitation year in which such contributions were made. The amount of excess deferrals that may be distributed under this subsection (b)(2) with respect to a Participant for a calendar year shall be reduced by any amounts previously distributed pursuant to Section 6.2(d)(1) with respect to such Participant for such year. Section 6.2. Limits on Contributions for Highly Compensated Employees. (a) Actual Deferral Percentage Test Imposed by Section 401(k)(3) of the Code. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.1, if the pre-tax contributions made pursuant to Section 4.1 for a Plan Year fail, or in the judgment of the Administrative Committee are likely to fail, to satisfy both of the tests set forth in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection, the adjustments prescribed in Section 6.2(d)(1) shall be made. Any pre-tax contributions which are "catch-up contributions" described in Section 4.1(c) shall not be considered to be pre-tax contributions for purposes of determining whether the tests set forth in paragraphs (1) and (2) of 28
this subsection are satisfied or for purposes of making any adjustments prescribed by Section 6.2(d)(1). (1) The HCE average deferral percentage for such year does not exceed the product of the NHCE average deferral percentage for such year and 1.25. (2) The HCE average deferral percentage for such year (i) does not exceed the NHCE average deferral percentage for such year by more than two percentage points and (ii) does not exceed the product of the NHCE average deferral percentage for such year and 2.0. (b) Actual Contribution Percentage Test Imposed by Section 401(m) of the Code. Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 4.2 and 5.1, if the aggregate of the matching contributions made pursuant to Section 4.2 and the after-tax contributions made pursuant to Section 5.1 for a Plan Year fail, or in the judgment of the Administrative Committee are likely to fail, to satisfy both of the tests set forth in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection, the adjustments prescribed in Section 6.2(d)(2) shall be made. (1) The HCE average contribution percentage for such year does not exceed the product of the NHCE average contribution percentage for such year and 1.25. (2) The HCE average contribution percentage for such year (i) does not exceed the NHCE average contribution percentage for such year by more than two percentage points and (ii) does not exceed the product of the NHCE average contribution percentage for such year and 2.0. 29
(c) Definitions and Special Rules. For purposes of this Section, the following definitions and special rules shall apply: (1) The "actual deferral percentage test" refers collectively to the tests set forth in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of this Section relating to pre-tax contributions. The actual deferral percentage test shall be satisfied if either of such tests are satisfied. (2) The "HCE average deferral percentage" for a Plan Year is a percentage determined for the group of Eligible Employees who are eligible to make pre-tax contributions for the current Plan Year and who are Highly Compensated Employees for the current Plan Year. Such percentage shall be equal to the average of the ratios, calculated separately for each such Eligible Employee to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent, of the pre-tax contributions for the benefit of such Eligible Employee for the current Plan Year (if any) to the total compensation for the current Plan Year paid to such Eligible Employee. (3) The "NHCE average deferral percentage" for a Plan Year is a percentage determined for the group of Eligible Employees who were eligible to make pre-tax contributions for the immediately preceding Plan Year and who were not Highly Compensated Employees for the immediately preceding Plan Year. Such percentage shall be equal to the average of the ratios, calculated separately for each such Eligible Employee to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent, of the pre-tax contributions for the benefit of such Eligible Employee for 30
the immediately preceding Plan Year (if any) to the total compensation for the immediately preceding Plan Year paid to such Eligible Employee. (4) The "actual contribution percentage test" refers collectively to the tests set forth in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b) of this Section relating to matching contributions and after-tax contributions. The actual contribution percentage test shall be satisfied if either of such tests are satisfied. (5) The "HCE average contribution percentage" for a Plan Year is a percentage determined for the group of Eligible Employees who are eligible to have matching contributions, after-tax contributions, or in the discretion of the Administrative Committee and to the extent permitted under rules prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury or otherwise under the law, pre-tax contributions, made for their benefit for the current Plan Year and who are Highly Compensated Employees for the current Plan Year. Such percentage shall be equal to the average of the ratios, calculated separately for each such Eligible Employee to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent, of the matching contributions, after-tax contributions and, in the discretion of the Administrative Committee and to the extent permitted under rules prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury or otherwise under the law, pre-tax contributions, made for the benefit of such Eligible Employee for the current Plan Year (if any) to the total compensation for the current Plan Year paid to such Eligible Employee. (6) The "NHCE average contribution percentage" for a Plan Year is a percentage determined for the group of Eligible Employees who were eligible to have matching contributions, after-tax contributions, or in the discretion of the 31
Administrative Committee and to the extent permitted under rules prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury or otherwise under the law, pre-tax contributions, made for their benefit for the immediately preceding Plan Year and who were not Highly Compensated Employees for the immediately preceding Plan Year. Such percentage shall be equal to the average of the ratios, calculated separately for each such Eligible Employee to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent, of the matching contributions, after-tax contributions and, in the discretion of the Administrative Committee and to the extent permitted under rules prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury or otherwise under the law, pre-tax contributions, made for the benefit of such Eligible Employee for the immediately preceding Plan Year (if any) to the total compensation for the immediately preceding Plan Year paid to such Eligible Employee. (7) The term "compensation" shall have the meaning set forth in section 414(s) of the Code or, in the discretion of the Administrative Committee, any other meaning in accordance with the Code for these purposes. (8) If the Plan and one or more other plans of an Employer to which pre-tax contributions, matching contributions or employee contributions (as such terms are defined for purposes of section 401(m) of the Code), or qualified non-elective contributions (as such term is defined in section 401(m)(4)(C) of the Code), are made are treated as one plan for purposes of section 410(b) of the Code, such plans shall be treated as one plan for purposes of this Section. If a Highly Compensated Employee participates in the Plan and one or more other 32
plans of an Employer to which any such contributions are made, all such contributions shall be aggregated for purposes of this Section. (9) Solely for purposes of this Section 6.2, if shares of Harris Stock are contributed to the Plan at a discount from fair market value in connection with a Participant's election to invest his or her pre-tax contribution in the Harris Stock Fund, then the amount of such discount shall be treated as a matching contribution. (d) Adjustments to Comply with Limits. (1) Adjustments to Comply with Actual Deferral Percentage Test. The Administrative Committee shall cause to be made such periodic computations as it shall deem necessary or appropriate to determine whether the actual deferral percentage test will be satisfied during a Plan Year, and, if it appears to the Administrative Committee that such test will not be satisfied, the Administrative Committee shall take such steps as it deems necessary or appropriate to adjust the pre-tax contributions made pursuant to Section 4.1 for all or a portion of the remainder of such Plan Year for the benefit of some or all of the Highly Compensated Employees to the extent necessary in order for the actual deferral percentage test to be satisfied. If, after the end of the Plan Year, the Administrative Committee determines that, notwithstanding any adjustments made pursuant to the preceding sentence, the actual deferral percentage test was not satisfied, the Administrative Committee shall calculate a total amount by which pre-tax contributions must be reduced in order to satisfy such test in the manner prescribed by section 401(k)(8)(B) of the Code (the "excess contributions 33
amount"). The amount of pre-tax contributions to be reduced for each Participant who is a Highly Compensated Employee shall be determined by first reducing the pre-tax contributions of each Participant whose actual dollar amount of pre-tax contributions for such Plan Year is highest until such reduced dollar amount equals the next highest actual dollar amount of pre-tax contributions made for such Plan Year on behalf of any Highly Compensated Employee or until the total reduction equals the excess contributions amount. If further reductions are necessary, then the pre-tax contributions on behalf of each Participant who is a Highly Compensated Employee and whose actual dollar amount of pre-tax contributions for such Plan Year is the highest (determined after the reduction described in the preceding sentence) shall be reduced in accordance with the preceding sentence. Such reductions shall continue to be made to the extent necessary so that the total reduction equals the excess contributions amount. The portion of a Participant's pre-tax contributions to be reduced in accordance with this Section 6.2(d)(1) shall be recharacterized as an after-tax contribution, and the Participant shall be notified of such recharacterization and the tax consequences thereof no later than 2-1/2 months after the end of the Plan Year (or if notification by such date is administratively impracticable, no later than the last day of the subsequent Plan Year). The amount of a Participant's pre-tax contributions to be reduced in accordance with this Section shall be reduced by any excess deferrals previously distributed to such Participant pursuant to Section 6.1 in order to comply with the limitations of section 402(g) of the Code. The amount of any 34
income or loss allocable to any such reductions shall be determined pursuant to the applicable Regulations promulgated by the U.S. Treasury Department. (2) Adjustments to Comply with Actual Contribution Percentage Test. The Administrative Committee shall cause to be made such periodic computations as it shall deem necessary or appropriate to determine whether the average contribution percentage test will be satisfied during a Plan Year, and, if it appears to the Administrative Committee that such test will not be satisfied, the Administrative Committee shall take such steps as it deems necessary or appropriate to adjust the matching contributions and the after-tax contributions made pursuant to Section 4.2 and 5.1, respectively, for all or a portion of the remainder of such Plan Year on behalf of some or all of the Highly Compensated Employees to the extent necessary in order for the average contribution percentage test to be satisfied. If, after the end of the Plan Year, the Administrative Committee determines that, notwithstanding any adjustments made pursuant to the preceding sentence, the average contribution percentage test was not satisfied, the Administrative Committee shall, in its discretion, (1) allocate a qualified nonelective contribution pursuant to Section 6.2(e) or (2) reduce the matching contributions and after-tax contributions made on behalf of each Participant who is a Highly Compensated Employee and whose actual dollar amount of matching contributions and after-tax contributions for such Plan Year is the highest in the same manner described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph to the extent necessary to comply with the average contribution percentage test. The reduction described in the preceding sentence shall be made first with respect 35
to a Participant's after-tax contributions in excess of six percent of Compensation, second with respect to any remaining after-tax contributions and any matching contributions attributable thereto, and third with respect to any other matching contributions. With respect to contributions to be so reduced, no later than 2-1/2 months after the end of the Plan Year (or if correction by such date is administratively impracticable, no later than the last day of the subsequent Plan Year), the Administrative Committee shall cause to be distributed to each such Participant the amount of such reductions made with respect to vested matching contributions to which such Participant would be entitled under the Plan if such Participant had terminated service on the last day of the Plan Year for which such contributions are made (or on the date of the Participant's actual termination of employment, if earlier) and with respect to after-tax contributions (plus any income and minus any loss allocable thereto), and any remaining amount of such reductions (plus any income and minus any loss allocable thereto) shall be forfeited. Any amounts forfeited pursuant to this paragraph shall be treated in the same manner as forfeitures described in Section 9.2(b). The amount of any such income or loss allocable to any such reduction to be so distributed or forfeited shall be determined pursuant to applicable Regulations promulgated by the U.S. Treasury Department. (e) Qualified Nonelective Contributions. Subject to the limitations set forth in Sections 6.3 and 6.4, and to the extent permitted by Regulations or other pronouncements of the Internal Revenue Service, for purposes of satisfying the actual contribution percentage test set forth in Section 6.2(b), the Employers may contribute for a Plan Year such amount, if any, as 36
may be designated as a "qualified nonelective contribution" within the meaning of section 401(m)(4)(C) of the Code. Any qualified nonelective contribution to the Plan shall be allocated to the Accounts of those Participants who are not Highly Compensated Employees for the Plan Year with respect to which such qualified nonelective contribution is made and who are actively employed by the contributing Employer on the date such contribution is made, beginning with the Participant with the lowest Compensation for such Plan Year and allocating the maximum amount permissible under Section 6.3 before allocating any portion of such qualified nonelective contribution to the Participant with the next lowest Compensation for the Plan Year. Such allocation shall continue until the Plan satisfies the requirements in Section 6.2(b) or until the amount of such qualified nonelective contribution has been completely allocated. Any such qualified nonelective contributions and earnings and losses thereon shall be accounted for separately by the Trustee and shall be distributable in accordance with the provisions of Article 9. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, the portion of a Participant's account derived from qualified nonelective contributions at all times shall be nonforfeitable. Section 6.3. Maximum Annual Additions under Section 415 of the Code. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, and except to the extent permitted under Section 4.1(c) of the Plan and section 414(v) of the Code with respect to "catch-up contributions," the amounts allocated to the Account of each Participant for any limitation year shall be limited so that the aggregate annual additions for such year to the Participant's Account and to the Participant's accounts in all other defined contribution plans maintained by an employer shall not exceed the lesser of: (a) $40,000 (as adjusted pursuant to section 415(d) of the Code); and 37
(b) 100% of the Participant's compensation for such limitation year (or such other percentage of compensation set forth in section 415(c) of the Code). If the annual additions to a Participant's Account exceed the limitations set forth above for any limitation year (i) as a result of a reasonable error in estimating a Participant's annual compensation, (ii) as a result of a reasonable error in determining the amount of pre-tax contributions that may be made by a Participant under section 415 of the Code or (iii) under other limited facts and circumstances as determined by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, the amounts to be allocated to such Participant's Account for such year shall be reduced to the extent of the excess in the following order: (1) Pre-tax contributions in excess of 6% of the Participant's Compensation; (2) Remaining pre-tax contributions and any matching contributions attributable thereto on a pro rata basis; (3) Profit sharing contributions; (4) After-tax contributions in excess of 6% of the Participant's Compensation; and (5) Remaining after-tax contributions and any matching contributions attributable thereto on a pro rata basis. Any pre-tax contributions or after-tax contributions so reduced, plus earnings thereon, shall be distributed to the Participant. Any matching contributions or profit sharing contributions so reduced, plus earnings thereon, shall be held in a segregated suspense account and shall be treated in the next limitation year as matching contributions or profit sharing contributions, as the case may be, thereby reducing amounts actually contributed by the Employers for such year. 38
Upon termination of the Plan, any balance in such suspense account shall be returned to each Employer in the amount determined by the Administrative Committee, but only if the allocation upon Plan termination of such amount to Participants would cause all Participants to receive annual additions in excess of the limitations of section 415 of the Code. The "annual additions" for a Plan Year to a Participant's Account and to the Participant's accounts in any other defined contribution plan is the sum for such limitation year of: (a) the amount of employer contributions (including pre-tax contributions) allocated to the Participant's account, excluding, however, any pre-tax contributions that are "catch-up contributions" made pursuant to Section 4.1(c) of the Plan and section 414(v) of the Code, (b) the amount of forfeitures allocated to the Participant's account, (c) the amount allocated to any individual medical benefit account (as defined in section 415(l) of the Code) maintained on behalf of the Participant, and (d) the amount of contributions by the Participant to any such plan, but excluding any rollover contribution made thereto. For purposes of this Section, the "limitation year" shall be the Plan Year, the term "compensation" shall have the meaning set forth in U.S. Treasury Regulation section 1.415-2(d)(10), the term "defined contribution plan" shall have the meaning set forth in section 415(k)(1) of the Code, and a Participant's employer shall include entities that are members of the same controlled group (within the meaning of section 414(b) of the Code as modified by section 415(h) of the Code) or affiliated service group (within the meaning of section 414(m) of the Code) as the Participant's employer or under common control (within the meaning of section 39
414(c) of the Code as modified by section 415(h) of the Code) with the Participant's employer or such entities. Section 6.4. Other Limitations on Employer Contributions. The contributions of the Employers for a Plan Year shall not exceed the maximum amount for which a deduction is allowable to such Employers for federal income tax purposes for the fiscal year of such Employers that ends with such Plan Year. Any contribution made by an Employer by reason of a good faith mistake of fact, or the portion of any contribution made by an Employer that exceeds the maximum amount for which a deduction is allowable to such Employer for federal income tax purposes by reason of a good faith mistake in determining the maximum allowable deduction, shall upon the request of such Employer be returned by the Trustee to the Employer. An Employer's request and the return of any such contribution must be made within one year after such contribution was mistakenly made or after the deduction of such excess portion of such contribution was disallowed, as the case may be. The amount to be returned to an Employer pursuant to this paragraph shall be the excess of (i) the amount contributed over (ii) the amount that would have been contributed had there not been a mistake of fact or a mistake in determining the maximum allowable deduction. Earnings attributable to the mistaken contribution shall not be returned to the Employer, but losses attributable thereto shall reduce the amount to be so returned. If the return to the Employer of the amount attributable to the mistaken contribution would cause the balance of any Participant's Account as of the date such amount is to be returned (determined as if such date coincided with the close of a Plan Year) to be reduced to less than what would have been the balance of such Account as of such date had the mistaken amount not been contributed, the amount to be returned to the Employer shall be limited so as to avoid such reduction. 40
ARTICLE 7 TRUST AND INVESTMENT FUNDS Section 7.1. Trust. A Trust shall be created by the execution of a trust agreement between the Company (acting on behalf of the Employers) and the Trustee. All contributions under the Plan shall be paid to the Trustee. The Trustee shall hold all monies and other property received by it and invest and reinvest the same, together with the income therefrom, on behalf of the Participants collectively in accordance with the provisions of the trust agreement. The Trustee shall make distributions from the Trust Fund at such time or times to such person or persons and in such amounts as the Administrative Committee directs in accordance with the Plan. Section 7.2. Investments. (a) In General. The Investment Committee shall establish an investment policy for the Plan. The Investment Committee shall cause the Trustee to establish and maintain two or more separate investment funds exclusively for the collective investment and reinvestment as directed by Participants of amounts credited to their Accounts. Additional investment funds may be established as determined by the Investment Committee from time to time in its sole discretion. The Investment Committee, in its sole discretion, may appoint investment managers to provide services in connection with the investment funds established under the Plan. (b) Harris Stock Fund. In addition to the investment funds established pursuant to Section 7.2(a), the Investment Committee may cause the Trustee to establish, operate and maintain a Harris Stock Fund. The assets of the Harris Stock Fund shall be invested primarily in shares of Harris Stock. The assets of the Harris Stock Fund also may be invested in short-term liquid investments. Each Participant's interest in the Harris Stock Fund shall be 41
represented by units of participation, and each such unit shall represent a proportionate interest in all the assets of such fund. ARTICLE 8 PARTICIPANT ACCOUNTS AND INVESTMENT ELECTIONS Section 8.1. Participant Accounts. The Administrative Committee shall establish and maintain, or cause the Trustee or such other agent as the Administrative Committee may select, to establish and maintain a separate Account for each Participant. Such Account shall be solely for accounting purposes, and no segregation of assets of the Trust Fund among the separate Accounts shall be required. Each Account shall consist of the following subaccounts: (a) if pre-tax contributions have been made for the benefit of a Participant pursuant to Section 4.1, a Pre-Tax Account to which shall be credited such amounts and subsequent earnings and losses thereon; (b) if matching contributions have been made for the benefit of a Participant pursuant to Section 4.2, a Matching Account to which shall be credited such amounts and subsequent earnings and losses thereon; (c) if profit sharing contributions have been made for the benefit of a Participant pursuant to Section 4.3, a Profit Sharing Account to which shall be credited such amounts and subsequent earnings and losses thereon; (d) if after-tax contributions have been made by a Participant pursuant to Section 5.1, an After-Tax Account to which shall be credited such amounts and subsequent earnings and losses thereon; 42
(e) if a rollover contribution has been made by a Participant pursuant to Section 5.2, a Rollover Account to which shall be credited such amount and subsequent earnings and losses thereon; and (f) if applicable, a Savings Account to which shall be credited a Participant's savings contributions under the Plan as in effect prior to July 1, 1983, and subsequent earnings and losses thereon. The Administrative Committee shall establish and maintain, or cause the Trustee or such other agent as the Administrative Committee may select, to establish and maintain investment subaccounts with respect to each investment fund described in Section 7.2 to which amounts contributed under the Plan shall be credited according to each Participant's investment elections pursuant to Section 8.2. All such investment subaccounts shall be solely for accounting purposes, and there shall be no segregation of assets within the investment funds among the separate investment subaccounts. Section 8.2. Investment Elections. (a) Initial Election. Each Participant shall make, in the manner prescribed by the Administrative Committee, an investment election that shall apply to the investment of contributions made for a Participant's benefit and any earnings on such contributions, subject to such limitations set forth herein or imposed by the Administrative Committee from time to time. Such election shall specify that such contributions be invested either (i) wholly in one of the funds maintained by the Trustee pursuant to Section 7.2, or (ii) divided among two or more of such funds in increments of 1% (or such larger percentage established by the Administrative Committee from time to time). During any period in which no direction as to the investment of a Participant's Account is on file with the 43
Administrative Committee, contributions made for a Participant's benefit shall be invested in the Balanced Fund. (b) Change of Election. A Participant may change his or her investment election as of any Valuation Date, subject to such limitations as the Administrative Committee from time to time may impose (including restrictions on investment election changes that apply solely to a particular investment fund). A Participant's investment election change shall be limited to the investment funds then maintained by the Trustee pursuant to Section 7.2. A change in investment election made pursuant to this Section shall apply to a Participant's existing Account or contributions made for the benefit of the Participant after such change, or both. Any such change shall specify that such Account or contributions be invested either (i) wholly in one of the funds maintained by the Trustee pursuant to Section 7.2 or (ii) divided among two or more of such funds in increments of 1% (or such larger percentage established by the Administrative Committee from time to time) or, solely with respect to a Participant's existing Account, in fixed dollar amounts. A Participant's change of investment election must be made in the manner prescribed by the Administrative Committee. The Administrative Committee shall prescribe rules regarding the time by which such an election must be made in order to be effective for a particular Valuation Date. (c) Special Rules Concerning the Harris Stock Fund. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, the following rules shall apply to investments in the Harris Stock Fund: (1) Availability. Only pre-tax contributions, after-tax contributions and matching contributions may be invested in the Harris Stock Fund. If the aggregate of a Participant's pre-tax contribution and after-tax contribution for any 44
payroll period is equal to or greater than 5% of the Participant's Compensation for such payroll period, the aggregate of the pre-tax contribution and after-tax contribution invested in the Harris Stock Fund for any payroll period shall not exceed 1% (or such larger percentage established by an appropriate committee of the Board from time to time) of the Participant's Compensation for the payroll period. If the aggregate of a Participant's pre-tax contribution and after-tax contribution for any payroll period is less than 5% of the Participant's Compensation in any payroll period, the aggregate of his or her pre-tax contributions and after-tax contributions invested in the Harris Stock Fund for the payroll period shall not exceed 20% of the Participant's aggregate pre-tax contribution and after-tax contribution for the payroll period. The portion of any pre-tax contribution or after-tax contribution that is attributable to a discount from fair market value on shares of Harris Stock, shall be disregarded for purposes of the two foregoing sentences. To the extent that pre-tax contributions or after-tax contributions are invested in the Harris Stock Fund, the matching contributions attributable thereto also shall be invested in the Harris Stock Fund. (2) Restrictions on Transfers. A Participant may not transfer amounts from other investment funds to the Harris Stock Fund. Any contributions invested in the Harris Stock Fund must remain in the fund for a minimum of two Plan Years following the end of the Plan Year in which the investment is made (the "Holding Period"), provided that amounts invested in the Harris Stock Fund may be distributed before the expiration of the Holding Period if a Participant or Beneficiary is entitled to a distribution under the Plan pursuant to Section 9.3. 45
The Investment Committee, in its sole discretion, may impose additional restrictions or requirements regarding transfers from the Harris Stock Fund. (3) Dividends. A Participant's allocable share of cash or stock dividends (and other cash earnings) credited to the Harris Stock Fund shall be reinvested in the Harris Stock Fund and shall be subject to the same Holding Period as applies to the underlying stock on which the dividends (or other cash earnings) are paid. (4) Contributions. Amounts invested in the Harris Stock Fund normally shall be contributed in cash; provided, however, that the Company, in its discretion, may contribute such amounts in Harris Stock, which may be contributed at a discount from fair market value. The Trustee is authorized to purchase shares of Harris Stock on the open market, and to give effect to any discount from fair market value established from time to time by allocating shares to a Participant's Account in addition to the number of shares that would have been allocated to the Participant's Account if the discount had not been established. Section 8.3. Valuation of Funds and Plan Accounts. The value of an investment fund as of any Valuation Date shall be the market value of all assets (including any uninvested cash) held by the fund on such Valuation Date as determined by the Trustee, reduced by the amount of any accrued liabilities of the fund on such Valuation Date. The Trustee's determination of market value shall be binding and conclusive upon all parties. The value of a Participant's Account as of any Valuation Date shall be the sum of the values of his or her investment subaccounts in each of the accounts listed in Section 8.1. 46
Section 8.4. Valuation of Units within the Harris Stock Fund. As soon as practicable after the close of business on each Valuation Date, the Trustee shall determine the value of the Harris Stock Fund on such Valuation Date in the manner prescribed in Section 8.3, and the value so determined shall be divided by the total number of Harris Stock Fund participating units allocated to the investment subaccounts of Participants. The resulting quotient shall be the value of a participating unit in the Harris Stock Fund as of such Valuation Date and shall constitute the "price" of a participating unit as of such Valuation Date. Participating units shall be credited, at the price so determined, to the investment subaccounts of Participants with respect to moneys contributed or transferred to such investment subaccounts on their behalf on such Valuation Date. The price of such participating units shall be debited to the investment subaccounts of Participants with respect to moneys divested from such investment subaccounts on their behalf on such Valuation Date. The value of all participating units credited to Participants' investment subaccounts shall be redetermined in a similar manner as of each Valuation Date. Section 8.5. Allocation of Contributions Other than Profit Sharing Contributions. Any pre-tax contribution, matching contribution, after-tax contribution or rollover contribution shall be allocated to the Pre-Tax Account, Matching Account, After-Tax Account or Rollover Account, as applicable, of the Participant for whom such contribution is made as soon as practicable after the Valuation Date coinciding with or next following the date on which such contribution is delivered to the Trustee and shall be credited to such Participant's Account as of such Valuation Date. Section 8.6. Allocation of Profit Sharing Contributions. 47
(a) Amount. Profit sharing contributions for a Plan Year shall be allocated among the Eligible Profit Sharing Participants in accordance with the formulas specified in Section 4.3. (b) Timing of Allocation. A profit sharing contribution made by the Employers or the Company pursuant to Section 4.3 for a Plan Year shall be allocated to the Profit Sharing Accounts of Eligible Profit Sharing Participants as of the last day of such Plan Year; provided, however, that such contributions shall be credited to such Participant's Profit Sharing Accounts as of the Valuation Date coinciding with or next following the date on which the profit sharing contribution is delivered to the Trustee. (c) Limitation on Amount. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, the amount allocated to an Eligible Profit Sharing Participant with respect to Excess Compensation shall not exceed the "base contribution percentage" by more than the lesser of (i) the base contribution percentage and (ii) 5.7% (or if greater, the percentage equal to the Old Age portion of the tax under section 3111(a) of the Code, as in effect on the first day of the Plan Year). Any remaining amount shall be allocated based on the ratio of each Eligible Profit Sharing Participant's Compensation for the Plan Year to the Compensation of all Eligible Participants for the Plan Year. The term "base contribution percentage" means the percentage of Compensation of an Eligible Profit Sharing Participant contributed by the Employers or the Company with respect to such Participant's Compensation not in excess of the Participant's Taxable Wage Base. Section 8.7. Correction of Error. If it comes to the attention of the Administrative Committee that an error has been made in any of the allocations prescribed by this Article 8, appropriate adjustment shall be made to the Accounts of all Participants and 48
Beneficiaries that are affected by such error, except that no adjustment need be made with respect to any Participant or Beneficiary whose Account has been distributed in full prior to the discovery of such error. ARTICLE 4 WITHDRAWALS AND DISTRIBUTIONS Section 9.1. Withdrawals Prior to Termination of Employment. (a) Withdrawals from After-Tax Account and Savings Account. As of any Valuation Date, a Participant may withdraw all or any portion of his or her After-Tax Account or Savings Account; provided, however, that (i) only one such withdrawal may be made in any three-month period; (ii) such withdrawal shall be in the form of a lump sum payment; (iii) a Participant may not withdraw any amount from his or her Savings Account until the entire balance of his or her After-Tax Account has been withdrawn; and (iv) a Participant's election under the Plan to make after-tax contributions, if any, shall be suspended, and no after-tax contributions or matching contributions attributable to after-tax contributions shall be allocated to the Participant's Account, for a period of three months after the date of such withdrawal from the Participant's After-Tax Account. At the expiration of such three-month suspension period, a Participant may resume making after-tax contributions in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 5.1. (b) Hardship Withdrawals. Subject to the provisions of this subsection, a Participant who has taken all loans available to the Participant under Article 10, has taken all withdrawals available to the Participant under Sections 9.1(a), (c) and (d) and has incurred a financial hardship may withdraw as of any Valuation Date all or any portion of the combined balance of his or her (i) pre-tax contributions and (ii) vested Profit Sharing Account. The amount of such withdrawal shall not exceed the amount needed to satisfy the financial hardship, 49
including amounts necessary to pay any federal, state or local taxes or any penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the hardship withdrawal. The determination of the existence of a financial hardship and the amount required to be distributed to satisfy such hardship shall be made in a uniform and non-discriminatory manner according to the following rules: (1) A financial hardship shall be deemed to exist if and only if the Participant certifies that the financial need is on account of: (i) expenses for medical care described in section 213(d) of the Code previously incurred by the Participant, the Participant's spouse, or any dependents of the Participant (as defined in section 152 of the Code) or necessary for such persons to obtain medical care described in section 213(d) of the Code; (ii) costs directly related to the purchase of a principal residence for the Participant (excluding mortgage payments); (iii) payment of tuition, room and board and related educational fees for the next 12 months of post-secondary education for the Participant, the Participant's spouse or any dependents of the Participant (as defined in section 152 of the Code); (iv) payments necessary to prevent the eviction of the Participant from the Participant's principal residence or foreclosure of the mortgage on that residence; or 50
(v) the occurrence of any other event determined by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue pursuant to Treasury Regulation section 1.401(k)-1(d)(2)(iv). (2) A distribution shall be treated as necessary to satisfy a financial need if and only if the Participant certifies (and if the Administrative Committee has no reason to believe that such certification is inaccurate) that such hardship cannot be relieved by or through: (i) reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise; (ii) cessation of pre-tax contributions and after-tax contributions under the Plan; (iii) reasonable liquidation of the Participant's assets (including assets of the Participant's spouse and minor children that are reasonably available to the Participant), to the extent such liquidation would not itself cause an immediate and heavy financial need; or (iv) other distributions or nontaxable (at the time of the loan) loans from this Plan or other plans maintained by an Employer or by another employer, or by borrowing from commercial sources on reasonable commercial terms. (3) The Participant shall be required to submit any additional supporting documentation as may be requested by the Administrative Committee. (4) Any hardship withdrawal pursuant to this Section 9.1(b) shall be in the form of a lump sum payment. 51
(5) A Participant may receive a hardship withdrawal pursuant to this Section 9.1(b) no more than once during any six-month period. (6) Amounts distributed to a Participant pursuant to this Section 9.1(b) shall be withdrawn first from the Participant's pre-tax contributions and next from the vested portion of the Participant's Profit Sharing Account and shall not be taken from the next source until the previous source has been depleted. (7) Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, a Participant who receives a hardship withdrawal hereunder on or after July 1, 2003 shall be prohibited from making any pre-tax contributions or after-tax contributions under Section 4.1 or Section 5.1, respectively, and under all other plans of the Employers and Affiliates until the first payroll period commencing coincident with or next following the date which is six months after the date the hardship withdrawal was made (or such earlier date as may be permitted by applicable Regulations). Such a Participant may elect to resume making pre-tax contributions in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 4.1 and resume making after-tax contributions in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 5.1. For purposes of this paragraph, "all other plans of the Employers and Affiliates" shall include stock option plans, stock purchase plans, qualified and nonqualified deferred compensation plans and such other plans as may be designated under Regulations, but shall not include health and welfare plans and the mandatory employee contribution portion of a defined benefit plan. (c) Withdrawals On or After Age 59-1/2. As of any Valuation Date, a Participant who has attained age 59-1/2 may withdraw all or any portion of his or her vested 52
Account. A withdrawal made pursuant to this Section 9.1(c) shall be made at the Participant's election in any form of payment provided under Section 9.3(c). (d) Withdrawals from Rollover Account. As of any Valuation Date, a Participant may withdraw all or any portion of his or her Rollover Account. Any withdrawal pursuant to this Section 9.1(d) shall be in the form of a lump sum payment. (e) Conditions Applicable to All Withdrawals. A Participant's request for a withdrawal pursuant to this Section 9.1 shall be made at such time and in such manner as may be prescribed by the Administrative Committee. The amount available for withdrawal pursuant to this Section 9.1 shall be reduced by the amount of any loan made pursuant to Article 10 that is outstanding at the time of withdrawal, and no withdrawal pursuant to this Section 9.1 shall be permitted to the extent that such withdrawal would cause the aggregate amount of such outstanding loan to exceed the limits described in Section 10.1. No withdrawal shall be permitted under this Section 9.1 of the portion of a Participant's Account, if any, which is invested in the Harris Stock Fund and which has not satisfied the Holding Period described in Section 8.2(c). The amount available for withdrawal under this Section 9.1 is subject to reduction in the sole discretion of the Administrative Committee to take into account the investment experience of the Trust Fund between the date of the withdrawal election and the date of the withdrawal. Section 9.2. Distribution of Account Upon Termination of Employment. (a) Termination of Employment under Circumstances Entitling Participant to Full Distribution of Account. If a Participant's employment with all Employers and Affiliates terminates under any of the following circumstances, then the Participant or his or her designated Beneficiary, as the case may be, shall be entitled to receive the Participant's entire Account: 53
(1) on or after the date the Participant attains age 55; (2) on account of the Participant's death; (3) on account of the Participant's Disability; or (4) after the Participant is credited with at least six Years of Service. (b) Termination of Employment under Circumstances Resulting in Partial Forfeiture of the Participant's Account. If a Participant's employment with all Employers and Affiliates terminates under circumstances other than those set forth in Section 9.2(a), then the Participant shall be entitled to receive (i) the entire balance of the Participant's Pre-Tax Account, After-Tax Account, Rollover Account and Savings Account and (ii) a percentage of the balance of the Participant's Matching Account and Profit Sharing Account, which percentage shall be determined as follows by reference to the Participant's Years of Service as of the date of the Participant's termination of employment: In the event of the sale or disposition of a business or a sale of substantially all of the assets of a trade or business, a Participant affected by such sale may be entitled to the entire balance of the Participant's Account, irrespective of the Participant's Years of Service, if expressly provided in the documents effecting the transaction or otherwise authorized by the Company. Any portion of a Participant's Matching Account and Profit Sharing Account which the Participant is not entitled to receive pursuant to this Section 9.2(b) shall be charged to 54
such accounts and forfeited as of the earlier of (i) the date the Participant receives a distribution of the Participant's vested Account and (ii) the date the Participant incurs a Break in Service of five consecutive years. For purposes of this Section 9.2(b), if a Participant is entitled to receive zero percent (0%) of his or her Matching Account and Profit Sharing Account, the Participant shall be deemed to have received a distribution of such accounts on the first day of the Plan Year following the Participant's termination of employment. If a Participant who receives, or is deemed to have received, a distribution of the Participant's vested Account is reemployed prior to incurring a Break in Service of five consecutive years, then such forfeiture shall be reinstated as prescribed in Section 11.2(b). Amounts forfeited by a Participant pursuant to this Section shall be used (i) first, to restore the Accounts of recently located Participants previously employed by such Participant's Employer (or the recently located Beneficiaries of Participants previously employed by such Participant's Employer) whose Accounts were forfeited as described in Section 9.8, (ii) next, to restore the Accounts of Participants who are reemployed by such Participant's Employer as described in Section 11.2(b), (iii) next, to fund any matching contributions or profit sharing contributions to be allocated to Participants who are reemployed by such Participant's Employer after a period of Qualified Military Service as described in Section 11.5 and (iv) finally, to reduce future contributions to the Plan by such Participant's Employer. Section 9.3. Time and Form of Distribution upon Termination of Employment. (a) In General. A Participant shall be entitled to a distribution of his or her vested Account upon the Participant's termination of employment with all Employers and Affiliates. (b) Time of Distribution. A Participant shall be entitled to a distribution of his or her vested Account as soon as administratively practicable after the date of the Participant's 55
termination of employment, or, subject to Section 9.4, may defer distribution to a later date; provided, however, that: (1) subject to Section 9.4, a Participant's Account shall not be distributed prior to the Participant's 65th birthday unless the Participant has consented in writing to such distribution; (2) if a Participant dies before the commencement of distribution of his or her Account, distributions paid or commencing after the Participant's death shall be completed no later than December 31 of the calendar year which contains the fifth anniversary of the Participant's death, except that (i) if the Participant's Beneficiary is the Participant's spouse, distribution may be deferred until December 31 of the calendar year in which the Participant would have attained age 70-1/2 and (ii) if the Participant's Beneficiary is a person other than the Participant's spouse and distributions commence on or before December 31 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the Participant died, such distributions may be made over a period not longer than the life expectancy of such Beneficiary; (3) if at the time of a Participant's death, distribution of his or her Account has commenced, the remaining portion of the Participant's Account shall be paid at least as rapidly as under the method of distribution being used prior to the Participant's death, as determined pursuant to Regulation section 1.401(a)(9)-2; (4) unless a Participant files a written election to defer distribution, distribution shall be made to a Participant by payment in a single lump sum 56
payment no later than 60 days after the end of the Plan Year which contains the latest of (i) the date of the Participant's termination of employment, (ii) the tenth anniversary of the date the Participant commenced participation in the Plan and (iii) the Participant's 65th birthday; provided, however, that if the Participant does not elect a distribution prior to the latest to occur of the events listed above, the Participant shall be deemed to have elected to defer such distribution until a date no later than April 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Participant attains age 70-1/2; and (5) with respect to a Participant who continues in employment after attaining age 70-1/2, distribution of the Participant's Account shall commence no later than the Participant's required beginning date. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "required beginning date" shall mean (A) with respect to a Participant who is a 5%-owner (within the meaning of section 416(i) of the Code), April 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Participant attains age 70-1/2 and (B) with respect to any other Participant, April 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Participant terminates employment with all Employers and Affiliates. Distributions made under this paragraph shall be made in accordance with Section 9.3(d). (c) Form of Distribution. Any distribution to which a Participant (or in the event of the Participant's death, his or her Beneficiary) becomes entitled upon the Participant's termination of employment shall be distributed by the Trustee by whichever of the following methods the Participant (or Beneficiary) elects: 57
(1) an amount not greater than the vested balance of the Participant's Account, provided, however, that only one such payment may be made in any single month; (2) substantially equal periodic installment payments, payable not less frequently than annually and not more frequently than monthly, over a period to be elected by the Participant (or Beneficiary); provided, however, that such period shall not exceed the life expectancy of the Participant or, to the extent permitted by Regulation section 1.401(a)(9)-5, the joint and last survivor expectancy of the Participant and the Participant's Beneficiary; or (3) a combination of (1) and (2). A Participant (or Beneficiary) may change his or her election with respect to the form of distribution at any time before or after distribution of benefits commences. (d) Required Minimum Distributions. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, all distributions under the Plan will be made in accordance with the minimum distribution requirements of section 401(a)(9) of the Code and the final Regulations promulgated thereunder. Section 9.4. Payment of Small Account Balances. Notwithstanding any provision of Section 9.3 to the contrary and subject to Section 9.6, if a Participant's vested Account to be distributed upon the Participant's termination of employment does not exceed $5,000 (or such other amount prescribed by section 411(a)(11) of the Code), then such amount shall be distributed as soon as practicable after the Participant's termination of employment in the form of a lump sum payment to the Participant or his or her Beneficiary, as the case may be. In the event of a mandatory distribution greater than $1,000 under this Section 9.4, if the 58
Participant does not elect to have such distribution paid as a direct rollover pursuant to Section 9.6 or to receive the distribution directly, then the distribution will be paid in a direct rollover to an individual retirement plan designated by the Administrative Committee. Section 9.5. Medium and Order of Withdrawal or Distribution. (a) Medium of Withdrawal or Distribution. All withdrawals and distributions under the Plan shall be made in cash; provided, however, that other than with respect to withdrawals pursuant to Sections 9.1(a) and (b), a Participant or Beneficiary may elect, in accordance with procedures established by the Administrative Committee, to receive the portion of his or her Account, if any, that is invested in the Harris Stock Fund in shares of Harris Stock (with fractional shares and de minimis amounts, as determined by the Administrative Committee, distributed in cash). If a Participant or Beneficiary has elected to receive a withdrawal or distribution of any portion of his or her Account that is invested in the Harris Stock Fund in shares of Harris Stock, then such distribution shall, in the discretion of the Administrative Committee, either be made in certificated form or credited to an account established for the Participant under a plan maintained by an Affiliate. (b) Order of Withdrawal or Distribution. To the extent not otherwise set forth in Section 9.1, any withdrawal pursuant to Section 9.1 and any distribution pursuant to Section 9.3 shall be charged against a Participant's contribution and investment subaccounts in the order determined by the Administrative Committee; provided, however, that in order to maximize the tax benefits associated with participation in the Plan, any such withdrawal or distribution first shall be charged against the Participant's After-Tax Account. In the case of a withdrawal made pursuant to Section 9.1, reduction of amounts invested in the Harris Stock Fund shall be subject to the satisfaction of the Holding Period prescribed in Section 8.2(c). 59
Section 9.6. Direct Rollover Option. In the case of a distribution that is an "eligible rollover distribution" within the meaning of section 402(c)(4) of the Code, a Participant, a Beneficiary who is a surviving spouse of a Participant, or a spouse or former spouse who is an alternate payee under a qualified domestic relations order, as defined in section 414(p) of the Code, may elect that all or any portion of such distribution to which he or she is entitled shall be directly transferred from the Plan to (i) an individual retirement account or annuity described in section 408(a) or (b) of the Code, or (ii) if the terms of which permit the acceptance of eligible rollover distributions, to another retirement plan qualified under section 401(a) of the Code, to a qualified annuity plan described in section 403(a) of the Code, to an annuity contract described in section 403(b) of the Code or to an eligible plan under section 457(b) of the Code which is maintained by a state, political subdivision of a state, or any agency or instrumentality of a state or political subdivision of a state and which agrees to account separately for amounts transferred into such plan from this Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any portion of an eligible rollover distribution that consists of after-tax contributions which are not includible in gross income may be transferred only to an individual retirement account or annuity described in section 408(a) or (b) of the Code or to a qualified defined contribution plan described in section 401(a) or 403(a) of the Code that agrees to account separately for amounts so transferred. Section 9.7. Designation of Beneficiary. (a) In General. Each Participant shall have the right to designate a Beneficiary or Beneficiaries (who may be designated contingently or successively and that may be an entity other than a natural person) to receive any distribution to be made under this Article upon the death of such Participant or, in the case of a Participant who dies after his or her termination of employment but prior to the distribution of the entire 60
amount to which he or she is entitled under the Plan, any undistributed balance to which such Participant would have been entitled. No such designation of a Beneficiary other than a Participant's spouse shall be effective if the Participant was married through the one-year period ending on the date of his or her death unless such designation was consented to in writing (or by such other method permitted by the Internal Revenue Service) at the time of such designation by the person who was the Participant's spouse during such period, acknowledging the effect of such consent and witnessed by a notary public or, prior to October 1, 1993, a Plan representative, or it is established to the satisfaction of the Administrative Committee that such consent could not be obtained because the Participant's spouse could not be located or because of the existence of other circumstances as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe as excusing the requirement of such consent. Subject to the immediately preceding sentence, a Participant may from time to time, without the consent of any Beneficiary, change or cancel any such designation. Such designation and each change thereof shall be made in the manner prescribed by the Administrative Committee and shall be filed with the Administrative Committee. If (i) no Beneficiary has been named by a deceased Participant or (ii) a Beneficiary designation is not effective pursuant to the second sentence of this section, any undistributed Account of the deceased Participant shall be distributed by the Trustee (a) to the surviving spouse of such deceased Participant, if any, (b) if there is no surviving spouse, to the then living descendants, if any, of the deceased Participant, per stirpes, or (c) if there is no surviving spouse and there are no living descendants, to the executor or administrator of the estate of such deceased Participant. Unless otherwise set forth in the applicable beneficiary designation form or the instructions thereto, if a Beneficiary designated by a Participant predeceases the Participant, any 61
undistributed Account of the deceased Participant shall be distributed by the Trustee in the order prescribed by the immediately preceding sentence. (b) Successor Beneficiaries. A Beneficiary who has been designated in accordance with Section 9.7(a) may name a successor beneficiary or beneficiaries in the manner prescribed by the Administrative Committee. Unless otherwise set forth in the applicable form pursuant to which a Participant designates a Beneficiary or the instructions thereto, if such Beneficiary dies after the Participant and before distribution of the entire amount of the Participant's benefit under the Plan in which the Beneficiary has an interest, then any remaining amount shall be distributed, as soon as practicable after the death of such Beneficiary, in the form of a lump sum payment to the successor beneficiary or beneficiaries or, if there is no such successor beneficiary, to the executor or administrator of the estate of such deceased Beneficiary. Section 9.8. Missing Persons. If following the date on which pursuant to Section 9.3(b) or 9.4 a Participant's Account may be distributed without the Participant's consent, the Administrative Committee in the exercise of reasonable diligence has been unable to locate the person or persons entitled to the Participant's Account, then the Participant's Account shall be forfeited; provided, however, that to the extent required by law the Plan shall reinstate and pay to such person or persons the amount so forfeited upon a claim for such amount made by such person or persons. The amount to be so reinstated shall be obtained from the total amount that shall have been forfeited pursuant to this Section and Section 9.2(b) during the Plan Year that the claim for such forfeited benefit is made, and shall not include any earnings or losses from the date of the forfeiture under this Section. If the amount to be reinstated exceeds the amount of such forfeitures, the Employer in respect of whose Eligible Employee the claim for forfeited benefit is made shall make a contribution in an amount equal to such excess. To the 62
extent the forfeitures under this Section exceed any claims for forfeited benefits made pursuant to this Section, such excess shall be utilized (i) first, to restore the Accounts as described in Section 11.2(b) of Participants who are reemployed by the Employer in respect of whose Eligible Employee experienced the forfeiture hereunder, (ii) next, to fund any matching contributions or profit sharing contributions to be allocated to Participants who are reemployed by such Employer after a period of Qualified Military Service as described in Section 11.5 and (iii) finally, to reduce future contributions to the Plan by such Employer. Section 9.9. Distributions to Minor and Disabled Distributees. Any distribution that is payable to a distributee who is a minor or to a distributee who has been legally determined to be unable to manage his or her affairs by reason of illness or mental incompetency may be made to, or for the benefit of, any such distributee at such time consistent with the provisions of this Plan and in such of the following ways as the legal representative of such distributee shall direct: (a) directly to any such minor distributee if, in the opinion of such legal representative, he or she is able to manage his or her affairs, (b) to such legal representative, (c) to a custodian under a Uniform Gifts to Minors Act for any such minor distributee, or (d) as otherwise directed by such legal representative. Neither the Administrative Committee nor the Trustee shall be required to oversee the application by any third party other than the legal representative of a distributee of any distribution made to or for the benefit of such distributee pursuant to this Section. Section 9.10. Payment of Group Insurance Premiums. The Administrative Committee may, in its sole discretion, permit a Participant who (i) is eligible to be included in any contributory group insurance program maintained or sponsored by an Employer, (ii) elects to be covered under such contributory group insurance program and (iii) is receiving benefits under 63
the Plan in monthly installments to direct that a specified portion of the installment payments be withheld and paid by the Trustee on the Participant's behalf to the Employer as the Participant's contribution under such contributory group insurance program. Such direction by a Participant, if permitted by the Administrative Committee, shall be made at the time and in the manner prescribed by the Administrative Committee. Any such direction may be revoked by a Participant upon at least 15 days' prior written notice to the Administrative Committee. Any withholding and payment of insurance costs on behalf of a Participant shall be made in accordance with Treasury Regulation section 1.401(a)-13. ARTICLE 10 LOANS Section 10.1. Making of Loans. Subject to the provisions of this Article 10, the Administrative Committee shall establish a loan program whereby any Participant who is an Employee may request, by such method prescribed by the Administrative Committee, to borrow funds from the Participant's Pre-Tax Account, After-Tax Account and Rollover Account, and which loan program hereby is incorporated into this Plan by reference. The principal balance of such loan, when aggregated with the outstanding balances of all other loans of the Participant from plans maintained by the Employers and Affiliates, shall not exceed the least of: (a) $50,000, reduced by the excess, if any, of (x) the highest outstanding loan balance of the Participant under all plans maintained by the Employers and Affiliates during the period beginning one year and one day prior to the date on which such loan is made and ending on the day prior to the date on which such loan is made, over (y) the outstanding loan balance from all such plans on the date on which such loan is made; 64
(b) fifty percent (50%) of the vested portion of the Participant's Account as of the Valuation Date coinciding with or immediately preceding the date on which the loan is made; and (c) the aggregate value of the Participant's Pre-Tax Account, After-Tax Account and Rollover Account as of the Valuation Date coinciding with or immediately preceding the date on which the loan is made. Section 10.2. Restrictions. An application for a loan shall be made at the time and in the manner prescribed by the Administrative Committee. The action of the Administrative Committee or its delegate in approving or disapproving a request for a loan shall be final. Any loan under the Plan shall be subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth in the loan program established by the Administrative Committee. Section 10.3. Default. If any loan or portion of a loan made to a Participant under the Plan, together with the accrued interest thereon, is in default, the Trustee, upon direction from the Administrative Committee, shall take appropriate steps to collect the outstanding balance of the loan and to foreclose on the security; provided, however, that the Trustee shall not levy against any portion of the Participant's Account until such time as a distribution from such Account otherwise could be made under the Plan. Default shall occur (i) if the Participant fails to make any scheduled loan payment when due or within 90 days thereafter (or within such other grace period as permitted under applicable law and by the Administrative Committee) or (ii) upon the occurrence of any other event that is considered a default event under the loan program established by the Administrative Committee. On the date a Participant is entitled to receive a distribution of his or her Account pursuant to Article 9, any defaulted loan or portion thereof, together with the accrued interest thereon, shall be charged to 65
the Participant's Account after all other adjustments required under the Plan, but before any distribution pursuant to Article 9. Section 10.4. Applicability. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of this Article 10, any Participant or Beneficiary who is a "party in interest" as defined in section 3(14) of ERISA may apply for a loan from the Plan, regardless of such Participant's or Beneficiary's employment status. As a condition of receiving a loan from the Plan, such a Participant or Beneficiary who is not an Employee shall consent to have such loan repaid in substantially equal installments at the times and in the manner determined by the Administrative Committee, but not less frequently than quarterly. ARTICLE 11 SPECIAL PARTICIPATION AND DISTRIBUTION RULES Section 11.1. Change of Employment Status. If an Employee who is not an Eligible Employee becomes an Eligible Employee, then the Employee shall become a Participant (i) as of the date such Employee becomes an Eligible Employee, if such Employee has satisfied the service requirement set forth in Section 3.1, or (ii) as of the date such Employee satisfies the service requirement set forth in Section 3.1. Section 11.2. Reemployment of a Terminated Participant. (a) Participation. If a terminated Participant is reemployed as an Eligible Employee, then the terminated Participant again shall become a Participant as of the date of the terminated Participant's reemployment. If a terminated Participant is receiving installment payments pursuant to Section 9.3(c), such payments shall be suspended upon such terminated Participant's reemployment unless such Participant has attained age 59-1/2 on or before the date of such reemployment. 66
(b) Restoration of Forfeitures. If a terminated Participant is reemployed prior to incurring a Break in Service of five consecutive years, and, at or after the Participant's termination of employment, any portion of the Participant's Account was forfeited pursuant to Section 9.2(b), then an amount equal to the portion of the Participant's Account that was forfeited shall be credited to the Participant's Account as soon as administratively practicable after the Participant is reemployed. Any amount to be restored pursuant to this subsection shall be obtained from the total amounts that have been forfeited pursuant to Sections 9.2(b) and 9.8 during the Plan Year in which such Participant is reemployed from the Accounts of Participants employed by the same Employer as the reemployed Participant. If the aggregate amount to be so restored to the Accounts of Participants who are Employees of a particular Employer exceeds the amount of such forfeitures, such Employer shall make a contribution in an amount equal to such excess. Any such contribution shall be made without regard to whether or not the limitations set forth in Article 6 will be exceeded by such contribution. Section 11.3. Employment by Affiliates. If an individual is employed by an Affiliate that is not an Employer, then any period of such employment shall be taken into account under the Plan solely for the purposes of (i) measuring such individual's Service and (ii) determining when such individual has terminated his or her employment for purposes of Article 9, to the same extent it would have been had such period of employment been as an Employee. Section 11.4. Leased Employees. If an individual who performed services as a leased employee (defined as any person (other than an Employee of an Employer) who pursuant to an agreement between an Employer and a leasing organization has performed services for the Employer (or for the Employer and related persons determined in accordance with section 414(n)(6) of the Code) on a substantially full-time basis for a period of at least one year, where 67
such services are performed under the primary direction or control of the Employer) of an Employer or an Affiliate becomes an Employee, or if an Employee becomes such a leased employee, then any period during which such services were so performed shall be taken into account under the Plan solely for the purposes of (i) measuring such individual's Service and (ii) determining when such individual has terminated his or her employment for purposes of Article 9, to the same extent it would have been had such period of service been as an Employee. This Section shall not apply to any period of service during which such a leased employee was covered by a plan described in section 414(n)(5) of the Code. Section 11.5. Reemployment of Veterans. The provisions of this Section shall apply in the case of the reemployment by an Employer of an Eligible Employee, within the period prescribed by USERRA, after the Eligible Employee's completion of a period of Qualified Military Service. The provisions of this Section are intended to provide such Eligible Employee with the rights required by USERRA and section 414(u) of the Code, and shall be interpreted in accordance with such intent. (a) Make-Up of Pre-Tax and After-Tax Contributions. Such Eligible Employee shall be entitled to make contributions under the Plan ("make-up participant contributions"), in addition to any pre-tax and after-tax contributions which the Eligible Employee elects to have made under the Plan pursuant to Sections 4.1 and 5.1. From time to time while employed by an Employer, such Eligible Employee may elect to contribute such make-up participant contributions during the period beginning on the date of such Eligible Employee's reemployment and ending on the earlier of: (1) the end of the period equal to the product of three and such Eligible Employee's period of Qualified Military Service, and 68
(2) the fifth anniversary of the date of such reemployment. Such Eligible Employee shall not be permitted to contribute make-up participant contributions to the Plan in excess of the amount which the Eligible Employee could have elected to have made under the Plan in the form of pre-tax and after-tax contributions if the Eligible Employee had continued in active employment with his or her Employer during such period of Qualified Military Service. The manner in which an Eligible Employee may elect to contribute make-up participant contributions pursuant to this subsection (a) shall be prescribed by the Administrative Committee. (b) Make-Up of Matching Contributions. An Eligible Employee who contributes make-up participant contributions as described in subsection (a) of this Section shall be entitled to an allocation of matching contributions to his or her Account in an amount equal to the amount of matching contributions that would have been allocated to the Account of such Eligible Employee during the period of Qualified Military Service if such make-up participant contributions had been made in the form of pre-tax and after-tax contributions during such period. The amount necessary to make such allocation of matching contributions shall be derived from forfeitures during the Plan Year in which such matching contributions are made, and if such forfeitures are not sufficient for this purpose, then the Eligible Employee's Employer shall make a special contribution to the Plan which shall be utilized solely for purposes of such allocation. (c) Make-Up of Profit Sharing Contributions. Upon the timely reemployment of an Eligible Employee following the completion of a period of Qualified Military Service, such Eligible Employee shall be entitled to an allocation of profit sharing contributions to his or her 69
Account in an amount equal to the difference between (i) the amount of profit sharing contributions that would have been allocated to the Account of such Eligible Employee during the period of Qualified Military Service if the Eligible Employee had continued in active employment with his or her Employer during such period and (ii) the amount of profit sharing contributions that was allocated to the Account of such Eligible Employee during the period of Qualified Military Service pursuant to Section 8.6. The amount necessary to make such allocation of profit sharing contributions shall be derived from forfeitures during the Plan Year in which such profit sharing contributions are made, and if such forfeitures are not sufficient for this purpose, then the Eligible Employee's Employer shall make a special contribution to the Plan which shall be utilized solely for purposes of such allocation. (d) Miscellaneous Rules Regarding Make-Up Contributions. For purposes of determining the amount of contributions to be made under this Section, an Eligible Employee's "Compensation" during any period of Qualified Military Service shall be determined in accordance with section 414(u) of the Code. Any contributions made by an Eligible Employee or an Employer pursuant to this Section on account of a period of Qualified Military Service in a prior Plan Year shall not be subject to the limitations prescribed by Sections 6.1, 6.3 and 6.4 of the Plan (relating to sections 402(g), 415, and 404 of the Code) for the Plan Year in which such contributions are made. The Plan shall not be treated as failing to satisfy the nondiscrimination rules of Section 6.2 of the Plan (relating to sections 401(k)(3) and 401(m) of the Code) for any Plan Year solely on account of any make-up contributions made by an Eligible Employee or an Employer pursuant to this Section. 70
ARTICLE 12 SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS WITH RESPECT TO HARRIS STOCK Section 12.1. Voting Shares of Harris Stock. The Trustee, or the Company upon written notice to the Trustee, shall furnish to each Participant (and Beneficiary) who has Harris Stock credited to his or her individual account under the Harris Stock Fund the date and purpose of each meeting of the shareholders of the Company at which Harris Stock is entitled to be voted. The Trustee, or the Company if it has furnished such information to such Participants (and Beneficiaries) with respect to a particular shareholders' meeting, shall request from each such Participant (or Beneficiary) instructions to be furnished to the Trustee (or to a tabulating agent appointed by the Trustee, which may be the Company's transfer agent) regarding the voting at such meeting of Harris Stock credited to the Participant's (or Beneficiary's) account. If the Participant (or Beneficiary) furnishes such instructions to the Trustee or its agent within the time specified in the notification, then the Trustee shall vote such Harris Stock in accordance with such instructions. All Harris Stock credited to accounts as to which the Trustee or its agent do not receive instructions as specified above and all unallocated Harris Stock held in the Harris Stock Fund shall be voted by the Trustee proportionately in the same manner as it votes Harris Stock as to which the Trustee or its agent have received voting instructions as specified above. Section 12.2. Tender Offers. (a) Rights of Participants. In the event a tender offer is made generally to the shareholders of the Company to transfer all or a portion of their shares of Harris Stock in return for valuable consideration, including, but not limited to, offers regulated by section 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Trustee shall respond to such tender offer in respect of shares of Harris Stock held by the Trustee in the Harris Stock Fund in accordance with instructions obtained from Participants (or Beneficiaries). Each 71
Participant (or Beneficiary) shall be entitled to instruct the Trustee regarding how to respond to any such tender offer with respect to the number of shares of Harris Stock represented by the participating units in the Harris Stock Fund then allocated to his or her Account. Each Participant (or Beneficiary) who does not provide timely instructions to the Trustee shall be presumed to have directed the Trustee not to tender shares of Harris Stock represented by the participating units then allocated to his or her Account. A Participant (or Beneficiary) shall not be limited in the number of instructions to tender or withdraw from tender which he or she can give, but a Participant (or Beneficiary) shall not have the right to give instructions to tender or withdraw from tender after a reasonable time established by the Trustee pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section. For purposes of this Section, the shares of Harris Stock held in the Harris Stock Fund shall be treated as allocated to the accounts of Participants in proportion to their respective participating units in the Harris Stock Fund as of the immediately preceding record date for ownership of Harris Stock for stockholders entitled to tender. The Administrative Committee may direct the Trustee to make a special valuation of the Harris Stock Fund in connection with such tender offer. Any securities or other property received by the Trustee as a result of having tendered Harris Stock shall be held, and any cash so received shall be invested, in short term investments pending any further action which the Trustee may be required or directed to take pursuant to the Plan. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, during the period of any public offer for Harris Stock, the Trustee shall refrain from making purchases of Harris Stock in connection with the Plan and the Trust. In addition to compensation otherwise payable, the Trustee shall be entitled to reasonable compensation and reimbursement for its reasonable out-of-pocket expenses for any services attributable to the duties and responsibilities described in this Section. 72
(b) Duties of the Administrative Committee. Within a reasonable time after the commencement of a tender offer, the Administrative Committee shall cause the Trustee to provide to each Participant or Beneficiary, as the case may be: (1) the offer to purchase as distributed by the offeror to the shareholders of the Company; (2) a statement of the number of shares of Harris Stock represented by the participating units in the Harris Stock Fund allocated to his or her Account; and (3) directions as to the means by which instructions with respect to the tender offer can be given. The Administrative Committee shall establish, and the Company shall pay for, a means by which instructions with respect to a tender offer expeditiously can be delivered to the Trustee. The Administrative Committee at its election may engage an agent to receive such instructions and transmit them to the Trustee. All such individual instructions shall be confidential and shall not be disclosed to any person, including any Employer. For purposes of allocating the proceeds of any sale or exchange pursuant to a tender offer, the Trustee shall then treat as having been sold or exchanged from each of the Accounts of Participants (and Beneficiaries) who provided timely directions to the Trustee under this Section to tender that number of shares of Harris Stock represented by participating units in the Harris Stock Fund (if any) subject to such directions and the proceeds of such sale or exchange shall be allocated accordingly. Any proceeds from the sale or exchange of shares of Harris Stock in the Harris Stock Fund shall be invested in a commingled fund maintained by the 73
Trustee designated to hold such amounts pending investment instructions from the Participants (and Beneficiaries) or the Administrative Committee, as the case may be. (c) Duties of the Trustee. The Trustee shall follow the instructions of the Participants (and Beneficiaries) with respect to the tender offer as transmitted to the Trustee. The Trustee may establish a reasonable time, taking into account the time restrictions of the tender offer, after which it shall not accept instructions of Participants (or Beneficiaries). ARTICLE 13 ADMINISTRATION Section 13.1. The Administrative Committee. (a) The Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board shall appoint at least two members to the Administrative Committee. The Administrative Committee shall be the "administrator" of the Plan within the meaning of such term as used in ERISA and shall be responsible for the administration of the Plan. The Chief Executive Officer of the Company, or such Board committee, as the case may be, shall have the right at any time, with or without cause, to remove any member of the Administrative Committee. In addition, any member of the Administrative Committee at any time may resign by giving at least fifteen (15) days' advance written notice to the Chief Executive Officer or such Board committee (or such shorter period of advance written notice acceptable to the Chief Executive Officer or such Board committee). An Employee who serves on the Administrative Committee shall be deemed to have resigned from such committee upon the termination of the Employee's employment with the Company and its Affiliates, effective as of the date of the termination of employment. Upon the removal or resignation of any member of the Administrative Committee, or the failure or inability for any reason of any member of the Administrative Committee to act hereunder, the Chief Executive Officer of the 74
Company or such Board committee, as the case may be, shall appoint a successor member of the Administrative Committee if such removal, resignation, failure or inability causes the Administrative Committee to have fewer than two members. Any successor member of the Administrative Committee shall have all the rights, privileges and duties of the predecessor, but shall not be held accountable for the acts of the predecessor. (b) Any member of the Administrative Committee may, but need not, be an employee, director, officer or shareholder of an Employer and such status shall not disqualify him or her from taking any action hereunder or render him or her accountable for any distribution or other material advantage received by such member under the Plan, provided that no member of the Administrative Committee who is a Participant shall take part in any action of the Administrative Committee or any matter involving solely his or her rights under the Plan. (c) Promptly after the appointment of the members of the Administrative Committee and promptly after the appointment of any successor member of the Administrative Committee, the Trustee shall be notified in writing as to the names of the new members. (d) The Administrative Committee shall have the duty and authority to interpret and construe, in its sole discretion, the terms of the Plan in all respects, including, but not limited to, all questions of eligibility, the status and rights of Participants, distributees and other persons under the Plan, and the manner, time and amount of payment of any distribution under the Plan. Each Employer shall, from time to time, upon request of the Administrative Committee, furnish to the Administrative Committee such data and information as the Administrative Committee shall require in the performance of its duties. All determinations and actions of the Administrative Committee shall be conclusive and binding upon all affected parties, except that the Administrative Committee may revoke or modify a determination or 75
action that it determines to have been in error. Benefits will be paid under the Plan only if the Administrative Committee decides in its sole discretion that the applicant is entitled to the benefits. (e) The Administrative Committee shall direct the Trustee to make payments of amounts to be distributed from the Trust under Article 9. (f) The Administrative Committee may act at a meeting by the vote of a majority of a quorum of its members or without a meeting by the unanimous written consent of its members. The Administrative Committee shall keep records of all of its meetings and forward all necessary communications to the Trustee. The Administrative Committee may adopt such rules and procedures as it deems desirable for the conduct of its affairs and the administration of the Plan, provided that any such rules and procedures shall be consistent with the provisions of the Plan and ERISA. (g) The members of the Administrative Committee shall discharge their duties with respect to the Plan (i) solely in the interest of the Participants and Beneficiaries, (ii) for the exclusive purpose of providing benefits to the Participants and Beneficiaries and of defraying reasonable expenses of administering the Plan and (iii) with the care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the circumstances then prevailing that a prudent person acting in a like capacity and familiar with such matters would use in the conduct of an enterprise of a like character and with like aims. The Employers hereby jointly and severally indemnify the members of the Administrative Committee, the members of the Compensation Committee, the members of the Executive Committee and the members of the Investment Committee from the effects and consequences of their acts, omissions and conduct in their official capacity, except to the extent 76
that such effects and consequences result from their own willful or gross misconduct or criminal acts. (h) The members of the Administrative Committee shall not receive any compensation or fee for services as members of the Administrative Committee. The Employers shall reimburse the members of each of the Administrative Committee, Compensation Committee, Executive Committee and Investment Committee for any necessary expenditures incurred in the discharge of their duties hereunder. Section 13.2. Named Fiduciaries. The Investment Committee shall be a "named fiduciary" of the Plan within the meaning of such term as used in ERISA solely with respect to its power to appoint certain fiduciaries under the Plan and its management of the assets of the Plan. The Administrative Committee shall be a "named fiduciary" of the Plan within the meaning of such term as used in ERISA solely with respect to its power to appoint certain fiduciaries under the Plan and the exercise of its administrative duties set forth in the Plan that are fiduciary acts. Each of the Compensation Committee and the Executive Committee shall be a "named fiduciary" of the Plan within the meaning of such term as used in ERISA solely with respect to its power to appoint certain fiduciaries under the Plan. Each fiduciary has only those duties and responsibilities specifically assigned to such fiduciary under the Plan. Section 13.3. Allocation and Delegation of Responsibilities. Each of the Administrative Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Executive Committee and the Investment Committee may allocate its responsibilities among its members and may designate any person, partnership, corporation or another committee to carry out any of its responsibilities with respect to the Plan. Any such allocation or designation shall be in writing and shall be kept with the records of the Plan. 77
Section 13.4. Professional and Other Services. The Company may employ counsel (who may be counsel for an Employer) to advise the Administrative Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Executive Committee and the Investment Committee and their agents and may arrange for clerical and other services as the Administrative Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Executive Committee and the Investment Committee and their agents may require in carrying out their duties hereunder. Section 13.5. Claims Procedure. If any Participant or distributee believes he or she is entitled to benefits in an amount greater than those which he or she is receiving or has received, he or she (or his or her duly authorized representative) may file a claim with the Administrative Committee. Such a claim shall be in writing and state the nature of the claim, the facts supporting the claim, the amount claimed and the address of the claimant. The Administrative Committee shall review the claim and, unless special circumstances require an extension of time, within 90 days after receipt of the claim give written or electronic notice to the claimant of its decision with respect to the claim. If special circumstances require an extension of time, the claimant shall be so advised in writing or by electronic means within the initial 90-day period and in no event shall such an extension exceed 90 days. The notice of the decision of the Administrative Committee with respect to the claim shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant and, if the claim is wholly or partially denied, shall set forth the specific reasons for the denial, specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is based, a description of any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary, and an explanation of the claim review procedure under the Plan and the time limits applicable to such 78
procedure (including a statement of the claimant's right to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA following the final denial of a claim). The claimant (or his or her duly authorized representative) may request a review of the denial by filing with the Administrative Committee a written request for such review within 60 days after notice of the denial has been received by the claimant. Within the same 60-day period, the claimant may submit to the Administrative Committee written comments, documents, records and other information relating to the claim. Upon request and free of charge, the claimant also may have reasonable access to, and copies of, documents, records and other information relevant to the claim. If a request for review is so filed, review of the denial shall be made by the Administrative Committee and the claimant shall be given written or electronic notice of the Administrative Committee's final decision within, unless special circumstances require an extension of time, 60 days after receipt of such request. If special circumstances require an extension of time, the claimant shall be so advised in writing or by electronic means within the initial 60-day period and in no event shall such an extension exceed 60 days. If the appeal of the claim is wholly or partially denied, the notice of the Administrative Committee's final decision shall include specific reasons for the denial, specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is based and a statement that the claimant is entitled, upon request and free of charge, to reasonable access to, and copies of, all relevant documents, records and information. The notice shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant and shall notify the claimant of his or her right to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA. In making determinations regarding claims for benefits, the Administrative Committee shall consider all of the relevant facts and circumstances, including, without 79
limitation, governing plan documents, consistent application of Plan provisions with respect to similarly situated claimants and any comments, documents, records and other information with respect to the claim submitted by the claimant (the "Claimant's Submissions"). The Claimant's Submissions shall be considered by the Administrative Committee without regard to whether the Claimant's Submissions were submitted or considered by the Administrative Committee in the initial benefit determination. Section 13.6. Notices to Participants. All notices, reports and statements given, made, delivered or transmitted to a Participant or distributee or any other person entitled to or claiming benefits under the Plan shall be deemed to have been duly given, made, delivered or transmitted when provided via such written or other means as may be permitted by applicable Regulations. A Participant, distributee or other person may record any change of his or her address by written notice filed with his or her Employer. Section 13.7. Notices to Administrative Committee or Employers. Written directions and notices and other written or electronic communications from Participants, distributees or other persons entitled to or claiming benefits under the Plan to the Administrative Committee or the Employers shall be deemed to have been duly given, made, delivered or transmitted when given, made, delivered or transmitted in the manner and to the location prescribed by the Administrative Committee or the Employers for the giving of such directions, notices and other communications. Section 13.8. Records. The Administrative Committee shall keep a record of all of its proceedings with respect to the Plan and shall keep or cause to be kept all books of account, records and other data as may be necessary or advisable in its judgment for the administration of the Plan. 80
Section 13.9. Reports of Trustee and Accounting to Participants. The Administrative Committee shall keep on file, in such form as it shall deem convenient and proper, all reports concerning the Trust Fund received by it from the Trustee, and, as soon as practicable after the close of each Plan Year, each Participant and Beneficiary shall be provided a written benefit statement indicating the balance credited to any Account for such individual as of the close of such Plan Year. Any Participant or Beneficiary claiming that an error has been made with respect to such balance shall notify the Administrative Committee in writing within ninety (90) days following the delivery of such benefit statement. If no notice of error timely is provided, the benefit statement shall be presumed to be correct. Section 13.10. Limitations on Investments and Transactions/Conversions. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary: (a) The Employee Benefits Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, may temporarily suspend, in whole or in part, certain Plan transactions, including, without limitation, the right to change or suspend contributions and/or the right to receive a distribution, loan or withdrawal from an Account in the event of any conversion, change in recordkeeper, change in investment funds and/or Plan merger or spinoff. (b) The Employee Benefits Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, may suspend, in whole or in part, temporarily or permanently, Plan transactions dealing with investments, including without limitation, the right of a Participant to change investment elections or reallocate Account balances in the event of any conversion, change in recordkeeper, change in investment funds and/or Plan merger or spinoff. (c) In the event of a change in investment funds and/or a Plan merger or spinoff, the Employee Benefits Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, may decide to 81
map investments from a Participant's prior investment fund elections to the then available investment funds under the Plan. In the event that investments are mapped in this manner, the Participant shall be permitted to reallocate funds among the investment funds (in accordance with Article 8 and any relevant rules and procedures adopted for this purpose) after the suspension period (if any) is lifted. (d) Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, the investment funds shall be subject to, and governed by, (1) all applicable legal rules and restrictions, (2) the rules specified by the investment fund providers in the fund prospectus(es) or other governing documents thereof and/or (3) any rules or procedures adopted by the Employee Benefits Committee governing the transfers of assets into or out of such funds. Such rules, procedures and restrictions may limit the ability of a Participant to make transfers into or out of a particular investment fund and/or may result in additional transaction fees or other costs relating to such transfers. In furtherance of, but without limiting the foregoing, the Plan may decline to implement any investment election or instruction where it deems appropriate. ARTICLE 14 PARTICIPATION BY EMPLOYERS Section 14.1. Adoption of Plan. With the consent of the Compensation Committee, any entity may become an Employer under the Plan by (a) taking such action as shall be necessary to adopt the Plan and (b) executing and delivering such instruments and taking such other action as may be necessary or desirable to put the Plan and Trust into effect with respect to such entity, as prescribed by the Compensation Committee. The powers and control of the Company, as provided in the Plan and the trust agreement, shall not be diminished by reason of participation of any such adopting entity in the Plan. 82
Section 14.2. Withdrawal from Participation. An Employer may withdraw from participation in the Plan at any time by filing with the Compensation Committee a duly certified copy of a written instrument duly adopted by the Employer to that effect and giving notice of its intended withdrawal to the Compensation Committee, the Employers and the Trustee prior to the effective date of withdrawal. Section 14.3. Company, Administrative Committee, Compensation Committee, Executive Committee and Investment Committee as Agents for Employers. Each entity which becomes an Employer pursuant to Section 14.1 or Section 14.4 by so doing shall be deemed to have appointed the Company, the Administrative Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Executive Committee and the Investment Committee as its agents to exercise on its behalf all of the powers and authorities conferred upon the Company, the Administrative Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Executive Committee and the Investment Committee by the terms of the Plan. The authority of the Company, the Administrative Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Executive Committee or the Investment Committee to act as such agent shall continue unless and until the portion of the Trust Fund held for the benefit of Employees of the particular Employer and their Beneficiaries is set aside in a separate Trust Fund as provided in Section 17.2. Section 14.4. Continuance by a Successor. In the event that an Employer other than the Company is reorganized by way of merger, consolidation, transfer of assets or otherwise, so that another entity other than an Employer succeeds to all or substantially all of such Employer's business, such successor entity may, with the consent of the Compensation Committee, be substituted for such Employer under the Plan by adopting the Plan. Contributions by such Employer automatically shall be suspended from the effective date of any such 83
reorganization until the date upon which the substitution of such successor entity for the Employer under the Plan becomes effective. If, within 90 days following the effective date of any such reorganization, such successor entity shall not have elected to adopt the Plan, the Compensation Committee fails to consent to such adoption, or an Employer adopts a plan of complete liquidation other than in connection with a reorganization, the Plan automatically shall be terminated with respect to employees of such Employer as of the close of business on the 90th day following the effective date of such reorganization or as of the close of business on the date of adoption of such plan of complete liquidation, as the case may be, and the Administrative Committee shall direct the Trustee to distribute the portion of the Trust Fund applicable to such Employer in the manner provided in Section 17.3. If such successor entity is substituted for an Employer as described above, then, for all purposes of the Plan, employment of each Employee with such Employer, including service with and compensation paid by such Employer, shall be considered to be employment with such successor entity. ARTICLE 15 MISCELLANEOUS Section 15.1. Expenses. All costs and expenses of administering the Plan and the Trust, including the expenses of the Company, the Administrative Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Executive Committee and the Investment Committee, the fees of counsel and of any agents for the Company or such committees, investment advisory and recordkeeping fees, the fees and expenses of the Trustee, the fees of counsel for the Trustee and other administrative expenses, shall be paid under the direction of the Administrative Committee from the Trust Fund to the extent such expenses are not paid by the Employers. The 84
Administrative Committee, in its sole discretion, having regard to the nature of a particular expense, shall determine the portion of such expense that is to be borne by each Employer. An Employer may seek reimbursement of any expense paid by such Employer that the Administrative Committee determines is properly payable from the Trust Fund. Section 15.2. Non-Assignability. (a) In General. No right or interest of any Participant or Beneficiary in the Plan shall be assignable or transferable in whole or in part, either directly or by operation of law or otherwise, including, but not by way of limitation, execution, levy, garnishment, attachment, pledge or bankruptcy, but excluding devolution by death or mental incompetency, and any attempt to do so shall be void, and no right or interest of any Participant or Beneficiary in the Plan shall be liable for, or subject to, any obligation or liability of such Participant or Beneficiary, including claims for alimony or the support of any spouse, except as provided below. (b) Exception for Qualified Domestic Relations Orders. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, if a Participant's Account under the Plan, or any portion thereof, is the subject of one or more qualified domestic relations orders (as defined in section 414(p) of the Code), such Account or portion thereof shall be paid to the person, at the time and in the manner specified in any such order. The Administrative Committee shall adopt rules and procedures, in accordance with section 414(p) of the Code, relating to its (i) review of any domestic relations order for purposes of determining whether the order is a qualified domestic relations order and (ii) administration of a qualified domestic relations order. A domestic relations order shall not fail to constitute a qualified domestic relations order solely because such order provides for distribution to an alternate payee of the benefit assigned to the alternate payee 85
under the Plan prior to the applicable Participant's earliest retirement age (as defined in section 414(p) of the Code) under the Plan. (c) Other Exception. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, if a Participant is ordered or required to pay an amount to the Plan pursuant to (i) a judgement in a criminal action, (ii) a civil judgement in connection with a violation (or alleged violation) of Part 4 of Subtitle B of Title I of ERISA or (iii) a settlement agreement between the Secretary of Labor and the Participant or the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation and the Participant in connection with a violation (or alleged violation) of Part 4 of Subtitle B of Title I of ERISA, the Participant's Account under the Plan may, to the extent permitted by law, be offset by such amount. Section 15.3. Employment Non-Contractual. The Plan confers no right upon an Employee to continue in employment. Section 15.4. Merger or Consolidation with Another Plan/Transfer Contributions. (a) The Employee Benefits Committee shall have the right to merge or consolidate all or a portion of the Plan with, or transfer all or part of the assets or liabilities of the Plan to, any other plan; provided, however, that the terms of such merger, consolidation or transfer are such that each Participant, distributee, Beneficiary or other person entitled to receive benefits from the Plan would, if the Plan were to terminate immediately after the merger, consolidation or transfer, receive a benefit equal to or greater than the benefit such person would be entitled to receive if the Plan were to terminate immediately before the merger, consolidation or transfer. 86
(b) Amounts transferred to the Plan pursuant to Subsection (a) above (the "Transfer Contributions") shall be subject to all terms and conditions of the Plan as in effect from time to time, except to the extent provided on a Schedule to the Plan which may contain additional terms and conditions governing the application of the Plan to the Transfer Contributions. The terms of any such Schedule are hereby incorporated and made part of the Plan and, in the event of any inconsistency between the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Schedule, the Schedule shall control with respect to the Transfer Contributions covered by the Schedule; provided, however, that if such inconsistency results from changes made in the provisions of the Plan to comply with applicable law, then such provisions of the Plan shall control. Section 15.5. Gender and Plurals. Wherever used in the Plan, words in the masculine gender shall include the masculine or feminine gender, and, unless the context otherwise requires, words in the singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the singular. Section 15.6. Applicable Law. The Plan and all rights hereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Florida to the extent such laws have not been preempted by applicable federal law. Venue for any action arising under the Plan shall be in Brevard County, Florida. Section 15.7. Severability. If any provision of the Plan is held illegal or invalid, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions of the Plan and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included in the Plan. Section 15.8. No Guarantee. None of the Company, the Employers, the Administrative Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Executive Committee, the 87
Investment Committee or the Trustee in any way guarantees the Trust from loss or depreciation nor the payment of any benefit that may be or become due to any person from the Trust Fund. Nothing in the Plan shall be deemed to give any Participant, distributee or Beneficiary an interest in any specific part of the Trust Fund or any other interest except the right to receive benefits from the Trust Fund in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and the trust agreement. Section 15.9. Plan Voluntary. Although it is intended that the Plan shall be continued and that contributions shall be made as herein provided, the Plan is entirely voluntary on the part of the Employers and the continuance of the Plan and the contributions hereunder are not and shall not be regarded as contractual obligations of the Employers. ARTICLE 16 TOP-HEAVY PLAN REQUIREMENTS Section 16.1. Top-Heavy Plan Determination. If as of the determination date (as hereinafter defined) for any Plan Year the aggregate of (a) the account balances under the Plan and all other defined contribution plans in the aggregation group (as hereinafter defined) and (b) the present value of accrued benefits under all defined benefit plans in such aggregation group of all participants in such plans who are key employees (as hereinafter defined) for such Plan Year exceeds 60% of the aggregate of the account balances and the present value of accrued benefits of all participants in such plans as of the determination date, then the Plan shall be a "top-heavy plan" for such Plan Year, and the requirements of Section 16.3 shall be applicable for such Plan Year as of the first day thereof. If the Plan is a top-heavy plan for any Plan Year and is not a top-heavy plan for any subsequent Plan Year, the requirements of Section 16.3 shall not be applicable for such subsequent Plan Year. 88
Section 16.2. Definitions and Special Rules. (a) Definitions. For purposes of this Article 16, the following definitions shall apply: (1) Determination Date. The determination date for all plans in the aggregation group shall be the last day of the preceding Plan Year, and the valuation date applicable to a determination date shall be (i) in the case of a defined contribution plan, the date as of which account balances are determined that coincides with or immediately precedes the determination date, and (ii) in the case of a defined benefit plan, the date as of which the most recent actuarial valuation for the Plan Year that includes the determination date is prepared, except that if any such plan specifies a different determination or valuation date, such different date shall be used with respect to such plan. (2) Aggregation Group. The aggregation group shall consist of (a) each plan of an Employer in which a key employee is a participant, (b) each other plan that enables such a plan to be qualified under section 401(a) of the Code, and (c) any other plans of an Employer that the Company designates as part of the aggregation group. (3) Key Employee. Key employee shall have the meaning set forth in section 416(i) of the Code. (4) Compensation. Compensation shall have the meaning set forth in U.S. Treasury Regulation section 1.415-2(d). (b) Special Rules. For the purpose of determining the accrued benefit or account balance of a participant, (i) the accrued benefit or account balance of any person who 89
has not performed services for an Employer at any time during the one-year period ending on the determination date shall not be taken into account pursuant to this Section, and (ii) any person who received a distribution from a plan (including a plan that has terminated) in the aggregation group during the one-year period ending on the determination date shall be treated as a participant in such plan, and any such distribution shall be included in such participant's account balance or accrued benefit, as the case may be; provided, however, that in the case of a distribution made for a reason other than a person's severance from employment, death or disability, clause (ii) of this Section 16.2(b) shall be applied by substituting "five-year period" for "one-year period." Section 16.3. Minimum Contribution for Top-Heavy Years. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, for any Plan Year for which the Plan is a top-heavy plan, a minimum contribution shall be made on behalf of each Participant (other than a key employee) who is an Employee on the last day of the Plan Year in an amount equal to the lesser of (i) 3% of such Participant's compensation during such Plan Year and (ii) the highest percentage at which Employer contributions (including pre-tax contributions) are made on behalf of any key employee for such Plan Year. If during any Plan Year for which this Section 16.3 is applicable a defined benefit plan is included in the aggregation group and such defined benefit plan is a top-heavy plan for such Plan Year, the percentage set forth in clause (i) of the first sentence of this Section 16.3 shall be 5%. The percentage referred to in clause (ii) of the first sentence of this Section 16.3 shall be obtained by dividing the aggregate of Employer contributions made pursuant to Article 4 and pursuant to any other defined contribution plan that is required to be included in the aggregation group (other than a defined contribution plan that enables a defined benefit plan that is required to be included in such group to be qualified under 90
section 401(a) of the Code) during the Plan Year on behalf of such key employee by such key employee's compensation for the Plan Year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the minimum contribution described in this Section 16.3 for any Plan Year for which the Plan is a top-heavy plan shall not be made under this Plan with respect to any Participant who receives a minimum contribution or minimum benefit for purposes of section 416(c) of the Code under another plan maintained by an Affiliate. In order to satisfy the minimum contribution required by this Section 16.3, the profit sharing contribution for a Plan Year for which the Plan is a top-heavy plan first shall be allocated, without regard to any Social Security contribution, to all Participants who are Employees on the last day of such Plan Year in an amount that meets the minimum contribution requirement. Any remaining profit sharing contribution shall be allocated in accordance with Sections 4.3 and 8.6. ARTICLE 17 AMENDMENT, ESTABLISHMENT OF SEPARATE PLAN, PLAN TERMINATION AND CHANGE OF CONTROL Section 17.1. Amendment. The Compensation Committee (or such other committee of the Board as the Board may designate from time to time) may, at any time and from time to time, amend or modify the Plan. Any such amendment or modification shall become effective as of such date determined by the Compensation Committee (or such other committee), including retroactively to the extent permitted by law, and may apply to Participants in the Plan at the time thereof as well as to future Participants. Section 17.2. Establishment of Separate Plan. If an Employer withdraws from the Plan pursuant to Section 14.2, then the Administrative Committee shall determine the portion 91
of each of the funds of the Trust Fund that is applicable to the Participants of such Employer and their Beneficiaries and direct the Trustee to segregate such portions in a separate trust. Such separate trust thereafter shall be held and administered as a part of the separate plan of such Employer. The portion of a fund of the Trust Fund applicable to the Participants (and Beneficiaries) of a particular Employer shall be an amount that bears the same ratio to the value of such fund as the total value of the fund accounts of Participants (and Beneficiaries) of such Employer bears to the total value of the fund accounts of all Participants (and Beneficiaries). Section 17.3. Termination. The Company at any time may terminate the Plan by resolution of an appropriate committee of the Board. An Employer at any time may terminate its participation in the Plan by resolution of its board of directors. In the event of any such termination, or in the event of the partial termination of the Plan with respect to a group of Participants, the Accounts of Participants with respect to whom the Plan is terminated shall become fully vested and thereafter shall not be subject to forfeiture. In the event that an Employer terminates its participation in the Plan, the Administrative Committee shall determine, in the manner provided in Section 17.2, the portion of each of the funds of the Trust Fund that is applicable to the Participants of such Employer and their Beneficiaries and direct the Trustee to distribute such portions to such Participants and Beneficiaries ratably in proportion to the balances of their respective Accounts. A complete discontinuance of contributions by an Employer shall be deemed a termination of such Employer's participation in the Plan for purposes of this Section. Section 17.4. Change of Control. (a) Effect. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, during the period commencing on the date of a Change of Control and ending at the close of business on the last day of the Fiscal Year during which the Change of 92
Control occurs (the "Restriction Period"), the Plan may not be terminated, and the Plan may not be amended to: (1) revise the definition of Eligible Employee such that fewer Employees are eligible to participate in the Plan, lengthen the service requirement for participation in the Plan, create an age requirement or entry dates for participation in the Plan or otherwise reduce coverage under the Plan; (2) reduce the amount of profit sharing contribution required to be made for the Plan Year ending on the last day of the Restriction Period; (3) reduce the amount of pre-tax contributions or after-tax contributions that a Participant is permitted to make under the Plan; or (4) reduce the amount of matching contributions required to be made under the Plan. (b) Miscellaneous. (1) Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, the amount of the EPS Profit Sharing Contribution for the Plan Year ending on the last day of the Restriction Period shall be in an amount not less than the amount that would be determined as if the Earnings Per Share had reached the midpoint between the Minimum Earnings Per Share Target and Maximum Earnings Per Share Target as originally approved for the Plan Year; notwithstanding actual results or any changes or modifications occurring after any such Change of Control. (2) Any person who was an Eligible Employee on the day immediately preceding a Change of Control shall be deemed to be an Eligible Employee during the Restriction Period so long as the person is employed by a member of a "controlled group of corporations" which includes, or by a trade or business that 93
is under common control with (as those terms are defined in sections 414(b) and (c) of the Code), the Company, any corporation which is the survivor of any merger or consolidation to which the Company was a party, or any corporation into which the Company has been liquidated. Section 17.5. Trust Fund to Be Applied Exclusively for Participants and Their Beneficiaries. Subject only to the provisions of Article 6 and Sections 15.2(b) and (c), and any other provision of the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, no part of the Trust Fund shall be used for or diverted to any purpose not for the exclusive benefit of the Participants and their Beneficiaries either by operation or termination of the Plan, power of amendment or other means. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be executed by its duly authorized officer this 31st day of October, 2005. HARRIS CORPORATION By: /s/ John D. Gronda ------------------ John D. Gronda Title: Secretary, Employee Benefits Committee 94
SCHEDULE A TERMS OF MERGER OF THE ENCODA SYSTEMS, INC. PROFIT SHARING PLAN AND TRUST (THE "ENCODA PLAN") 1. All capitalized terms used in this Schedule A and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning assigned to them by this Plan or the Encoda Plan, as applicable. 2. To the extent determined by the Administration Committee, a separate sub-account will be maintained under Section 8.1 of the Plan for each Participant who had an account balance under the Encoda Plan on March 31, 2005 (the "Effective Date") for the amounts transferred from the Encoda Plan to the Plan (the "Transfer Contributions"). The Transfer Contributions shall further be sub-divided and classified as follows: (a) Transfer Contributions attributable to pre-tax contributions under the Encoda Plan shall be classified as pre-tax contributions under the Plan. (b) Transfer Contributions attributable to after-tax contributions under the Encoda Plan shall be classified as after-tax contributions under the Plan. (c) Transfer Contributions attributable to the profit sharing contributions under the Encoda Plan, if any, shall be classified as profit sharing contributions under the Plan. (d) Transfer Contributions attributable to matching contributions under the Encoda Plan shall be classified as matching contributions under the Plan. (e) Transfer Contributions attributable to rollover contributions under the Encoda Plan shall be classified as rollover contributions under the Plan. 3. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Participant shall be fully vested in his Transfer Contributions from the Encoda Plan. 4. The Transfer Contributions from the Encoda Plan shall be subject to the withdrawal and distribution provisions of the Plan, except as noted below: (a) Any loan outstanding from the Encoda Plan shall continue in effect until paid off or defaulted under the terms of the loan instruments. All outstanding loans shall be counted towards the maximum number of loans permitted under the Plan. (b) A Participant who continues employment after attaining age 70-1/2 will be entitled to elect to commence distribution of his Transfer
Contributions Account no later than April 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Participant attains age 70-1/2 even if such Participant remains employed. Distributions under this paragraph will be made in accordance with Section 9.1(c) (age 59-1/2 withdrawals) or Section 9.3(d) (age 70-1/2 minimum distributions), as elected by the Participant. 2


