FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20050422153615.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On April 21, 2005, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Harris Corporation increased the authorized number of directors constituting the Board from ten to eleven and elected Hansel E. Tookes II to the Board. A copy of the press release announcing the election of Mr. Tookes is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 5.02 by reference. Mr. Tookes was assigned to the classification of directors with a term ending at Harris Corporations 2005 Annual Meeting (Class II) to be held in October 2005, at which time he will stand for election for a three-year term. Mr. Tookes also was appointed as a member of the Business Conduct Committee of the Board. There was no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Tookes and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Tookes was selected as a director.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibit is filed with this Current Report on Form 8 K: 99.1 Press Release, issued by Harris Corporation on April 22, 2005.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
 Harris Corporation (NYSE:HRS) today announced that Hansel E. Tookes II has been elected to its Board of Directors.
MELBOURNE, Florida, April 22, 2005
Tookes, 57, retired in December 2002 from Raytheon Company, where he served as president and chief executive officer and then chairman of Raytheon Aircraft. He also served as president of Raytheon International. Prior to joining Raytheon in 1999, Tookes spent nearly 20 years with United Technologies Corporation, where he held a variety of leadership positions including president of the Pratt & Whitney Large Military Engine Group and executive vice president of Aircraft Products. Tookes led the Pratt & Whitney Large Military Engine Group as it won the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program and developed and brought to market Pratt's engine for the F/A-22 Fighter. He served in the U.S. Navy for seven years flying P-3 Orion aircraft and later was a pilot with United Airlines.
"We are extremely pleased to welcome Hansel to our board," said Howard L. Lance, chairman, president, and chief executive officer of Harris. "He has had a distinguished career in the aerospace industry and possesses a thorough understanding of technology-driven business environments. We look forward to drawing on his experience and insights as Harris continues to pursue expanding opportunities in both commercial and government markets."
Tookes is a member of the board of directors of Ryder System, Inc., FPL Group, Inc., and Corning, Inc. He is a member of the National Academies' Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board and a former member of the Advisory Group to the Secretary of the Air Force. He is on the board of the Florida Education Fund, which provides support for minorities pursuing Ph.D. and law programs, and is a board member of the Florida State University Foundation. Tookes received a B.S. degree in physics from Florida State University and an M.S. degree in aeronautical systems from the University of West Florida. He also completed the Advanced Management Program (AMP) at the Harvard University Graduate School of Business.
Harris Corporation is an international communications technology company focused on providing  products, systems and services for government and commercial customers. The company's operating divisions serve markets for government communications, tactical radio, broadcast, and microwave systems. Harris provides systems and service to customers in more than 150 countries. Additional information about Harris Corporation is available at .
assured communications
www.harris.com
Photo available on request
Editor's note:
:
Contact Information
Harris Corporate Headquarters 321-727-9131
Tom Hausman
tom.hausman@harris.com


