FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20060302102449.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On February 28, 2006, Harris Corporation ("Harris" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing that Bryan R. Roub, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will be retiring from Harris on June 30, 2006 and will cease serving as Chief Financial Officer effective March 1, 2006. Mr. Roub will serve as Senior Vice President until his retirement and will assist in the transition for the finance organization. On February 28, 2006, Harris also announced the promotion of Gary L. McArthur, 45, to the position of Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective March 1, 2006. The full text of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Mr. McArthur serves at the pleasure of the Board. There is no family relationship between Mr. McArthur and any of the executive officers or directors of Harris. Mr. McArthur does not have a written employment agreement with Harris. Following his promotion, Mr. McArthurs annual base salary will be $320,000 and he will participate in the Harris Annual Incentive Plan at an incentive target payout for fiscal 2006 of $180,000 (with a minimum payout of $0 and a maximum payout of $360,000) based upon earnings per share and revenue performance criteria. Mr. McArthur is party to a change in control severance agreement with Harris in substantially the form that has been filed as Exhibit 10(a) to the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1996, and which provides severance benefits in the event Mr. McArthurs employment is terminated by Harris without cause, or by Mr. McArthur for good reason, within two years following a change of control. If triggered, the lump-sum severance benefit payable under Mr. McArthurs change in control severance agreement will include two times his highest annual rate of base salary during the 12-month period prior to the date of termination and two times the greatest of his highest annual bonus in the three years prio r to the year during which the change in control occurred, his target bonus for the year during which the change of control occurred or his target bonus for the year in which his employment is terminated. Mr. McArthur is eligible to participate in the Harris equity incentive plans, retirement, health and welfare plans on the same terms offered to other participants and is also eligible to receive perquisites on the same basis as is offered to other executive officers.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibit is filed herewith: 99.1 Press Release, issued by Harris Corporation on February 28, 2006.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 Harris Corporation (NYSE: HRS) today announced that Bryan R. Roub, 64, senior vice president and chief financial officer, will retire from the company June 30, 2006. Gary L. McArthur, 45, has been appointed vice president and chief financial officer, replacing Roub effective March 1. McArthur was previously vice presidentFinance and Treasurer for Harris.
MELBOURNE, Florida, February 28, 2006
"I'm extremely grateful for Bryan's contributions to Harris during his 22 years of service, particularly during the past three years in which the company has experienced unprecedented growth," said Howard L. Lance, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "He has been one of my closest advisors and has worked alongside of Gary over the past year to ensure a smooth management transition. Bryan's leadership has been truly outstanding, and he has developed a world-class financial organization.
"Gary has a broad background in finance, accounting, mergers and acquisitions, and operations," Lance said. "He has a proven track record and has earned the respect of the company's corporate and division organizations. He will serve the interests of our company and shareholders very well as CFO."
McArthur joined Harris in 1997 as directorCorporate Development and was promoted to vice presidentCorporate Development in 2000. During the following five years he was responsible for mergers and acquisitions, venture capital investments, product line management initiatives and restructuring actions. In 2005 he was named vice presidentFinance and Treasurer, with responsibility for division controllers and their organizations as well as the treasury and tax functions. Prior to joining Harris, he was chief financial officer for 3D/EYE, Inc. Previously, he was executive directorMexico for Nextel Communications, Inc., where he was responsible for Nextel's operations and corporate development in Mexico. Prior to this, he was an investment banker for Lehman Brothers, Inc., and held finance and accounting positions at Cellcom Corporation, and Deloitte & Touche.
McArthur has a bachelor's degree in accounting from the University of Utah and an M.B.A. from the Harvard Graduate School of Business. He is also a Certified Public Accountant.
Harris is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 150 countries. With headquarters in Melbourne, Florida, the company has annual sales of over $3 billion and more than 13,000 employees  including 5,500 engineers and scientists  dedicated to the development of best-in-class  products, systems, and services. The company's operating divisions serve markets for government communications, RF communications, broadcast communications, and microwave communications. Additional information about Harris Corporation is available at .
assured communications
www.harris.com


