FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20060831170352.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On August 25, 2006, the Management Development and Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Harris Corporation (the "Company") or, in the case of such actions with respect to Howard L. Lance, the Company's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, on August 26, 2006, the Committee, together with the other independent members of the Board (together the "Independent Directors"), took the actions described below.
Compensation Actions Regarding Named Executive Officers
The executive officers defined as "named executive officers" in Item 402(a)(3) of Regulation S-K and who will be named in the summary compensation table in the proxy statement for the Company's 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are referred to below in this Current Report on Form 8-K as "the fiscal 2006 named executive officers." The Company intends to provide additional information regarding the compensation paid to the fiscal 2006 named executive officers for fiscal 2006 in the proxy statement for the Company's 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which proxy statement is expected to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in September 2006.
(a) :
Fiscal 2006 Cash Bonus Payments
The Committee, or with respect to Mr. Lance, the Independent Directors, approved cash bonus payments for fiscal 2006 to the Company's fiscal 2006 named executive officers and certain other officers of the Company, based upon the finalization of the Company's financial statements for fiscal 2006, which ended June 30, 2006. Cash bonus payments in respect of fiscal 2006, which were paid in fiscal 2007, were made under the Company's Annual Incentive Plan pursuant to performance criteria established by the Committee, or with respect to Mr. Lance, the Independent Directors, early in fiscal 2006. The pre-established performance criteria included earnings per share, revenue and/or operating income results. Cash bonus payments to the fiscal 2006 named executive officers were as follows:
Name; Principal Position and Amount of Fiscal 2006 Cash Bonus:
Howard L. Lance Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer $1,850,000
Robert K. Henry Executive Vice President and President, Government Communications Systems Division $460,000
Jeffrey S. Shuman Vice President, Human Resources & Corporate Relations $325,000
Guy M. Campbell President, Microwave Communications Division $265,000
Gary L. McArthur Vice President, Chief Financial Officer $260,000
Bryan R. Roub Senior Vice President $485,000
(b) :
Fiscal 2006 Performance Share Award Payouts
The Committee, or with respect to Mr. Lance, the Independent Directors, determined performance share award payouts for the three fiscal year performance period ended June 30, 2006, to certain of the Company's officers and employees, including the fiscal 2006 named executive officers. The payouts for the performance period ended June 30, 2006, together with the dollar value of those payouts based on the closing price per share of the Company's common stock of $41.51 on June 30, 2006, are as follows:
 
Name; Principal Position; Fiscal 2006 Number of Shares Paid Out and Dollar Value:
Howard L. Lance Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Fiscal 2006 Number of Shares Paid Out: 45,000 Fiscal 2006 Dollar Value: $1,867,950
Robert K. Henry Executive Vice President and President, Government Communications Systems Division Fiscal 2006 Number of Shares Paid Out: 22,500 Fiscal 2006 Dollar Value: $933,975
Jeffrey S. Shuman Vice President, Human Resources & Corporate Relations Fiscal 2006 Payout: N/A* Fiscal 2006 Dollar Value: N/A*
Guy M. Campbell President, Microwave Communications Division Fiscal 2006 Number of Shares Paid Out: 22,500 Fiscal 2006 Dollar Value: $933,975
Gary L. McArthur Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Fiscal 2006 Number of Shares Paid Out: 6,000 Fiscal 2006 Dollar Value: $249,060
Bryan R. Roub Senior Vice President Fiscal 2006 Number of Shares Paid Out: 22,500 Fiscal 2006 Dollar Value: $933,975
Fiscal 2006 performance share award payouts made to the fiscal 2006 named executive officers were made pursuant to the Company's 2000 Stock Incentive Plan based on pre-established performance criteria, consisting of the Company's earnings per share ("EPS") and Return on Invested Capital. A copy of Mr. Campbell's Offer Letter, dated August 8, 2003, is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, the material terms of which are described below under the heading "Employment Agreements."
(c) :
Fiscal 2007 Base Salary Increases
Mr. Roub retired from the Company effective June 30, 2006. The Company currently expects that Messrs. Lance, Henry, McArthur, Campbell, Shuman and Timothy E. Thorsteinson, the President of the Company's Broadcast Communications Division, will be the Company's executive officers who will be named in the Summary Compensation table in the Proxy Statement for the Company's 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Therefore, references to "fiscal 2007 named executive officers" in the remainder of this Current Report on Form 8-K refer to Messrs. Lance, Henry, McArthur, Campbell, Shuman and Thorsteinson. A copy of Mr. Thorsteinson's existing employment agreement, as amended, is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, the material terms of which are described below under the heading "Employment Agreements."
The Committee, or with respect to Mr. Lance, the Independent Directors, approved the following annual base salaries for the fiscal 2007 named executive officers, effective September 2, 2006: Howard L. Lance  $950,000; Robert K. Henry  $500,000; Gary L. McArthur  $380,000; Jeffrey S. Shuman  $355,000; Guy M. Campbell  $360,000; and Timothy E. Thorsteinson  $425,000.
(d) :
Fiscal 2007 Cash Bonus Levels
The Committee, or with respect to Mr. Lance, the Independent Directors, approved the minimum, target and maximum cash bonus award levels for the Company's executive officers, including each of the fiscal 2007 named executive officers, for fiscal 2007 under the Company's Annual Incentive Plan, and determined that the performance criteria that will be applied for purposes of fiscal 2007 bonus determinations will include: for Mr. Lance, the Company's earnings per share ("EPS"); for Messrs. Shuman and McArthur, the Company's EPS and
 
revenue for Mr. Henry, the Company's EPS and the performance of the Company's Government Communications Systems Division; for Mr. Campbell, the Company's EPS and the performance of the Company's Microwave Communications Division; and for Mr. Thorsteinson, the Company's EPS and the performance of the Company's Broadcast Communications Division. The minimum, target and maximum cash bonus award levels for fiscal 2007 are as follows: Howard L. Lance: 0  $1,275,000 - $2,550,000; Robert K. Henry: 0  $400,000  $800,000; Jeffrey S. Shuman: 0  $240,000  $480,000; Guy M. Campbell: 0  $240,000  $480,000; Timothy E. Thorsteinson: 0  $285,000  $570,000; and Gary L. McArthur: 0  $255,000  $510,000. The Committee, or with respect to Mr. Lance, the Independent Directors, may (consistent with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code) adjust the payouts based upon certain goals and objectives relating to individual performance.
(e) :
Fiscal 2007 Grants of Stock Options and Performance Share or Performance Unit Awards
The Committee, or with respect to Mr. Lance, the Independent Directors, approved under the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan the grant to each fiscal 2007 named executive officer of options to purchase shares of the Company's common stock, which options have a seven year term and have an exercise price equal to $43.82, which is the closing price per share of the Company's common stock on August 25, 2006, as follows: Howard L. Lance - 155,000 shares; Robert K. Henry  51,000 shares; Jeffrey S. Shuman  29,000 shares; Guy M. Campbell  22,000 shares; Gary L. McArthur  31,000 shares; and Timothy E. Thorsteinson  26,000 shares. The options granted to the executive officers, including the fiscal 2007 named executive officers, vest in increments over a period of three years as follows: 50% vest on August 25, 2007; an additional 25% vest on August 25, 2008; and the final 25% vest on August 25, 2009. The exercise price may be paid in cash and/or shares of the Company's common stock, or by "cashless exercise'' procedures.
In addition, the Committee, or with respect to Mr. Lance, the Independent Directors, approved the grant of performance shares or units under the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan to each fiscal 2007 named executive officer for the three fiscal year performance period consisting of fiscal years 2007, 2008 and 2009, including minimum, target and maximum award levels, as follows: Howard L. Lance: 0  37,200  55,800 performance shares; Robert K. Henry: 0  12,200  18,300 performance shares; Jeffrey S. Shuman: 0  6,900  10,350 performance shares; Guy M. Campbell 0  5,300  7,950 performance shares; Gary L. McArthur: 0  7,400  11,100 performance shares; and Timothy E. Thorsteinson 0  6,200  9,300 performance units. Payouts of performance share or unit awards will be in shares of the Company's common stock based on achievement over the three-year performance period of the performance goals, relating to: cumulative Company EPS and average Company return on capital. Payouts may be adjusted based upon comparisons between the Company's EPS and return on capital performance and the corresponding results for companies included in Standard and Poor's 500 and Midcap 400 indices. The actual performance share award or unit payouts with respect to these awards will vary from 0% to 150% of the target number of performance shares or units indicated above, based on the extent to which the performance goals are attained. All performance shares or units provide for the payment of dividend equivalents to the applicable recipient while the performance shares or units remain outstanding but have not yet been earned.
(f) :
Grant of Restricted Stock Units
The Committee approved the grant of 5,200 restricted stock units under the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan to Timothy E. Thorsteinson. Payout of the restricted stock units will be in shares of the Company's common stock on August 25, 2009, provided that Mr. Thorsteinson is still employed by the Company at that time. The restricted stock units provide for the payment of dividend equivalents while the restricted share units remain outstanding but have not yet been earned.
(g) :
Additional Life Insurance Benefit for Mr. Lance
The Independent Directors approved an enhancement to Mr. Lance's basic life insurance benefit. Effective August 26, 2006, Mr. Lance's basic life insurance benefit will be two and one-half times his eligible compensation, subject to a limit of $10 million of coverage. Eligible compensation consists of annual base salary plus the current annual incentive plan target bonus. The Company will also reimburse Mr. Lance for any federal income tax obligation resulting from this benefit.
Employment Agreements
(a)
Guy M. Campbell
A copy of Mr. Campbell's Offer Letter, dated August 8, 2003, is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. The only terms and conditions of the Offer Letter of continuing applicability are that Mr. Campbell is eligible to receive two years of base and incentive compensation in the event of a change in control and one year of severance benefits in the event Mr. Campbell's employment is terminated by the Company for other than performance reasons.
(b)
Timothy E. Thorsteinson
A copy of Mr. Thorsteinson's existing employment agreement, as amended, is filed as Exhibit 10.2, to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. On November 17, 2003, Mr. Thorsteinson entered into a Letter Agreement with Leitch Technology Corporation ("Leitch"), which was later amended by a June 9, 2005 compensation amendment letter (collectively, the "Original Employment Agreement"). In connection with an Arrangement Agreement dated August 31, 2005 between the Company and Leitch for the Company's acquisition of Leitch, Leitch and Mr. Thorsteinson entered into a Letter Agreement dated August 31, 2005 (collectively, the "August 2005 Employment Agreements"), which amended certain terms and conditions of the Original Employment Agreement. A Letter Agreement dated October 24, 2005 between the Company and Mr. Thorsteinson (the "October 2005 Letter Agreement") further amended the August 2005 Employment Agreements. The Original Employment Agreement, as amended by the August 2005 Employment Agreements and the October 2005 Letter Agreement are collectively referred to below as the "Employment Agreement."
The terms and conditions of the Employment Agreement provide that Mr. Thorsteinson shall serve as President of Leitch, with compensation including an annual salary of $400,000 USD (which has been subsequently increased as set forth above), which will be reviewed annually and may be increased at the discretion of the Company, and any applicable bonus under the Company's Annual Incentive Plan. In addition, Mr. Thorsteinson is eligible to participate in all benefit plans generally available to senior executives of Leitch and to receive payment of the cost of preparation of his United States and Canadian income tax returns for 2006 and tax gross-up payments with respect to his base salary and bonus earned in Canada through November 23, 2006.
The Employment Agreement provides that if Mr. Thorsteinson remains actively employed by Leitch or other affiliates of the Company on October 24,2006 (the "Payment Date") and if Leitch satisfies a specified revenue target in fiscal 2006, Leitch will pay Mr. Thorsteinson a lump sum payment of $850,000 USD (the "Payment"). The Employment Agreement provides for an indefinite term of employment ending on the termination of Mr. Thorsteinson's employment by Leitch or the Company with or without "cause" (as defined in the Employment Agreement). In the event Mr. Thorsteinson's employment is terminated without cause, or if Mr. Thorsteinson is constructively dismissed, prior to the Payment Date, Mr. Thorsteinson would be entitled to receive from Leitch the Payment, within thirty calendar days of the date of such termination or dismissal. In the event Mr. Thorsteinson's employment is terminated without cause, or if Mr. Thorsteinson is constructively dismissed, after the Payment Date, Mr. Thorsteinson would be entitled to receive from Leitch a lump sum payment equal to his then base salary plus bonus paid in respect of Leitch's fiscal year 2006, within thirty calendar days of the date of such termination or dismissal. In the event that Mr. Thorsteinson s employment is terminated without cause, or if Mr. Thorsteinson is constructively dismissed, Mr. Thorsteinson would also be entitled to receive from Leitch continued participation in the medical, disability and group term life insurance benefits of Leitch until 12 months following such date of such termination or dismissal (or, if earlier, until the date or dates on which he receives similar benefits coverage elsewhere).
The Employment Agreement also provides that Mr. Thorsteinson will not, during his employment and for a twelve-month period following termination of his employment, be engaged in any undertaking, have any financial or other interest, or advise or provide services to, lend money to or guarantee the debts or obligations of, an enterprise, that competes in any material respect with the Company, Leitch or any of its affiliates; and during his employment and for a twenty-four month period following termination of his employment, solicit any customer or any employee, or appropriate any corporate opportunity of, the Company, Leitch or any of its affiliates.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
c) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
August 8, 2003
Mr. Guy M. Campbell 2002 Castalia Drive Cary, North Carolina 27513
Dear Guy,
I am pleased to offer you the position of President of Harris' Microwave Communications Division. The following list summarizes key compensation components of our offer as well as other benefits offered to Corporate Officers.
 
Guy, I am excited about the prospect of your joining our management team and working together as we grow our commercial communications business. Please call Nick Heldreth (321-727-9314) or me (321-724-3900) if you have any questions. I look forward to hearing from you soon.
Sincerely,
/s/ H. L. Lance

 
Exhibit 10.2
November 17, 2003
Mr. Timothy Thorsteinson
Dear Tim:
Further to our recent discussions with you regarding your new role with Leitch Technology Corporation ("Leitch") and its related companies (collectively, the "Corporation"), we are writing to confirm the terms and conditions of our agreement with you which are as follows:
 
 
 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, your Date of Termination will be in the case of termination under section 14(a) or (b), the date of the notice and in the case of resignation under section 14(c), the end of the two-month notice period, provided that no period of statutory or reasonable notice shall be included in determining Date of Termination.
 
provided that, for greater certainty, there shall not be a Change in Control if you or any corporation which you control or with which you are associated or affiliated, acquires or is part of a group of persons which acquires, 51% or more of the corporation's voting securities.
in either of Canada or the United States, which is the same as or which compete in any material respect with that of the Corporation in respect of products supplied to the television industry or any material part thereof, carried on by the corporation or any of its subsidiaries.
Nothing in this section 18 shall prevent you from owning not more than 5% of any class of securities of any entity, the securities of which are listed on a recognized stock exchange or traded in the over the counter market in Canada or the United States, which carries on a business which is the same or which competes with the television industry supply business of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries.
 
Corporation or any of its subsidiaries at any time during the six months preceding the Restricted Period.
 
Yours very truly,
/s/ Bill Baker Bill Baker Director
     I have read, understand and agree to the terms and conditions set out above as of the 17 day of November, 2003.
th
 
PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL
Tim Thorsteinson Leitch Technology Corporation 150 Ferrand Drive Suite 700 Toronto, Ontario M3C 3E5
Dear Tim:
     Re: Compensation
     Further to our discussions respecting your compensation, this letter sets out the terms of your compensation for the fiscal year 2006 and your bonus entitlement to April 30, 2005. Except to the extent specified in this letter, your agreement with Leitch Technology Corporation dated November 17, 2003 as amended governs the terms of your employment.
     Your salary for the fiscal year 2006 will be $400,000 (U.S.) per annum. Your bonus for the period November 24, 2003 to April 30, 2005 will be $600,000 (U.S.). You have received $200,000 (U.S.) of this amount. The balance of $400,000 (U.S.) will be paid to you on the next payroll date. Your bonus for the fiscal year 2006 will be 60% of base salary ($240,000 U.S.) at target and will be a maximum bonus of 200% of target bonus ($480,000 U.S.).
     An annual grant of 50,000 options and a one time special grant of 60,000 options were both granted June 7, 2005. The exercise price for all options is fair market value as at June 7, 2005, determined in accordance with the Leitch option plan. 55,000 of the options granted to you will vest based on time criteria and 55,000 will vest based on achievement of performance targets.
     The 55,000 time vesting options will vest 25% on the third anniversary of the date of grant, 25% on the fourth anniversary of the date of grant and 50% on the fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
     The 55,000 performance vesting options will vest based on the achievement of target operating income before tax of $19,772,000 (excluding extraordinary items) as set out in the approved 2006 financial plan, and shown on the attached three year plan, of which fiscal year 2006 was approved. If the target is met, the performance vested options will vest 1/3 on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the date of grant. If the target is not met, the 55,000 performance vesting options will be forfeited. Options are otherwise granted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Leitch option plan and will be subject to the usual terms of an option grant agreement.
     We value your contribution and look forward to your continued success with the Company.
DC/hahs Encl.
 
August 31, 2005
Mr. Timothy Thorsteinson
Dear Tim:
     As you know, pursuant to an Arrangement Agreement dated August 31, 2005 between Harris Corporation ("Harris") and Leitch Technology Corporation ("Leitch" or the "Corporation"), Harris has agreed to acquire all of the outstanding common shares of Leitch pursuant to a plan of arrangement (the "Arrangement Agreement"). As you are also aware, upon the completion of this acquisition (the "Acquisition"), Leitch will become a private, wholly-owned subsidiary of Harris.
     Harris has required that the Corporation enter into this letter agreement (the "Letter Agreement" or "Agreement") with you as a condition to its execution of the Arrangement Agreement and completion of the Acquisition. This Letter Agreement amends the terms and conditions of your employment agreement with Leitch dated November 17, 2003 (the "Original Agreement", which term includes amendments made prior to the date hereof, including the compensation amendment letter dated June 9, 2005) and is effective immediately following and conditional upon completion of the plan of arrangement contemplated by the Arrangement Agreement (the "Effective Date").
     To be clear, the Original Agreement remains operative and in effect except as modified by the terms and conditions of this Letter Agreement as set out below. Specifically, as a result of the modified terms and conditions set out below, the first three sentences of Section 1, Sections 2 through 8, 14, 15 and 17 of the Original Agreement are no longer of any force or effect.
 
whether completed in a single transaction or series of related transactions, in order to align the operations of the Corporation with those of Harris, achieve business synergies, advance tax planning objectives or to achieve other objectives determined by the Board or the Corporation in its respective sole discretion to be in the best interests of Harris or the Corporation, as the case may be (a "Re-organization"), you will not be required to relocate during the first 365 days of this Agreement nor will your salary or bonus or aggregate level of benefits be reduced. Nevertheless, any Re-organization during the Term that results in any material reduction of your duties, responsibilities, authority, title or reporting relationships shall provide a basis for you to assert a breach of contract, constructive dismissal or similar claim against the Corporation or Harris. In the event that Harris or the Corporation engages in a material breach of the provisions of this Section 2 during the Term, your employment will be deemed to have been terminated without cause and the provisions of Section 15 or 16, whichever is applicable, shall apply. For greater certainty, in the event that you are required by Harris or the Corporation to relocate after the first 365 days of this Agreement, you agree that such relocation will not constitute a breach of this Agreement nor will it provide you with any basis to assert a constructive dismissal claim.
 
Section 12 of the Original Agreement will apply to payments made to you by the Corporation under this Section 7.
 
 
 
     Would you kindly confirm your agreement to the foregoing terms and conditions of your employment with the Corporation by signing the enclosed copy of this letter where indicated and return it to the attention of the undersigned as soon as possible.
Yours very truly,
Per:
I have read, understand and agree to the terms and conditions of my employment set out above as of the 31st day of August, 2005.
Signed:
 
     As a condition of, and in consideration of my employment and the compensation and benefits provided to me by Leitch Technology Corporation, its subsidiaries or affiliated companies controlled by Harris Corporation (collectively referred to herein as "Harris"), Harris and I agree as follows:
     1. 
Definitions.
          (A) "Confidential Information" means any confidential, proprietary or trade secret information, whether or not marked or otherwise designated as confidential, whether in document, electronic or some other form, and includes, without limitation, information that is not publicly known regarding finances, business and marketing plans, proposals, projections, forecasts, existing and prospective customers, vendor identities, employees and compensation, drawings, manuals, inventions, patent applications, process and fabrication information, research plans and results, computer programs, data bases, software flow charts, specifications, technical data, scientific and technical information, test results, market studies, and know-how related to any of the above.
          (B) "Harris Confidential Information" means Confidential Information relating to Harris and including Confidential Information received by Harris from third parties which Harris is obligated to keep confidential.
     2. During my employment with Harris, I will hold in strictest confidence and not use or disclose for the benefit of Harris any Confidential Information of any prior employer or any other employer, person or entity without the express written consent of such employer, person or entity.
Confidential Information Acquired Outside My Employment With Harris.
     3. By signing this Agreement, I also certify that my employment with Harris does not and will not violate the provisions of any agreements or understandings, written or oral, to which I am a party, including any agreements or understandings relating to the protection of Confidential Information and any covenants not to compete. I agree to specifically identify in an attachment to this Agreement any and all agreements or understandings, written or oral, with any prior employer or any other employer, person or entity that may affect or restrict me in my employment with Harris and to attach hereto copies of any such written agreements or understandings.
Employee Representations To Harris.
     4. During and after my employment with Harris, I will maintain in strict confidence and not disclose to any person or entity any Harris Confidential Information except with the prior permission in writing by an authorized representative of Harris. Also, I will not use any Harris Confidential Information for the benefit of anyone other than Harris. Further, I represent that I will not, during my employment with Harris, enter into any agreement requiring the protection of Confidential Information of another person or entity relating to any business or technology of Harris without the prior written consent of Harris.
Confidential Information Acquired During My Employment With Harris.
     5. 
Disclosure Of Inventions And Assignment To Harris.
 
          (A) All inventions (whether patentable or unpatentable), improvements, discoveries and creations (including computer programs) and all copyrights therein, which during the period of my employment by Harris I shall conceive or first reduce to practice alone or in conjunction with others (a) while engaged in any work for Harris or with the use of facilities or materials of Harris, or (b) which relate to any product, process, development or research work, or any other business of Harris, and all records relating thereto (in written, or machine readable, or other form), shall be the property of Harris. I agree to promptly make full written disclosure of all inventions I may conceive or first reduce to practice during the period of my employment by Harris, and to submit such disclosures and related records to the proper designated representative of Harris.
          (B) Further, on request of Harris at any time, I will, without charge but at Harris' expense, execute and deliver applications for patents and copyright registrations in Canada or any foreign countries on such inventions, improvements, discoveries and creations, together with assignment to Harris of my entire interest therein, and I will give to Harris such reasonable assistance as may be requested of me in securing, enforcing and protecting such applications, patents, unpublished copyrights and copyright registrations.
          (C) I agree to identify on a non-confidential basis in a separate attachment my prior inventive activities which I own or control in whole or in part.
This Agreement does not apply to an invention for which no equipment, supplies, facility or trade secret information of Harris was used and which was developed entirely on your own time, unless (a) the invention relates (i) directly to the business of Harris or (ii) to Harris' actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development or (b) the invention results from any work performed by you for Harris.
     6. Upon termination of my employment for any reason, I agree to immediately return all physical or tangible property of Harris including but not limited to credit cards, keys, computers, equipment, supplies, and the originals and copies of any and all records, notebooks, drawings, technical data, photographs, recordings and computer files.
Physical Property Acquired During My Employment.
     7. I understand that my obligations under this Agreement shall survive termination of my employment with Harris, whether such termination is with or without cause. In the event that my employment with Harris is terminated for any reason, I agree to provide, and consent to Harris to provide, a copy of this Agreement to any recruiter or prospective or subsequent employer.
Obligations Survive Termination.
     8. This Agreement may be enforced by Harris' assignees and successors.
Assignment.
     9. I understand and agree that the failure of Harris to insist in any one or more instances upon performance of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver or a relinquishment of any right or claim granted or arising hereunder or of the future performance of any such term, covenant or condition, and such failure shall in no way affect the validity of this Agreement or the rights and obligations
Non-Waiver.
 
hereunder. Further, I understand and agree that, in addition to my obligations under this Agreement, I may have additional obligations to Harris that arise under statutory and/or common law, and that nothing in this Agreement is intended to or is to be construed as a waiver or relinquishment by Harris of any of its statutory and/or common law rights or claims.
     10.
Termination.
     (a)  I understand and agree that Harris may terminate my employment at any time, with notice or pay in lieu of notice, for cause. Cause shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
With Cause
(i) fraud or misappropriation of Harris property or funds;
(ii) dishonesty or allowing my personal interests to conflict with Harris' interests in relation, to any project I am involved in, or any other duty that I owe to Harris; and
(iii) the breach, by me, of any of my covenants or obligations under this agreement, including my duty of confidentiality.
     (b)  I understand and agree that Harris may terminate my employment at any time, without cause, on providing to me the amounts described in Sections 15 and 16 of the Letter Agreement of even date attached herewith.
Without Cause
          I further understand and agree that this notice or pay in lieu of notice and, if applicable, severance pay, is inclusive of all statutory amounts to which I may be entitled under applicable provincial employment standards legislation.
     11. I understand and agree that Harris will suffer irreparable harm in the event that I breach any of my obligations contained in this Agreement and that monetary damages will be inadequate to compensate Harris. I agree that in the event of a breach, or threatened breach, by me of any of the provisions of this Agreement or other obligations which I owe Harris, Harris, in addition to and not in limitation of any other rights, remedies or damages available to it at law or in equity, shall be entitled to an interim injunction, interlocutory injunction and permanent injunction, in order to prevent or to restrain any such breach by me, or by any of my immediate family, partners, co-venturers, employers, employees, servants, agents, representatives and any and all persons directly or indirectly acting for, on behalf of, or with me.
Injunctive Relief.
     12. This Agreement will be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the Province of Ontario and the applicable laws of Canada, without regard to or application of choice of law rules or principles. I hereby expressly consent to the jurisdiction and venue of the provincial and federal courts and tribunals in and for the Province of Ontario in any lawsuit filed by Harris or me relating to this Agreement.
Governing Law And Venue.
     13. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is found by a court to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, then such provision shall not be voided but shall be enforced to the maximum extent permissible under applicable law, and the remainder of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Severability.
     14. My signature below certifies that I have read, understand and agree with the terms and conditions of this Agreement. I have had reasonable opportunity to seek legal advice regarding the terms of this Agreement and I am voluntarily signing this Agreement.
Voluntary Nature Of Agreement.
 
Instructions: After reading this Employee Agreement, the employee should sign two (2) copies in the presence of a Human Resources or other company representative, who will also sign the Agreement as a witness. One signed original will be retained by the employee and one signed original will be maintained in the employee's personnel file.
 
HARRIS LOGO
October 24, 2005
Mr. Timothy Thorsteinson c/o Leitch Technology Corporation 150 Ferrand Drive, Suite 700 Toronto, Ontario M3C 3E5
Re:
Awards of Restricted Stock Units and Performance Share Units
Dear Tim:
     On August 31, 2005 you entered into a letter employment agreement (the "Employment Agreement") with Leitch Technology Corporation. The Employment Agreement provided, among other things, that you would be entitled to awards of performance shares and restricted stock pursuant to the Harris Corporation ("Harris") equity incentive plan (the "Incentive Plan"), subject to final approval by the Harris Board of Directors ("Board").
     Pursuant to this letter agreement (this ""), you and Harris agree that in lieu of granting you the performance shares and restricted stock as provided in Sections 8 and 10, respectively, of the Employment Agreement, Harris will, subject to final approval by the Harris Board, grant you the following awards under the Incentive Plan:
Letter Agreement
     This Letter Agreement is effective immediately following and is conditional upon completion of the plan of arrangement contemplated by the Arrangement Agreement (as defined in the Employment Agreement).
     This Letter Agreement supersedes any prior understandings, agreements or representations by or between you and Harris, which may have related to the subject matter of this Letter Agreement in any way. Effective as of the date of this Letter
 
Agreement, you acknowledge that you have no rights or entitlements under the Employment Agreement with respect to the grant of Performance Share Awards or Restricted Stock. This Letter Agreement does not otherwise impact the terms and conditions of the Employment Agreement.
     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing terms and conditions with Harris by signing the enclosed copy of this letter where indicated and returning it to the attention of the undersigned as soon as possible.
Enclosure
     I have read, understand and agree to the terms and conditions set out above as of the 24 day of October, 2005.
th


