FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20070214171137.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     On February 9, 2007, Howard L. Lance, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Harris Corporation ("" or the ""), adopted a written pre-arranged plan to sell shares of Harris stock. The plan was established as part of Mr. Lance's long-term strategy for asset diversification and financial, estate and tax planning activities. Mr. Lance's plan was established in accordance with the guidelines specified in Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Company's insider trading policy.
Harris
Company
     The plan provides for the potential sale of up to 130,000 shares of Harris stock at predetermined times beginning in March 2007 and ending no later than June 2007, subject to specified limitations and minimum price thresholds. A portion of the shares expected to be sold will be acquired upon the exercise of employee stock options. Mr. Lance's ownership interest in Harris is considerably in excess of the Company's stock ownership guidelines. The transactions under the plan will be disclosed publicly through Form 4 and Form 144 filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     Rule 10b5-1 permits individuals to establish pre-arranged stock trading plans when they are not in possession of material non-public information, and allows such pre-arranged trades to be made pursuant to the plan regardless of any subsequent material non-public information that an individual may receive. Using these plans, individuals can prudently and gradually diversify their investment portfolios over time.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 14, 2007


