FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20070228133332.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On February 23, 2007, the Board of Directors (the "") of Harris Corporation ("" or the "") amended the Company's By-Laws effective immediately to: (i) provide that each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast (meaning the number of shares voted "for" a nominee must exceed the number of shares voted "against" such nominee) in uncontested elections of directors, although the Company will retain its current plurality voting standard in contested elections of directors (such changes are reflected in Article III, Section 2 of the By-Laws, as amended and restated); and (ii) provide that advance notice of director nominations by shareholders include all information concerning the nominee as would be required under the proxy rules (such changes are reflected in Article II, Section 8(b) of the By-Laws, as amended and restated). The foregoing summary of such amendments is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of Harris' By-Laws, as amended and restated effective February 23, 2007, filed as Exhibit 3(ii) to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated in this Item 5.03 by reference.
Board
Harris
Company
     In connection with the amendment to the Company's By-Laws establishing a majority vote standard for the election of directors in uncontested elections, Harris also amended its Corporate Governance Principles (which are available on the Company's Corporate Governance website) to: (i) establish a policy that any nominee in an uncontested election who receives a greater number of "against" votes than "for" votes shall promptly tender his or her resignation for consideration by the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board; and (ii) provide that the Corporate Governance Committee will make a recommendation to the Board regarding action to be taken with respect to any such offer to resign, which Board action shall generally be taken within 90 days following certification of the vote. The foregoing summary of such resignation policy is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of such policy filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated in this Item 5.03 by reference.
     The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 28, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 3(ii)
1025 West NASA Boulevard Melbourne, FL USA 32919 phone 1-321-727-9100 fax 1-321-727-9344
www.harris.com
 
     The registered office of the Company shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware.
     The Company may also have offices at such other places as the Board of Directors from time to time may determine or the business of the Company may require.
     . All meetings of shareholders for the election of directors or for any other purposes whatsoever shall be held at the office of the Company in the City of Wilmington, Delaware, or elsewhere within or without the State of Delaware, as may be decided upon from time to time by the Board of Directors and indicated in the notice of the meeting.
Section 1. Place of Meeting
     . The annual meeting of the shareholders shall be held on such date as the Board of Directors may determine and at the time as shall be decided by the Board of Directors and indicated in the notice of the meeting. Directors shall be elected thereat and such other business transacted as may be specified in the notice of the meeting, or as may be properly brought before the meeting.
Section 2. Annual Meeting
     . Special meetings of the shareholders may be held on any business day when called by the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors, or a majority of the full Board of Directors acting without a meeting.
Section 3. Special Meetings
     . A written or printed notice of every annual or special meeting of the shareholders stating the time and place and the purposes thereof shall be given to each shareholder entitled to vote thereat and to each shareholder entitled to notice as provided by law, which notice shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the date of the meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to each shareholder at such shareholder's address as it appears on the records of the Company. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to give written notice of the annual meeting, and of each special meeting when requested so to do by the officer or directors calling such meeting. Any shareholder may waive in writing any notice required to be given by law or under these By-Laws and by attendance or voting at any meeting without protesting the lack of proper notice shall be deemed to have waived notice thereof.
Section 4. Notice of Meetings
 
     . A complete list of the shareholders entitled to vote at each meeting of shareholders, arranged in alphabetical order, with the address of each and the number of voting shares held by each, shall be prepared by or at the instance of the Secretary and made available at the location where the meeting is to be held, at least ten (10) days before every meeting, and shall at all times during the usual hours for business in said ten (10) day period and during the time of said meeting be open to examination by any shareholder.
Section 5. Shareholder List
     . At all meetings of shareholders, only such shareholders shall be entitled to vote, in person or by proxy, who appear upon the records of the Company as the holders of shares at the time possessing voting power, or if a record date be fixed as hereinafter provided, those appearing as such on such record date. Each shareholder entitled to vote at a meeting of shareholders may authorize another person or persons to act for such shareholder by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three (3) years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A shareholder may authorize another person or persons to act for such shareholder as proxy by executing a writing authorizing such person or persons to act for such shareholder as proxy or by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided that any such telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission was authorized by the shareholder.
Section 6. Voting and Proxies
     . Except as may otherwise be required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws, the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote at a shareholders' meeting shall constitute a quorum to hold such meeting; provided, however, that any meeting, whether or not a quorum is present or otherwise, may, by vote of the holders of a majority of the voting shares represented thereat, adjourn from time to time and from place to place in the county wherein said meeting was originally called without notice other than by announcement at such meeting.
Section 7. Quorum and Adjournments
     . (a) The matters to be considered and brought before any annual or special meeting of shareholders of the Company shall be limited to only such matters, including the nomination and election of directors, as shall be brought properly before such meeting in compliance with the procedures set forth in this Section 8.
Section 8. Advance Notice of Shareholder Nominees for Director and Other Shareholder Proposals
     (b) For any matter to be properly brought before any annual meeting of shareholders, the matter must be (i) specified in the notice of annual meeting given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (ii) otherwise brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) brought before the annual meeting in the manner specified in this Section 8(b) by a shareholder of record entitled to vote at the annual meeting of shareholders on such matter. In addition to any other requirements under applicable law and the Certificate of Incorporation and these By-Laws, persons nominated by shareholders for election as directors of the Company and any other proposals by shareholders shall be properly brought before the meeting only if notice of any such matter to be presented by a
 
shareholder at such meeting of shareholders (the "Shareholder Notice") shall be delivered to the Secretary of the Company at the principal executive office of the Company not less than ninety (90) nor more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the first anniversary date of the annual meeting for the preceding year; provided, however, if and only if the annual meeting is not scheduled to be held within a period that commences thirty (30) days before such anniversary date and ends thirty (30) days after such anniversary date (an annual meeting date outside such period being referred to herein as an "Other Meeting Date"), such Shareholder Notice shall be given in the manner provided herein by the later of the close of business on (i) the date ninety (90) days prior to such Other Meeting Date or (ii) the tenth day following the date such Other Annual Meeting Date is first publicly announced or disclosed. Any shareholder desiring to nominate any person or persons (as the case may be) for election as a director or directors of the Company shall deliver, as part of such Shareholder Notice, a statement in writing setting forth (i) the name of the person or persons to be nominated; (ii) the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the Company owned of record and beneficially by each such person, as reported to such shareholder by such nominee(s); (iii) any other information regarding each such person as would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement concerning the election of directors filed pursuant to Regulation 14A promulgated pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"); (iv) each such person's signed consent to serve as a director of the Company if elected; and (v) such shareholder's name and address and the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the Company owned of record and beneficially by such shareholder. Any shareholder who gives a Shareholder Notice of any matter proposed to be brought before the meeting (other than a nomination of directors) shall deliver, as part of such Shareholder Notice, the text of the proposal to be presented and a brief written statement of the reasons why such shareholder favors the proposal and setting forth such shareholder's name and address, the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the Company owned of record and beneficially by such shareholder and, if applicable, any material interest of such shareholder in the matter proposed (other than as a shareholder). As used herein, shares "beneficially owned" shall mean all shares which such person is deemed to beneficially own pursuant to Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act. If a shareholder is entitled to vote only for a specific class or category of directors at a meeting (annual or special), such shareholder's right to nominate one or more individuals for election as a director at the meeting shall be limited to such class or category of directors.
     Notwithstanding anything in this Section 8(b) to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Company at the next annual meeting is increased and either all of the nominees for director at the next annual meeting or the size of the increased Board of Directors is not publicly announced or disclosed by the Company at least one hundred (100) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a Shareholder Notice shall also be considered timely hereunder, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary of the Company at the principal executive office of the Company not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the first date all of such nominees or the size of the increased Board of Directors shall have been publicly announced or disclosed.
 
     (c) Except as provided in the immediately following sentence, only such matters shall be properly brought before a special meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Company's notice of such meeting. In the event the Company calls a special meeting of shareholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any shareholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Company's notice of meeting, if the Shareholder Notice required by Section 8(b) hereof shall be delivered to the Secretary of the Company at the principal executive office of the Company not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which the date of the special meeting and either the names of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting or the number of directors to be elected is publicly announced or disclosed.
     (d) For purposes of this Section 8, a matter shall be deemed to have been "publicly announced or disclosed" if such matter is disclosed in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or a comparable national news or wire service or in a document publicly filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     (e) In no event shall the adjournment of an annual meeting or special meeting or the postponement of any meeting that does not require a change in the record date for such meeting, or any announcement thereof, commence a new period for the giving of notice as provided in this Section 8. This Section 8 shall not (i) affect the rights of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals made pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) apply to the election of directors selected by or pursuant to the provisions of Article FOURTH, Section 3 of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock of the Company having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect directors under specified circumstances.
     (f) The person presiding at any meeting of shareholders, in addition to making any other determinations that may be appropriate to the conduct of the meeting, shall have the power and duty to determine whether notice of nominees and other matters proposed to be brought before a meeting has been duly given in the manner provided in this Section 8 and, if not so given, shall direct and declare at the meeting that such nominees and other matters are out of order and shall not be considered.
     . The Board of Directors of the Company may adopt by resolution such rules, regulations and procedures for the conduct of meetings of shareholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with applicable law and such rules and regulations adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of each meeting of shareholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts, including causing an adjournment of such meeting, as, in the judgment of such Chairman, are appropriate. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the Chairman of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (a) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting, including fixing the time for opening and closing the polls for voting on each matter; (b) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (c) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to shareholders of record of the Company, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the Chairman shall permit; (d) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the
Section 9. Conduct of Meetings
 
time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (e) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. Unless, and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the meeting, meetings of shareholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with rules of parliamentary procedure.
     . Meetings of shareholders shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or in his or her absence by the Chief Executive Officer, or in the absence of the foregoing persons by a Chairman designated by the Board of Directors, or, in the absence of any such designation, by a Chairman chosen at the meeting. The Secretary, or in the absence of the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, shall act as the secretary of the meeting, but in the absence of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary, the Chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Section 10. Organization of Meetings
     . The Board of Directors shall consist of not less than eight nor more than thirteen members as may be determined by the Board of Directors. After any such determination, the number so determined shall continue as the authorized number of members of the Board until the same shall be changed as aforesaid. Directors need not be shareholders.
Section 1. Number
     . Except as may be otherwise required by the Certificate of Incorporation, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast (meaning the number of shares voted "for" a nominee must exceed the number of shares voted "against" such nominee) at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided that the directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast (instead of by votes cast for or against a nominee) at any meeting at which a quorum is present for which (i) the Secretary of the Company receives a notice in compliance with the applicable requirements for shareholder nominations for director set forth in these By-Laws and (ii) such proposed nomination has not been withdrawn by such shareholder on or prior to the tenth day preceding the date the Company first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the shareholders.
Section 2. Manner of Election
     . Each director shall hold office until the annual meeting for the year in which his or her term expires and until his or her successor shall be elected and qualified; subject, however, to prior resignation, death or removal as provided by law. Any director may resign at any time by oral statement to that effect made at a meeting of the Board of Directors, to be effective upon its acceptance by the Board, or in writing to that effect delivered to the Secretary, to be effective upon its acceptance or at the time specified in such writing. Any vacancy on the Board of Directors that results from an increase in the number of directors shall be filled by a majority of the Board of Directors then in office, and any other vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors shall be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. Any director elected to fill a vacancy not resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall have the same remaining term as that of his predecessor.
Section 3. Tenure; Vacancies
     . Immediately after each annual meeting of the shareholders or special meeting held in lieu thereof, the newly elected Board of Directors, if a
Section 4. Organization Meeting
 
quorum is present, shall hold an organization meeting for the purpose of electing officers and transacting any other business. Notice of such meeting need not be given. If, for any reason, said organization meeting is not held at such time, a special meeting for such purpose shall be held as soon thereafter as practicable.
     . Regular meetings of the Board of Directors for the transaction of any business may be held at such times and places as may be determined by the Board of Directors. The Secretary shall give to each director at least five (5) days written notice of each such meeting.
Section 5. Regular Meetings
     . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time and place upon call by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or a majority of the Directors. Notice of each such meeting shall be given to each director by letter, telegram or telephone or in person not less than two (2) days prior to such meeting; provided, however, that such notice shall be deemed to have been waived by the directors attending or voting at any such meeting, without protesting the lack of proper notice, and may be waived in writing or by telegram by any director either before or after such meeting. Unless otherwise indicated in the notice thereof, any business may be transacted at such meeting.
Section 6. Special Meetings
     . At all meetings of the Board of Directors a majority of the directors in office at the time shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but in no case shall such quorum be less than one-third of the total authorized number of directors.
Section 7. Quorum
     . If so determined by the Board of Directors, all or any members of the Board of Directors or of any committee of the Board who are not Company employees shall be compensated for their services in such capacities either a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board or of such committee or such other amount as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. Compensation may be paid in cash and in the Company's stock and stock equivalents. Directors may be reimbursed for expenses reasonably incurred by them in attending such meetings.
Section 8. Compensation
     The Board of Directors may, by resolution or resolutions passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of two or more of the directors of the Company, which to the extent provided in said resolution or resolutions shall have and may exercise the powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Company and may have power to authorize the seal of the Company to be affixed to all papers which may require it. Such committee or committees shall have such name or names as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors.
 
     . The officers of the Company shall be elected by the Board of Directors at their organization meeting or any other meeting. The Board of Directors shall elect the executive officers of the Company which may include a Chairman of the Board, President, and one or more Vice Presidents (any one or more of whom may be designated as Executive Vice Presidents, or as Senior Vice Presidents or by any other designations). In addition thereto, the officers shall include a Controller or Principal Accounting Officer, a General Counsel, a Secretary and a Treasurer. In their discretion the Board of Directors may elect one or more Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers and any other additional officers. The Chairman of the Board shall be elected from among the directors. The other officers may but need not be elected from among the directors. Any two offices may be held by the same person, but in any case where the action of more than one officer is required no one person shall act in more than one capacity.
Section 1. Officers Designated
     . The officers of the Company shall hold office until the next organization meeting of the Board of Directors and until their respective successors are chosen and qualified, except in case of resignation, death or removal. The Board of Directors may remove any officer at any time with or without cause by the vote of the majority of the directors in office at the time. A vacancy in any office may be filled by election by the Board of Directors.
Section 2. Tenure of Office
     . The powers and duties of the officers shall be exercised in all cases subject to such directions as the Board of Directors may see fit to give. The respective powers and duties hereinafter set forth are subject to alteration by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is also authorized to delegate the duties of any officer to any other officer, employee or committee and to require the performance of duties in addition to those provided for herein. Subject to such directions, if any, as the Board of Directors may give from time to time, the chief executive officers of the Company are authorized to establish and to modify from time to time an organization plan defining the respective duties and functions of the officers of the Company.
Section 3. Powers and Duties of Officers in General
     . The Chairman of the Board shall preside at meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors.
Section 4. Chairman of the Board
     . The Chief Executive Officer shall be either the Chairman of the Board and/or the President, as the Board of Directors so designates, and he or she shall have general responsibility for the major functions of the business of the Company and shall initiate and develop broad Company policies.
Section 5. Chief Executive Officer
     . In the absence or disability of the Chief Executive Officer, the President shall perform the Chief Executive Officer's duties. In the absence or disability of the Chief Executive Officer and the President, the Vice Presidents, in the order designated by the Board of Directors, shall perform the Chief Executive Officer's duties. If so determined by the Board of Directors, one Vice President may be designated as manager of specific sectors, divisions, districts or such other unit or as being in charge of specific functions, another as Vice President in Charge of Sales, and other Vice Presidents as
Section 6. President; Vice Presidents
 
managers of specified divisions or sales districts of the Company or as being in charge of specified functions.
     . The Controller or Principal Accounting Officer, General Counsel, the Secretary, and the Treasurer shall perform such duties as are indicated by their respective titles, subject to the provisions of Section 3 of this Article. The Secretary shall have the custody of the corporate seal.
Section 7. Controller or Principal Accounting Officer, General Counsel, Secretary, and Treasurer
     . All other officers shall have such powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, or, in the absence of their action, by the chief executive officers of the Company or by the respective officers having supervision over them.
Section 8. Other Officers
     . The Board of Directors is authorized to determine, or to provide the method of determining, or to empower a committee of its members to determine, the compensation of all officers.
Section 9. Compensation
     . If so requested and authorized by the Board of Directors, the Company shall furnish a fidelity bond in such sum and with such security as the Board of Directors may require.
Section 10. Bond
     . The Board of Directors is authorized to determine or provide the method of determining the manner in which deeds, contracts and other obligations and instruments of the Company shall be signed. However, persons doing business with the Company shall be entitled to rely upon the action of the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Secretary, the Treasurer, the Controller or Principal Accounting Officer or General Counsel in executing contracts and other obligations and instruments, of the Company as having been duly authorized. The Board of Directors of the Company is authorized to designate or provide the method of designating depositaries of the funds of the Company and to determine or provide the method of determining the manner in which checks, notes, bills of exchange and similar instruments shall be signed, countersigned or endorsed.
Section 11. Signing Checks and Other Instruments
     The Company shall indemnify to the full extent permitted by law any person made or threatened to be made a party to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the Company, is or was a director, officer, trustee, member, stockholder, partner, incorporator or liquidator of a Subsidiary of the Company, or serves or served at the request of the Company as a director, officer, trustee, member, stockholder, partner, incorporator or liquidator of or in any other capacity for any other enterprise. Expenses, including attorneys' fees, incurred by any such person in defending any such action, suit or proceeding shall be paid or reimbursed by the Company promptly upon demand by such person and, if any such demand is made in advance of the final disposition of any such action, suit or proceeding, promptly upon receipt by the Company of an undertaking of such person to repay such expenses if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified
 
by the Company. The rights provided to any person by this by-law shall be enforceable against the Company by such person, who shall be presumed to have relied upon it in serving or continuing to serve as a director or officer or in such other capacity as provided above. In addition, the rights provided to any person by this by-law shall survive the termination of such person as any such director, officer, trustee, member, stockholder, partner, incorporator or liquidator and, insofar as such person served at the request of the Company as a director, officer, trustee, member, stockholder, partner, incorporator or liquidator of or in any other capacity for any other enterprise, shall survive the termination of such request as to service prior to termination of such request. No amendment of this by-law shall impair the rights of any person arising at any time with respect to events occurring prior to such amendment.
     Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article VI, except for proceedings to enforce rights provided in this Article VI, the Company shall not be obligated under this Article VI to provide any indemnification or any payment or reimbursement of expenses to any director, officer or other person in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person (which shall not include counterclaims or crossclaims initiated by others) unless the Board of Directors has authorized or consented to such proceeding (or part thereof) in a resolution adopted by the Board.
     For purposes of this by-law, the term "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other entity in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, a majority of the economic or voting ownership interest; the term "other enterprise" shall include any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, association or other unincorporated organization or other entity and any employee benefit plan; the term "officer," when used with respect to the Company, shall refer to any officer elected by or appointed pursuant to authority granted by the Board of Directors of the Company pursuant to Article V of these By-Laws, when used with respect to a Subsidiary or other enterprise that is a corporation, shall refer to any person elected or appointed pursuant to the by-laws of such Subsidiary or other enterprise or chosen in such manner as is prescribed by the by-laws of such Subsidiary or other enterprise or determined by the Board of Directors of such Subsidiary or other enterprise, and when used with respect to a Subsidiary or other enterprise that is not a corporation or is organized in a foreign jurisdiction, the term "officer" shall include in addition to any officer of such entity, any person serving in a similar capacity or as the manager of such entity; service "at the request of the Company" shall include service as a director or officer of the Company which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director or officer with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries shall be deemed to be indemnifiable expenses; and action by a person with respect to an employee benefit plan which such person reasonably believes to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of such plan shall be deemed to be action not opposed to the best interests of the Company.
     To the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, the Company may provide to (i) any one or more employees and other agents of the Company, (ii) any one or more officers, employees and other agents of any Subsidiary and (iii) any one or more directors, officers, employees and other agents of any other enterprise, rights of indemnification and to receive payment or reimbursement of expenses, including attorneys' fees, that are similar to the rights conferred in this Article VI on directors and officers of the
 
Company or any Subsidiary or other enterprise. Any such rights shall have the same force and effect as they would have if they were conferred in this Article VI.
     Nothing in this Article VI shall limit the power of the Company or the Board of Directors to provide rights of indemnification and to make payment and reimbursement of expenses, including attorneys' fees, to directors, officers, employees, agents and other persons otherwise than pursuant to this Article VI.
     The corporate seal, circular in form, shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Company and the words "Corporate SealDelaware."
     The Board of Directors may close the stock transfer books of the Company for a period not exceeding sixty (60) days preceding the date of any meeting of the shareholders, or the date for the payment of any dividend, or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of shares shall go into effect; provided, however, that in lieu of closing the stock transfer books as aforesaid, the Board of Directors may fix in advance a date, not exceeding sixty (60) days preceding the date of any meeting of shareholders, or the date for the payment of any dividend, or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of shares shall go into effect, as a record date for the determination of the shareholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, any such meeting and any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any such dividend, or to any such allotment of rights, or to exercise the rights in respect of any such change, conversion or exchange of shares, and in such case such shareholders, and only such shareholders as shall be shareholders of record on the date so fixed, shall be entitled to such notice of, and to vote at, such meeting and any adjournment thereof, or to receive payment of such dividend or to receive such allotment of rights or to exercise such rights as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the Company after any such record date fixed as aforesaid.
     . The shares of stock of the Company shall be represented by certificates in such form as the appropriate officers of the Company may from time to time prescribe; provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of stock of the Company shall be uncertificated shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing or the adoption of such a resolution or resolutions by the Board of Directors, each holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled, upon request, to a certificate representing such shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to any share represented by a certificate theretofore issued until such certificate is surrendered to the Company. Share certificates shall be numbered and registered in a share register as they are issued. Share certificates shall exhibit the name of the registered
Section 1. Certificates; Uncertificated Shares
 
holder and the number and class of shares and the series, if any, represented thereby and the par value of each such share or a statement that each such share is without par value, as the case may be. Except as otherwise provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares and the rights and obligations of the holders of shares represented by certificates of the same class and series shall be identical.
     . Every share certificate shall be signed, in the name of the Company, by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President and countersigned, in the name of the Company, by the Corporate Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer and shall be sealed with the Company's corporate seal. Such signatures and seal may be facsimile, engraved or printed. The Board of Directors may appoint one or more transfer agents or transfer clerks and one or more registrars and may require any or all certificates representing shares of stock to bear the signature or signatures of any of them. Where a certificate is signed (a) by a transfer agent or an assistant or co-transfer agent, (b) by a transfer clerk or (c) by a registrar or co-registrar, the signature thereon of any authorized signatory may be facsimile. Where a certificate is signed by a registrar or co-registrar, the signature of any transfer agent or assistant or co-transfer agent thereon may be by facsimile signature of the authorized signatory of such transfer agent or assistant or co-transfer agent. In case any officer or officers of the Company who have signed, or whose facsimile, engraved or printed signature or signatures have been used on, any such certificate or certificates shall cease to be such officer or officers, whether because of death, resignation or otherwise, before such certificate or certificates have been delivered by the Company, such certificate or certificates may, nevertheless, be issued and delivered as though the person or persons who signed such certificate or certificates or whose facsimile, engraved or printed signature or signatures have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer or officers of the Company.
Section 2. Signatures on Certificates
     . In case of loss, theft or destruction of any certificate representing shares of stock or other securities of the Company, another may be issued, or uncertificated shares may be issued, in its place upon satisfactory proof of such loss, theft or destruction and upon the giving of a satisfactory bond of indemnity to the Company and to the transfer agents, transfer clerks and registrars, if any, of such stock or other securities, as the case may be.
Section 3. Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates; Issuance of New Certificates
     . Subject to valid transfer restrictions and stop-transfer orders, upon surrender to the Company, or a transfer agent, transfer clerk or registrar of the Company, of a certificate representing shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, the Company may issue a new certificate or new equivalent uncertificated shares, as the case may be, or in the case of uncertificated shares, upon request, a certificate representing, or other evidence of, such new equivalent uncertificated shares, to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books. Upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the holder of uncertificated shares, the Company shall cancel such uncertificated shares and issue new equivalent uncertificated shares, or, upon such holder's request, a certificate representing, or other evidence of, such new equivalent uncertificated shares, to the person entitled thereto, and record the transaction upon its books. In no event shall a transfer of shares affect the right of the Company to pay any dividend upon the stock to the holder of record thereof for all purposes, and no transfer shall be valid, except between the parties thereto, until such transfer shall have been made upon the books of the Company.
Section 4. Transfer of Shares
 
     . The Company and its transfer agents, transfer clerks and registrars, if any, shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares as the holder in fact thereof and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claims to, or interest in, such shares on the part of any other person and shall not be liable for any registration or transfer of shares which are registered, or to be registered, in the name of a fiduciary or the nominee of a fiduciary unless made with actual knowledge that a fiduciary, or nominee of a fiduciary, is committing a breach of trust in requesting such registration or transfer, or with knowledge of such facts that its participation therein amounts to bad faith.
Section 5. Registered Shareholders
     The fiscal year of the Company shall end on the Friday nearest June 30 unless and until the Board of Directors shall otherwise determine.
     These By-Laws may be made or altered in any respect in whole or in part by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote thereon at any annual or special meeting of the shareholders, if notice of the proposed alteration or change to be made is properly brought before the meeting under these By-Laws. The By-Laws may also be made or altered in any respect in whole or in part, by the affirmative vote of the majority of the directors then comprising the Board of Directors.

 
Exhibit 99.1
Excerpt from Harris Corporation Corporate Governance Principles
XI. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS.
     Any nominee in an uncontested election who receives a greater number of "against" votes than "for" votes shall promptly tender his or her resignation following certification of the vote. A contested election shall be an election for which (i) the Secretary of the Corporation receives a notice in compliance with the applicable requirements for shareholder nominations for director set forth in the Corporation's By-Laws and (ii) such proposed nomination has not been withdrawn by such shareholder on or prior to the tenth day preceding the date the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the shareholders. The Corporate Governance Committee shall consider the resignation offer and shall recommend to the Board the action to be taken. Any director whose resignation is under consideration shall not participate in the Corporate Governance Committee recommendation regarding whether to accept the resignation. The Board shall take action within 90 days following certification of the vote, unless such action would cause the Corporation to fail to comply with any requirement of the New York Stock Exchange or any rule or regulation promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in which event the Corporation shall take action as promptly as is practicable while continuing to meet such requirements. The Board will promptly disclose its decision and the reasons therefore, in a Form 8-K furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.


