FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20070130160215.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     
The information contained in this Current Report on
Form 8-K
, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 of
Form 8-K
and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section. The information contained in this Current Report on
Form 8-K
, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     On January 30, 2007, Harris Corporation ("") issued a press release announcing, among other things, its results of operations and financial condition as of and for its second quarter of fiscal 2007 and revised guidance regarding expected earnings for fiscal 2007. The full text of the press release and related financial tables is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Harris
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information.
     The press release includes a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures, including net income and net income (or earnings) per diluted share for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 and earnings per share guidance for fiscal 2007, in each case excluding certain costs, expenses, charges, gains or losses. A "non-GAAP financial measure" is generally defined as a numerical measure of a company's historical or future performance that excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments, so as to be different from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (""). Net income and net income (or earnings) per diluted share, excluding the impact of: (i) costs and charges associated with the combination of our Microwave Communications business and Stratex Networks, Inc. (the ""); (ii) the expected integration costs and the gain associated with the Combination; and (iii) the impairment and related charges to our investment in Terion are financial measures that are not defined by GAAP and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, income, income per diluted share, and other financial measures on a GAAP basis. Harris has included in its press release a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in the press release to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
GAAP
Combination
     Harris management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that could have a disproportionate positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Harris Management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze trends in Harris' business and to better understand our performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management compensation purposes. Please refer to our financial statements and accompanying footnotes for additional information and for a presentation of results in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
     The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
     99.1  Press Release, issued by Harris Corporation on January 30, 2007 (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01).
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 30, 2007
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 Harris Corporation (NYSE:HRS) today reported revenue for the second quarter of fiscal year 2007 increased 21 percent to $1.016 billion, compared to $842 million in the prior-year quarter. Sequentially, revenue was up 7 percent compared to a strong first quarter. GAAP net income increased to $94.0 million or $.67 per diluted share. Non-GAAP net income, excluding charges, was $95.4 million, or $.68 per diluted share, representing a 32 percent increase compared to non-GAAP income of $72.5 million, or $.52 per diluted share, in the prior-year quarter. The reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures is provided on Tables 5 and 6 along with accompanying notes.
MELBOURNE, Florida, January 30, 2007
"Excellent financial results in the quarter were once again driven by both organic revenue growth and strong operating performance," said Howard L. Lance, chairman, president, and chief executive officer. "Results in the RF Communications segment continued to benefit from robust demand for our Falcon II and Falcon III tactical radio systems from both domestic and international customers. The Government Communications Systems and Microwave Communications segments delivered strong growth in revenue and solid operating performance.
"Last week we completed the planned combination of our Microwave Communications Division with Stratex Networks, creating an exciting new company and enhancing Harris shareholder value. Harris Stratex Networks (NASDAQ:HSTX), with latest 12 months revenue of approximately $650 million, is now the largest independent global provider of wireless transmission network solutions." Harris owns 56 percent of the new company. The combination resulted in a gain to Harris, which will be recorded in the third quarter, estimated at $.92 per diluted share. Excluding this one-time gain and anticipated integration and acquisition costs estimated at $.16 per diluted share, the combination is expected to be neutral to Harris Corporation earnings per share in fiscal year 2007 and accretive by approximately $.07 per diluted share in fiscal year 2008.
Beginning with the fiscal year third quarter, results of Harris Stratex Networks will be consolidated in Harris Corporation's financial results, with an elimination of the minority interest. Harris Stratex Networks management will host a conference call and webcast today at 5:30 p.m., Eastern Time, to discuss financial results for the December quarter and pro forma information for the new company. Information about the call and webcast is available at and .
www.harris.com
www.harrisstratex.com
 
Government Communications Systems
Revenue in the Government Communications Systems segment increased 9 percent to $484 million in the second quarter and was higher in all business areas. Operating income was $55.8 million, and operating margin was 11.5 percent, reflecting continuing excellent program performance.
Year-over-year revenue growth drivers in the second quarter included:
RF Communications
Revenue in the RF Communications segment was $286 million in the second quarter, a 58 percent increase compared to the year-ago quarter, and an 8 percent sequential increase compared to the first quarter. Operating income for the segment rose 56 percent to $95.7 million.
Strength in both U.S. and international markets continues to reflect worldwide demand and customer preference for Harris high-performance, feature-rich Falcon II and Falcon III tactical radios. Harris received significant domestic orders in the quarter from the U.S. Marine Corp, U.S. Navy, and U.S. Army. International orders nearly doubled in the quarter compared to the prior-year quarter, with significant orders from Romania, the Netherlands, Kenya, and Tajikistan. The government of Canada ordered radios for its NATO forces in Afghanistan, where the Harris Falcon II AN/PRC-117-F radios are being used to provide the primary long-range communications backbone.
 
Shipments to date of the new Falcon III multiband handheld radios  the AN/PRC-152  and its vehicular version  the AN/VRC-110  reached $130 million. These radios are now in service with the Army, Navy, Air Force, and other U.S. government agencies, and are performing well.
Microwave Communications
Revenue in the Microwave Communications segment increased 14 percent to $101 million in the second quarter and orders once again exceeded sales. Operating income in the quarter was $8.1 million, which was impacted by $1.7 million of costs associated with the Harris Stratex Networks combination. Non-GAAP operating margin, excluding these costs, rose to 9.7 percent. Margins continued to be favorably impacted by the new TRuepoint family of products, which represented more than 50 percent of second quarter total revenue.
Increased demand in North America came from both wireless service providers and private networks. Mobile operators are beginning to substitute microwave wireless capabilities for leased lines to reduce network operating costs. In addition, they are expanding their geographic footprint and increasing capacity to handle high-bandwidth voice, data and video services. Private network demand also increased significantly, driven by the need for higher bandwidth and by the availability of Federal grant dollars to improve interoperability of public safety networks.
International demand remained strong as well. Orders significantly outpaced sales, reflecting the continued expansion of the global customer base. Europe, the Middle East and Africa continued to dominate orders, driven by the deployment of 3G services and network expansions. Major orders in the quarter were received from network operators in Romania, Nigeria, Burkina Faso, Gabon, Benin, Niger, Togo, Kenya, Portugal, Indonesia, Russia, Brazil and Mexico.
Broadcast Communications
Revenue in the Broadcast Communications segment was $155 million in the second quarter, up 14 percent compared to the prior-year quarter. Revenue benefited from the fiscal year 2006 acquisitions of Leitch Technology, Aastra Digital Video, and Optimal Solutions, Inc. Sequentially, revenue increased 11 percent compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2007. Orders increased 29 percent to $158 million, compared to the prior-year quarter, and were higher in all business areas except TV transmission systems. Operating income was $13.0 million in the second quarter, and operating margin was 8.4 percent.
Revenue growth was led by double-digit increases in the Video Distribution area as global customers continue to upgrade to digital and high-definition (HD) broadcast operations. Radio Transmission Systems revenue was also higher, led by shipments of HD Radio systems in
 
North America. TV Transmission Systems and Software Systems revenue declined compared to the prior-year quarter.
Operating income in the second quarter was negatively impacted by continued lower-than-expected revenue in the segment's TV Transmission Systems and Software Systems business areas, increased costs in the Software Systems business and increased amortization. As a result of the weak performance and near-term order outlook for TV Transmission Systems, a number of cost-reduction actions are being implemented beginning immediately. Harris expects to incur related charges of approximately $5 million in the second half of fiscal year 2007 for severance and facility exit costs. These cost-reduction actions are expected to result in annual savings of approximately $10 million in fiscal year 2008.
Outlook and Guidance
The company increased its non-GAAP earnings guidance for fiscal year 2007 from a previous range of $2.70 to $2.80 per diluted share to a new range of $2.75 to $2.85 per diluted share. Revised fiscal year 2007 non-GAAP earnings guidance represents a year-over-year increase of 26 percent compared to non-GAAP earnings for fiscal year 2006. Estimated fiscal year 2007 GAAP earnings guidance is in a range from $3.39 to $3.49 per diluted share resulting from the cumulative impact of the Microwave transaction, cost-reduction actions, and other factors. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures is provided on Table 7 and in the accompanying notes.
"Harris delivered another period of strong orders, revenue and earnings performance in the second quarter," Lance said. "We are well positioned to achieve continued growth in the second half of fiscal year 2007 and have set the stage for solid momentum into fiscal year 2008. The RF Communications segment continues to lead with excellent performance, and we have taken actions to further advance that leadership with additional manufacturing capacity to react to immediate military requirements, expansion into adjacent markets, and the accelerated introduction of new products. The Government Communications Systems segment has re-established a solid growth trajectory as a result of winning new business and through excellent performance on critical programs. In our commercial broadcast and telecom segments, we are utilizing strategic acquisitions along with organic growth activities to increase market share. In both of these businesses, our recent actions are aimed at changing the game' and positioning Harris as the clear supplier of choice for global customers."
Harris will host a conference call today at 4:30 p.m., Eastern Time, to discuss the above items. Interested individuals are invited to listen to the call by using a dial-in number: (719) 457-2637, access code: 4590774. The conference call also will be broadcast live via the Internet at
 
. A replay of the teleconference will be available beginning at 8:00 p.m., Eastern Time, and will run until midnight, Eastern Time, on Tuesday, February 6. To access the replay, please call (719) 457-0820, access code: 4590774. A recording of the call will also be available on the Harris website beginning at 7:00 p.m., Eastern Time, on January 30.
http://www.harris.com
Harris is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 150 countries. Headquartered in Melbourne, Florida, the company has annual sales of about $4 billion and more than 14,000 employees  including more than 6,000 engineers and scientists. Harris is dedicated to developing best-in-class assured communications products, systems, and services for global markets, including government communications, RF communications, broadcast communications, and wireless transmission network solutions. Additional information about Harris Corporation is available at .
www.harris.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release contains non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the SEC, including net income and earnings per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 excluding the impact of costs associated with the combination of our Harris Microwave Communications business and Stratex Networks, Inc. and earnings per share guidance for fiscal 2007 also excluding the impact of integration activities and the gain associated with the combination of our Harris Microwave Communications business and Stratex Networks, Inc., the impairment in our Terion investment and charges related to cost-reduction actions in our Broadcast Communications segment. Harris management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that may, or could, have a disproportionately positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze Harris business trends and to better understand the company's performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting, and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management compensation purposes. Any analysis of non-GAAP financial measures should be used only in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP.
Forward-Looking Statement
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations, assumptions, and estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Such statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements in this release include but are not limited to: earnings guidance for fiscal 2007; the potential value of contract awards and potential contract awards; the impact of the combination of the Microwave Communications Division and Stratex Networks; the expected benefits of cost reduction actions; and statements regarding outlook, including expected revenue growth. The Company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results and future trends to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. The Company's consolidated results and the forward-looking statements could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to: our participation in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result,
 
future income and expenditures; our dependence on the U.S. government for a significant portion of our revenues, and the loss of this relationship or a shift in U.S. government funding could have adverse consequences on our future business; potential changes in U.S. government or customer priorities due to program reviews or revisions to strategic objectives, including termination of or potential failure to fund U.S. government contracts; risks inherent with large long-term fixed-price contracts, particularly the ability to contain cost overruns; the performance of critical subcontractors or suppliers; financial and government and regulatory risks relating to international sales and operations, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the effectiveness of our currency hedging program; our ability to continue to develop new products that achieve market acceptance; the consequences of future geo-political events, which may affect adversely the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability; strategic acquisitions and the risks and uncertainties related thereto, including our ability to manage and integrate acquired businesses; potential claims that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties; the successful resolution of patent infringement claims and the ultimate outcome of other contingencies, litigation and legal matters; customer credit risk; the fair values of our portfolio of passive investments, which values are subject to significant price volatility or erosion; risks inherent in developing new technologies; the potential impact of hurricanes on our operations in Florida and the potential impact of earthquakes on our operations in California; the ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel; and general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. Further information relating to factors that may impact the Company's results and forward-looking statements are disclosed in the Company's filings with the SEC. Harris disclaims any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Attachments:
Financial Statements (seven tables)
HD Radio is a trademark of iBiquity Digital Corporation.
Pamela Padgett at 321-727-9383, or
Investor Relations inquiries:
pamela.padgett@harris.com
Jim Burke at 321-727-9131, or
Media inquiries:
jim.burke@harris.com
For additional information, contact Harris Corporation at .
webmaster@harris.com
 
 
 
 
 
To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP), we provide additional measures of segments' operating income (loss), non-operating income (loss); cost of product sales and services; engineering, selling and administrative expenses; income before income taxes; income taxes; net income, and net income per diluted share adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses. Harris management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that may, or could, have a disproportionately positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Harris management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze Harris' business trends and to understand Harris performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting, and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management compensation purposes. Any analysis of non-GAAP financial measures should be used only in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP follows:
 
 
 
 
Notes to tables 5 through 7:
 Adjustments to cost of product sales and services for the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2005 include inventory write-downs related to product discontinuances in the Microwave Communications segment ($35.0 million). Adjustments to cost of product sales and services for the two quarters ended December 30, 2005 also include inventory write-downs associated with cost reduction actions including the transfer of European manufacturing to the United States and outsourcing of other manufacturing activity in the Broadcast Communications segment ($11.3 million).
Note A
 Adjustments to engineering, selling and administrative expenses for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2006 relate to costs associated with the integration of the Microwave Communication division's previously announced transaction with Stratex Networks, Inc. ($1.7 million). Adjustments to engineering, selling and administrative expenses for the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2005 include the write-off of in-process research and development ($3.6 million) and other expenses ($2.9 million) associated with our acquisition of Leitch Technology Corporation ("Leitch") and severance costs associated with product discontinuances in the Microwave Communication segment ($0.5 million). Adjustments to engineering, selling and administrative expenses also include severance and other costs associated with previously announced cost reduction actions including the transfer of European manufacturing to the United States and outsourcing of other manufacturing activity in the Broadcast Communications segment of $5.2 million for the quarter ended December 30, 2005 and $11.9 million for the two quarters ended December 30, 2005.
Note B
 The adjustment to non-operating income (loss) for the two quarters ended December 29, 2006 relates to the previously announced impairment to our investment in Terion, Inc. ("Terion").
Note C
 Adjustments to the Microwave Communications segment operating income for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2006 relate to costs associated with the integration of the Microwave Communication division's previously announced transaction with Stratex Networks, Inc. ($1.7 million). Adjustments to the Microwave Communications segment operating income for the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2005 relate to the inventory write-downs and severance costs associated with product discontinuances ($35.5 million).
Note D
 Adjustments to the Broadcast Communications segment operating income for the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2005 include the write-off of in-process research and development ($3.6 million) and other expenses ($2.9 million) associated with our Leitch acquisition. Adjustments to the Broadcast Communications segment operating income include inventory write-downs associated with cost reduction actions including the transfer of European manufacturing to the United States and outsourcing of other manufacturing activity in the Broadcast Communications segment of $5.2 million for the quarter ended December 30, 2005 and $23.2 million for the two quarters ended December 30, 2005.
Note E
 Adjustment for severance and other costs associated with cost reduction actions being implemented in our Broadcast Communications segment as a result of the weak performance and near-term order outlook for TV transmission systems.
Note F
 Adjustment for the estimated $.16 per diluted share impact, after minority interest, from the one-time charges associated with the combination of Harris Microwave Communications Division and Stratex Networks, Inc. These charges include expenses related to integration and the impact from both a step-up in inventory and a write-down of deferred revenue as of the closing date of the transaction.
Note G
 Adjustment for the gain that Harris will recognize as a result of the combination of Harris Microwave Communications Division and Stratex Networks, Inc. The gain is estimated to be $.92 per diluted share, based on the closing price of Stratex Network Inc.'s stock and the estimated net book value of our Microwave Communications business on January 26, 2007.
Note H


