FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20070618171816.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Harris Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Harris"), entered into a Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement with Citigroup Global Markets Inc. on June 12, 2007, with Banc of America Securities LLC on June 13, 2007 and with SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc. on June 14, 2007 (collectively, the "Dealers") relating to Harris' commercial paper program (collectively, the "Dealer Agreements"). Pursuant to this program, Harris may issue unsecured short-term promissory notes ("") up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of up to $500,000,000. The program is backstopped by the Revolving Credit Agreement that was entered into by Harris on March 31, 2005.
Notes
The Dealer Agreements set forth the terms and conditions under which the Dealers will either purchase from Harris or arrange for the sale by Harris of Notes in transactions exempt from registration under federal and state securities laws. The Dealer Agreements contain customary representations, warranties, covenants and indemnification provisions. Under the Dealer Agreements, the maturities of the Notes may vary, but may not exceed 270 days, and the Notes must be in a minimum denomination of $100,000. The Notes may be issued and sold, at the option of Harris, either at a discount to face value or at face value and bear interest. The Commercial Paper Issuing and Paying Agent Agreement ("Agency Agreement"), dated March 30, 2005, previously entered into by Harris and Citibank, N.A., provides that Citibank, N.A. shall act as Harris' agent in connection with the issuance and payment of the Notes. A brief description of the Agency Agreement is set forth under Item 1.01 of Harris' Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on April 5, 2005 ("Prior Form 8-K") under the heading, "Commercial Paper Issuing and Paying Agent Agreement." Such description is incorporated herein by reference and is only a summary, does not purport to be complete, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of the Agency Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to the Prior Form 8-K and is also incorporated herein by reference.
The Dealers, and their affiliates, have performed or may perform in the future various commercial banking, investment banking and other financial advisory services for Harris and its affiliates for which they have received or may receive customary fees and expenses.
The foregoing description of the Dealer Agreements is only a summary, does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of the Dealer Agreements, which are filed as Exhibit 10.1, Exhibit 10.2 and Exhibit 10.3 hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On June 15, 2007, Harris completed the acquisition from Netco Government Services, LLC, a Minnesota limited liability company (the "Seller"), of all the issued and outstanding stock of Multimax Incorporated, a Maryland corporation ("Multimax"). The acquisition was consummated pursuant to the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of May 31, 2007 (the "Agreement"), between Harris and the Seller.
The purchase price for Multimax was $400,000,000, subject to possible upward or downward adjustment as set forth in the Agreement. Multimax is a provider of information technology and communications services and solutions supporting the Department of Defense, federal civilian agencies, and state and local governments. Prior to the acquisition, Multimax was owned by the Seller and the Seller is indirectly owned by Cerberus Partners, L.P. and certain other funds and/or accounts affiliated with Cerberus Capital Management. Cerberus Partners, L.P. has guaranteed the performance and payment of the Seller's covenants and obligations under the Agreement. There is no material relationship, other than in respect of the acquisition, between the Seller and Harris or any of Harris' affiliates, or any director or officer of Harris, or any associate of any such director or officer.
The foregoing description of the acquisition, the Agreement and the transaction contemplated thereby is only a summary, does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of the Agreement, which was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to Harris' Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 1, 2007, and is incorporated in this Item 2.01 by reference.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation Under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
Pursuant to the Agency Agreement and the Dealer Agreements with Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC, on June 14, 2007, Harris issued an aggregate principal amount of $350,000,000 of Notes under its commercial paper program ("CP Notes). As of June 14, 2007, $300,000,000 of the CP Notes had a seven day maturity and $50,000,000 of the CP Notes had a one day maturity. The CP Notes were issued and sold pursuant to an exemption from registration under federal and state securities laws. The proceeds from the issuance of the CP Notes were used by Harris to fund a portion of the purchase price for the acquisition of Multimax. The CP Notes are not redeemable prior to maturity and are not subject to voluntary prepayment. The outstanding CP Notes constitute a direct financial obligation of Harris. As of June 15, 2007, the CP Notes had a weighted average interest rate of approximately 5.40%. Subject to Harris' capital needs, market conditions and alternative capital market opportunities, Harris expects to maintain indebtedness under the commercial paper program by continually repaying and reissuing Notes until such time as the outstanding Notes are replaced with longer term debt. However, Harris' commercial paper balance may increase or decrease in the short term due to working capital needs and cash balances.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On June 15, 2007, Harris issued a press release announcing the completion of the acquisition of Multimax. The full text of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The information contained in this Item 7.01, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a)     Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
The financial statements required by this item are not being filed herewith. To the extent such information is required by this item, they will be filed with the SEC by amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K no later than 71 days after the date on which this Current Report on Form 8-K is required to be filed.
(b)     Pro Forma Financial Information.
The pro forma financial information required by this item is not being filed herewith. To the extent such information is required by this item, it will be filed with the SEC by amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K no later than 71 days after the date on which this Current Report on Form 8-K is required to be filed.
(d)     Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 10.1
THIS COMMERCIAL PAPER DEALER AGREEMENT, dated as of June 12, 2007, between CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC. (the "Dealer") and HARRIS CORPORATION (the "Company").
WHEREAS, the Company desires to issue its short-term promissory notes in the United States commercial paper market,
WHEREAS, the Company has requested the Dealer to act on a non-exclusive basis as a dealer therefor and the Dealer has indicated its willingness to do so on the terms and conditions contained herein,
NOW THEREFORE, the Dealer and the Company hereby agree as follow:
 
 
 
 
 
 
     If to the Company:
     If to the Dealer:
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.

 
EXHIBIT 10.2
THIS COMMERCIAL PAPER DEALER AGREEMENT, dated as of June 13, 2007, between BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC (the "Dealer") and HARRIS CORPORATION (the "Company").
WHEREAS, the Company desires to issue its short-term promissory notes in the United States commercial paper market,
WHEREAS, the Company has requested the Dealer to act on a non-exclusive basis as a dealer therefor and the Dealer has indicated its willingness to do so on the terms and conditions contained herein,
NOW THEREFORE, the Dealer and the Company hereby agree as follow:
 
 
 
 
 
 
     If to the Company:
     If to the Dealer:
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.

 
EXHIBIT 10.3
THIS COMMERCIAL PAPER DEALER AGREEMENT, dated as of June 14, 2007, between SUNTRUST CAPITAL MARKETS, INC. (the "Dealer") and HARRIS CORPORATION (the "Company").
WHEREAS, the Company desires to issue its short-term promissory notes in the United States commercial paper market,
WHEREAS, the Company has requested the Dealer to act on a non-exclusive basis as a dealer therefor and the Dealer has indicated its willingness to do so on the terms and conditions contained herein,
NOW THEREFORE, the Dealer and the Company hereby agree as follow:
 
 
 
 
 
 
     If to the Company:
     If to the Dealer:
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
:
Contact Information
 Harris Corporation (NYSE:HRS), an international communications and information technology company, has completed its previously announced acquisition of Multimax Incorporated. Privately held Multimax was purchased for $400 million in cash. The company is being combined with Harris Corporation's technical services business to form a new organization  Harris Information Technology Services. The organization will serve information technology (IT) outsourcing requirements of the U.S. government.
WASHINGTON, DC/MELBOURNE, FL., June 15, 2007
"Government IT is a key growth market for Harris," said Howard L. Lance, chairman, president and CEO. "We have now almost doubled the resources we are applying to this important market, and expect that opportunities for growth should increase across an expanded customer base. Multimax has a very talented workforce and leadership positions on several key Government-Wide Acquisition Contracts (GWACs) that should open the door for Harris to supply new and existing customers with additional technical services, as well as additional products and systems. The acquisition is complementary to our existing technical services business, provides additional scale, and positions us well to capitalize on the U.S. government market trend for increased outsourcing of IT systems and communications network support services. This is a very exciting expansion of our government service capabilities that also will increase our exposure throughout served government markets."
"Multimax has a track record of strong revenue growth and excellent profitability, and a pipeline of new business opportunities across Department of Defense and civilian agencies," said Ted Hengst, president of Harris Information Technology Services. "As part of Harris Information Technology Services, Multimax will continue to provide the same outstanding level of service to its existing customer base that has earned it such a great reputation in the IT market. The combined organization will apply additional scale and resources to maximize the value that Harris Information Technology Services delivers to its customers. We will employ a high level of synergy, energy, and teamwork to underpin the value we bring to customers from day-one."
Multimax's latest 12 months pro forma revenue ended March 31, 2007, was $315 million and pro forma operating income was $55 million*. The company has 1,100 employees located primarily at customer
 
sites supporting a diverse portfolio of mission-critical network infrastructure programs. A large portion of the company's workforce is technically certified and about 85 percent of its employees have government security clearances.
Customers include the U.S. Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, Army, Department of Homeland Security, Department of State, Department of Veterans Affairs and the Federal Aviation Administration. Multimax has key positions on major contracts, such as the Navy Marine Corps Intranet (NMCI) program, and GWACs including NETCENTS, EAGLE, ITES-2S and FirstSource. These information technology procurement vehicles are broadly accessible by government agencies.
Headquartered in Falls Church, Virginia, Harris Information Technology Services is a leading provider of mission-critical IT and communications services and support to defense, intelligence, homeland security and civil customers. With 3,000 professionals operating at locations worldwide, Harris Information Technology Services supports large-scale IT programs that encompass the full technology lifecycle, with the highest professional and technical standards.
About Harris Information Technology Services
Harris is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 150 countries. Headquartered in Melbourne, Florida, the company has annual revenue of about $4 billion and more than 15,000 employees  including more than 6,000 engineers and scientists. Harris is dedicated to developing best-in-class  products, systems, and services for global markets, including government communications, RF communications, broadcast communications, and wireless transmission network solutions. Additional information about Harris Corporation is available at .
About Harris Corporation
assured communications
www.harris.com
* Multimax Pro forma Revenue and Pro forma Operating Income
The Multimax latest 12 months pro forma revenue and pro forma operating income reflect adjustments from GAAP results to: (i) include the impact of the combination of Multimax Incorporated and Netco Government Services, Inc. as if the combination had occurred as of the beginning of the period presented; and (ii) normalization of the NMCI contract revenue as previously disclosed.
This press release contains forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations, assumptions and estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Such statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results and future trends to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. Statements about the expected value and anticipated benefits of the transaction to Harris are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties. Other factors that may impact the company's results and forward-looking statement may be disclosed in the company's filings with the SEC. Harris disclaims any intention or obligation, except as imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements


