FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20070501161435.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     
The information contained in this Current Report on
Form 8-K
that is furnished under this Item 2.02 and 7.01, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 of
Form 8-K
and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section. The information contained in this Current Report on
Form 8-K
that is furnished under this Item 2.02 and 7.01, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     On May 1, 2007, Harris Corporation ("") issued a press release announcing, among other things, its results of operations and financial condition as of and for its third quarter of fiscal 2007 and revised guidance regarding expected earnings for fiscal 2007 and initial guidance regarding expected earnings for fiscal 2008. Harris also announced that its Board of Directors has approved a new $600 million share repurchase program. The full text of the press release and related financial tables is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Harris
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information.
     The press release includes a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures, including net income and net income (or earnings) per diluted share for the third quarter of fiscal 2007 and earnings per share guidance for fiscal 2007, in each case excluding certain costs, expenses, charges, gains or losses. A "non-GAAP financial measure" is generally defined as a numerical measure of a company's historical or future performance that excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments, so as to be different from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (""). Net income and net income (or earnings) per diluted share, excluding the impact of: (i) the gain associated with the combination of Harris' Microwave Communications business and Stratex Networks, Inc. (the ""); (ii) transaction and integration costs associated with the Combination; (iii) the impairment and related charges to Harris' investment in Terion, Inc.; (iv) charges related to cost-reduction actions and the write-down of capitalized software in Harris' Broadcast Communications segment; and (v) other costs, expenses and charges outlined in the press release are financial measures that are not defined by GAAP and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, income, income per diluted share, and other financial measures on a GAAP basis. Harris has included in its press release a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in the press release to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
GAAP
Combination
     Harris management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that could have a disproportionate positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Harris management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze trends in Harris' business and to better understand Harris' performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management compensation purposes. Please refer to Harris' financial statements and accompanying footnotes for additional information and for a presentation of results in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     On April 27, 2007, the Board of Directors approved a new $600 million share repurchase program. While this program does not have a stated expiration date, management currently expects
 
to repurchase $200 million in shares during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and the remaining $400 million in shares over the following 24 months. This new program is expected to result in repurchases well in excess of offsetting the dilutive effect of shares issued under Harris' share-based incentive plans. Share repurchases are expected to be funded with available cash. Repurchases under this program may be made through open-market purchases, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions, or any combination thereof. The timing, volume and nature of share repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at the discretion of management and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. This new share repurchase program replaces the prior share repurchase authorization.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 1, 2007
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 Harris Corporation (NYSE:HRS) reported revenue for the third quarter of fiscal year 2007 increased 22 percent to $1.072 billion, compared to $881 million in the prior-year quarter. GAAP net income increased to $214.9 million or $1.52 per diluted share. Non-GAAP net incomeexcluding a significant gain and charges associated with the Harris Stratex Networks transaction, and charges associated with cost-reduction actions in the Broadcast Communications segmentincreased to $100.5 million, or $.72 per diluted share, a 24 percent increase when compared to non-GAAP income in the prior-year quarter. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures is provided on Tables 5 and 6 along with accompanying notes.
MELBOURNE, Florida, May 1, 2007
"Harris delivered excellent financial results in the third quarter, led by higher revenue and strong operating performance in our Government Communications Systems and RF Communications segments," said Howard L. Lance, chairman, president, and chief executive officer. "Organic revenue growth was 14 percent in the quarter, reflecting continued positive momentum for the company. Our diversified U.S. and international customer base, solid program execution, and new product introductions position Harris for continued growth going forward. Significant restructuring activities during the quarter in our two commercial businesses overshadowed the progress we are making in repositioning Broadcast Communications and Harris Stratex Networks as global market leaders."
The Harris Board of Directors has approved a new $600 million share repurchase program. The company expects to purchase $200 million of its shares during the current quarter, with the remaining $400 million spread over the following 24 months. "Our new share repurchase program recognizes our excellent cash flow from operations," Lance said. "We will repurchase shares in balance with market conditions and the company's operational requirements, while continuing to invest in both internal growth initiatives and strategic acquisitions."
New Share Repurchase Program
Share repurchases will be funded with available cash. Repurchases under the program may be made through open market purchases, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions, or any combination thereof. The timing, volume, and nature of share repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws, and other factors, are at the discretion of the company's management, and may be suspended or discontinued at
 
any time. The share repurchase program announced today replaces a previous share repurchase authorization, which had approximately 2.5 million shares remaining.
Government Communications Systems
Third quarter revenue of $500 million in the Government Communications Systems segment was a year-over-year increase of 10 percent, and resulted from the award of new programs for communications and information networks and continued expansion of work scope on existing programs. Operating income was $63.9 million, and operating margin was 12.8 percent, reflecting a favorable program mix and a net $4.3 million gain on the sale of the STAT network security product line.
Year-over-year revenue growth drivers in the third quarter included:
RF Communications
Revenue in the RF Communications segment was $304 million in the third quarter, a 42 percent increase compared to the year-ago quarter. Operating income was $107.4 million and operating margin was 35.3 percent.
Opportunities in both U.S. and international markets continued to be very strong, fueled by on-going global tactical radio modernization. Harris high-performance, feature-rich Falcon tactical radios continue to demonstrate communications capabilities and interoperability that is unmatched in the industry. During the quarter, Harris received significant new orders from the
 
U.S. Marine Corps, U.S. Army, and U.S. Air Force and from the governments of Saudi Arabia, Algeria, and the Republic of Georgia.
Harris has now delivered over 15,000 units of its next-generation Falcon III multi-band handheld radio since its launch in fiscal year 2006. The Falcon III handheld radio is the first widely fielded tactical radio to receive certification from the JTRS (Joint Tactical Radio System) Joint Program Executive Office and the National Security Agency (NSA). Customers for the Falcon III handheld and vehicular radio systems include the U.S. Army, U.S. Navy and U.S. Air Force, as well as other government agencies. The Falcon III has been well received by the market and is providing combat units in Iraq with true multimode operational capabilities, including ground-to-ground, ground-to-air and long-range tactical satellite communications. The Falcon III multiband man-pack radio, scheduled for release in September 2007, will be the first NSA-certified radio to provide wideband secure networking for data-intensive applications, such as video transmission in mobile battlefield conditions.
Also during the quarter, Harris received Type 1 certification from the NSA for its new SecNet 54 Secure Wireless Local Area Network product line. This product enables transmission of sensitive defense communications over wireless infrastructures in applications such as tactical operations centers.
Broadcast Communications
Revenue in the Broadcast Communications segment was $139 million in the third quarter, compared to $143 million in the prior-year quarter. Strong positive trends continued in the Video Infrastructure and Digital Media product lines, which posted another quarter of strong double-digit revenue growth. Investments in analog-to-digital and high-definition systems are enabling content providers and broadcasters to create, manage and deliver additional channels and video streams to consumers. HD Radio Transmission systems revenue also increased as a result of further penetration of the new Harris FlexStar exciter. Revenue was significantly lower in the quarter in U.S. digital TV Transmission and Automation software systems products.
The segment's operating loss of $18.1 million in the quarter included charges of $23.1 million related to cost-reduction actions in both the Transmission and Software business areas, including severance and facilities charges and the write-down of capitalized software associated with discontinuing an Automation software development effort. Excluding these charges, non-GAAP operating income was $5.0 million. Income was negatively impacted by the significant decline in U.S. digital TV Transmission and Automation systems revenue, and by increased expenses associated with the investment and deployment of new Software products including OSi Traffic
 
and Invenio Digital Asset Management. Cost-reduction actions are expected to result in annual savings of approximately $12 million in fiscal year 2008.
Broadcast Communications orders were significantly higher than sales at $167 million, a 12 percent increase over the prior-year quarter. Video Infrastructure product line orders increased 17 percent compared to the fiscal 2006 third quarter. Harris provides industry-leading routers, digital amplifiers, test and measurement and networking technologies that support large, fast-growing segments of the media market. Harris is supporting customers as they expand services for high-definition TV, Internet Protocol TV, video-on-demand, and interactive TV. Recent acquisitions and a series of innovative new products have clearly established Harris as the preferred end-to-end solutions provider for the digital build-out worldwide. Harris solutions were on display at the recent National Association of Broadcasters (NAB) trade show and received very positive customer reviews and numerous awards for innovation.
Harris Stratex Networks, Inc.
On January 26, 2007, the Harris Microwave Communications Division was combined with Stratex Networks, Inc. to create a new company named Harris Stratex Networks, Inc., with Harris owning 57 percent of the outstanding shares. Harris third quarter fiscal 2007 financial results include two months of Harris Stratex Networks on a fully consolidated basis, with an elimination of the minority interest.
Third quarter revenue for the Harris Stratex Networks segment was $139 million. Segment operating income was $141.0 million, and included a $163.4 million gain and $26.5 million of costs associated with the transaction. Non-GAAP operating income, excluding both the gain and transaction costs, was $4.1 million in the third quarter. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures is provided on Table 8 along with accompanying notes.
For comparative purposes, Harris Stratex Networks has provided pro forma, non-GAAP financial information related to revenue and income for the third quarters of fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, as if the former Stratex Networks and the former Harris Microwave Communications Division had been combined for the entire third quarter in both years. On this basis, Harris Stratex Networks revenue was $147 million in the third quarter, 7 percent higher than the same quarter in the prior year. North America revenue reflected continued market strength, increasing 34 percent compared to the prior-year quarter. Growth was driven by mobile operators substituting microwave capabilities for leased lines and by requirements for additional capacity to handle high-bandwidth services. In addition, a large private network upgrade for a state government was also a major revenue driver in the quarter.
 
International revenue declined 4 percent in the quarter compared to the prior year, primarily as a result of lower orders and project delays in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. The segment's merger integration activities in these regions disrupted existing sales channels more than expected. International revenue was higher in Latin America compared to the prior year, and revenue in the Network Operations segment of the business also increasedGlobal wireless infrastructure investment is expected to continue as mobile operators expand their networks and deploy new 3G services.
.
On a pro forma, non-GAAP basis operating income in the third quarter for Harris Stratex Networks was $5.6 million, which was flat with the prior-year quarter. A higher mix of services versus product revenue in both North America and Africa reduced gross margin and operating results. On-going product cost reductions progressed as planned during the quarter with product margins increasing. The majority of integration activities should be completed during fiscal year 2007.
Harris Stratex Networks (NASDAQ:HSTX) management will host a conference call and webcast () today at 5:30 p.m., Eastern Time, to discuss financial results for their fiscal year third quarter.
www.harrisstratex.com
Outlook and Guidance
Revised non-GAAP earnings guidance for fiscal year 2007 is a range of $2.77 to $2.81 per diluted share. The company also provided initial earnings guidance for fiscal year 2008, beginning June 30, 2007, of $3.20 to $3.30 per diluted share, representing an increase of approximately 17 percent.
"In fiscal year 2008, we expect to achieve revenue growth in a range of 10 to 15 percent, including the full-year contribution of Harris Stratex Networks," Lance said. "Our optimism is driven by expectations for growth in each of our business segments. Our Government Communications Systems segment should continue expanding its broad program base with work on future communications and IT platform upgrades, as well as new international opportunities. Further growth in the RF Communications segment is expected as both U.S. and international customers continue to gravitate toward the robust capabilities of our Falcon tactical radios.
"Our commercial broadcast and microwave segments are expected to contribute significant growth in fiscal 2008 as they address a growing list of opportunities, particularly in international markets," Lance said. "Order growth in the Broadcast business confirms our strategic investments in video infrastructure and digital media acquisitions, and the recent merger of our
 
Microwave Communications segment with Stratex Networks has created a new business with significant mass and product depth in the global telecom market."
Harris will host a conference call today at 4:30 p.m., Eastern Time, to discuss the above items. Interested individuals are invited to listen to the call by using a dial-in number: (719) 457-2633, access code: 8643460. The conference call also will be broadcast live via the Internet at . A replay of the teleconference will be available beginning at 8:00 p.m., Eastern Time, and will run until midnight, Eastern Time, on Tuesday, May 8. To access the replay, please call (719) 457-0820, access code: 8643460. A recording of the call will also be available on the Harris website beginning at 7:00 p.m., Eastern Time, on May 1.
http://www.harris.com
Harris is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 150 countries. Headquartered in Melbourne, Florida, the company has annual revenue of about $4 billion and more than 14,000 employees  including more than 6,000 engineers and scientists. Harris is dedicated to developing best-in-class  products, systems, and services for global markets, including government communications, RF communications, broadcast communications, and wireless transmission network solutions. Additional information about Harris Corporation is available at .
assured communications
www.harris.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release contains non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the SEC, including net income and earnings per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2007 excluding the impact of costs associated with the combination of our Harris Microwave Communications business and Stratex Networks, Inc. and earnings per share guidance for fiscal 2007 also excluding the impact of integration activities and the gain associated with the combination of our Harris Microwave Communications business and Stratex Networks, Inc., the impairment in our Terion investment and charges related to cost-reduction actions and write-down of capitalized software in our Broadcast Communications segment. Harris management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that may, or could, have a disproportionately positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze Harris business trends and to better understand the company's performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting, and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management compensation purposes. Any analysis of non-GAAP financial measures should be used only in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP.
Forward-Looking Statement
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations, assumptions, and estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Such statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements in this release include but are not limited to: earnings
 
guidance for fiscal 2007 and 2008; the potential value of contract awards and potential contract awards; the expected benefits of cost reduction actions; and statements regarding outlook, including expected revenue growth. The Company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results and future trends to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. The Company's consolidated results and the forward-looking statements could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to: our participation in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures; our dependence on the U.S. government for a significant portion of our revenues, and the loss of this relationship or a shift in U.S. government funding could have adverse consequences on our future business; potential changes in U.S. government or customer priorities due to program reviews or revisions to strategic objectives, including termination of or potential failure to fund U.S. government contracts; risks inherent with large long-term fixed-price contracts, particularly the ability to contain cost overruns; the performance of critical subcontractors or suppliers; financial and government and regulatory risks relating to international sales and operations, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the effectiveness of our currency hedging program; our ability to continue to develop new products that achieve market acceptance; the consequences of future geo-political events, which may affect adversely the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability; strategic acquisitions and the risks and uncertainties related thereto, including our ability to manage and integrate acquired businesses; potential claims that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties; the successful resolution of patent infringement claims and the ultimate outcome of other contingencies, litigation and legal matters; customer credit risk; the fair values of our portfolio of passive investments, which values are subject to significant price volatility or erosion; risks inherent in developing new technologies; the potential impact of hurricanes on our operations in Florida and the potential impact of earthquakes on our operations in California; the impact of the results of Harris Stratex Networks, which may vary significantly and may be difficult to forecast; the ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel; and general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. Further information relating to factors that may impact the Company's results and forward-looking statements are disclosed in the Company's filings with the SEC. Harris disclaims any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
.
Attachments:
Financial Statements (eight tables)
HD Radio is a trademark of iBiquity Digital Corporation.
Pamela Padgett at 321-727-9383, or
Investor Relations inquiries:
pamela.padgett@harris.com
Jim Burke at 321-727-9131, or
Media inquiries:
jim.burke@harris.com
For additional information, contact Harris Corporation at .
webmaster@harris.com
 
 
 
 
 
To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we provide additional measures of segments' operating income (loss), non-operating income (loss); cost of product sales and services; engineering, selling and administrative expenses; gain on the combination with Stratex; income before income taxes; income taxes; net income, and net income per diluted share adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses. Harris management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that may, or could, have a disproportionately positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Harris management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze Harris business trends and to understand Harris performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting, and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management compensation purposes. Any analysis of non-GAAP financial measures should be used only in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to tables 5 through 8:
 Adjustments to cost of product sales and services for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2007 are due to transaction-related costs including a step up in inventory, step up in fixed assets and write-off of deferred revenue related to our combination with Stratex ($6.0 million). Adjustments to cost of product sales and services for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 are due to costs related to a step up in inventory associated with our acquisition of Leitch Technology Corporation ("Leitch") ($2.5 million). Adjustments to cost of product sales and services for the three quarters ended March 31, 2006 are due to inventory write-downs associated with product discontinuances in our Harris Stratex Networks segment ($35.0 million), inventory write-downs associated with cost-reduction actions including the transfer of European manufacturing to the United States and outsourcing of other manufacturing activity in our Broadcast Communications segment ($11.3 million) and costs related to a step up in inventory associated with our acquisition of Leitch ($2.5 million).
Note A
 Adjustments to engineering, selling and administrative expenses for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2007 are due to transaction costs related to the combination with Stratex including the write-off of in-process research and development and the amortization of backlog ($17.0 million); integration costs associated with the Stratex combination ($3.5 million for the quarter and $5.2 million for the three quarters ended March 30, 2007); severance and other expenses associated with cost-reduction actions in our Broadcast Communications segment ($4.2 million) and the write-down of capitalized software associated with management's decision to discontinue an automation software development effort in our Broadcast Communications segment ($18.9 million). Adjustments to engineering, selling and administrative expenses for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 are due to a charge related to a decision received in our arbitration with Bourdex Telecommunications Limited ("Bourdex") ($5.4 million), integration costs associated with our acquisition of Leitch ($0.7 million), severance and other expenses associated with cost-reduction actions in our Broadcast Communications segment ($0.8 million) and severance costs associated with product discontinuances in our Harris Stratex Networks segment ($0.3 million). Adjustments to engineering, selling and administrative expenses for the three quarters ended March 31, 2006 are due to the charge related to our arbitration with Bourdex ($5.4 million), the write-off of in-process research and development and other expenses associated with our acquisition of Leitch ($7.2 million), severance costs associated with product discontinuances in our Harris Stratex Networks segment ($0.8 million) and severance and other expenses associated with cost-reduction actions in our Broadcast Communications segment ($12.7 million).
Note B
 Adjustment for the gain on the combination with Stratex ($163.4 million).
Note C
 The adjustment to non-operating income (loss) for the three quarters ended March 30, 2007 is due to the impairment to our investment in Terion, Inc. ("Terion") ($19.8 million).
Note D
 Adjustments to our Harris Stratex Networks segment operating income for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2007 are due to the gain on the combination with Stratex ($163.4 million) offset by transaction costs ($23.0 million) and integration costs ($3.5 million for the quarter and $5.2 million for the three quarters ended March 30, 2007) associated with the transaction. Adjustments to our Harris Stratex Networks segment operating income for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 are due to severance costs associated with product discontinuances in our Harris Stratex Networks segment ($0.3 million). Adjustments to our Harris Stratex Networks segment operating loss for the three quarters ended March 31, 2006 are due to inventory write-downs and severance costs associated with product discontinuances ($35.8 million).
Note E
 Adjustments to our Broadcast Communications segment operating income for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2007 are due to severance and other expenses associated with cost-reduction actions ($4.2 million) and a write-down of capitalized software associated with management's decision to discontinue an automation software
Note F
 
development effort ($18.9 million). Adjustments to our Broadcast Communications segment operating income for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 are due to costs related to a step up in inventory and integration costs associated with our acquisition of Leitch ($3.2 million) and severance and other expenses associated with cost reduction actions in our Broadcast Communications segment ($0.8 million). Adjustments to our Broadcast Communications segment operating income for the three quarters ended March 31, 2006 are due to inventory write-downs, severance and other expenses associated with cost-reduction actions ($24.0 million) and charges associated with our acquisition of Leitch ($9.7 million) including the write-off of in-process research and development, costs related to the step up of inventory, integration costs and other items.
 Adjustments to headquarters expense for the quarter and three quarters ended March 31, 2006 are due to charges related to a decision received in our arbitration with Bourdex ($5.4 million).
Note G
 Adjustment for the estimated $.17 per diluted share impact, after minority interest, from the charges associated with the merger transaction with Stratex. These charges include expenses related to integration and transaction costs including the write-off of in-process research and development, the impact from step ups in inventory and fixed assets and a write-down of deferred revenue as of the closing date of the transaction.
Note H
 The difference between the GAAP operating income (loss) recorded during the quarter ended March 30, 2007 by Harris versus Harris Stratex Networks is due to the $163.4 million gain recorded by Harris on the combination with Stratex and $0.3 million of corporate allocations expense. The difference between the GAAP operating income (loss) recorded during the quarter ended March 31, 2006 by Harris versus Harris Stratex Networks is due to $6.9 million of corporate allocations expense and $0.2 million of other expense.
Note I


