FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20070524172557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On May 21, 2007, Harris Corporation ("Harris") issued a press release announcing that Robert K. Henry has been named to the newly created position of Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, effective immediately. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Henry, age 59, had been Executive Vice President and President of Harris Government Communications Systems Division since July 2006. Mr. Henry joined Harris in 1997 as Vice President-General Manager of the Communications Systems Division of the former Electronics Systems Sector and was appointed President of the Government Communications Systems Division in 1999. The full text of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated into this Item 5.02 by reference. Mr. Henry serves at the pleasure of the Board. There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Henry and any other person pursuant to which he was selected as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and there is no family relationship betwee n Mr. Henry and any of the executive officers or directors of Harris. In addition, Mr. Henry has not been directly or indirectly involved in any transaction, proposed transaction, or series of similar transactions with Harris required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K. Mr. Henry does not have a written employment agreement with Harris and he did not receive any salary increase or additional equity awards or other compensation in connection with this appointment. Mr. Henrys current salary and bonus information is included in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Harris on August 31, 2006, which is incorporated herein by reference. Mr. Henry is party to a change in control severance agreement with Harris in substantially the form that has been filed as Exhibit 10(a) to Harris Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1996, and which provides severance benefits in the event Mr. Henrys employment is terminated by Harris without cause, or by Mr. Henry for good reason, within two years following a change of control. If triggered, the lump-sum severance benefit payable under Mr. Henrys change in control severance agreement will include three times his highest annual rate of base salary during the 12-month period prior to the date of termination and three times the greatest of his highest annual bonus in the three years prior to the year during which the change in control occurred, his target bonus for the year during which the change of control occurred or his target bonus for the year in which his employment is terminated. Mr. Henry is eligible to participate in the Harris equity incentive plans and retirement, health and welfare plans on the same terms offered to other participants and is also eligible to receive perquisites on the same basis offered to other executive officers.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On May 21, 2007, Harris announced that effective with its fiscal year 2008, which begins June 30, 2007, Harris segment reporting will be adjusted and will include: (i) Government Communications Systems; (ii) Defense Communications and Electronics; (iii) Broadcast Communications; and (iv) Harris Stratex Networks, Inc. Further information is set forth in the press release filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1, which is incorporated into this Item 8.01 by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is filed herewith: 99.1 Press Release, issued by Harris Corporation on May 21, 2007.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EXHIBIT 99.1
 Harris Corporation (NYSE), an international communications and information technology company, has named Robert K. Henry to the newly created position of executive vice president and chief operating officer. Henry, 59, previously was executive vice president and president of the Government Communications Systems Division. He will continue to oversee the company's government businesses in addition to providing leadership to a broader group of corporate functions, including research and development, technology transfer, acquisition integration, facilities, supply chain management, manufacturing, information systems, government affairs, contracts and security.
MELBOURNE, Florida, May 21, 2007
Jeremy C. Wensinger, 43, has been named group president  Government Communications Systems. He will lead the company's civil agency programs, intelligence agency programs and technical services programs, and manage the shared engineering, operations and business development and strategic marketing resources pool for the government businesses. Daniel R. Pearson, 55, has been named group president  Defense Communications and Electronics. He will lead the company's Department of Defense programs, RF Communications and international systems programs. Both Wensinger and Pearson will continue to report to Henry.
Tim Thorsteinson, president of the Broadcast Communications Division, will continue to report to Howard L. Lance, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Harris. Lance also will continue to represent Harris as a member of the Board of Directors of Harris Stratex Networks, Inc.
Effective with its fiscal year 2008, which begins July 2, 2007, the company's segment reporting will be adjusted to reflect the new organization structure. The four segments will include Government Communications Systems, Defense Communications and Electronics, Broadcast Communications, and Harris Stratex Networks.
"Bob is well qualified for this expanded leadership role," said Lance. "His focus on the day-to-day execution of our company-wide business strategies for technology, information systems and the supply chain will drive further improvement in our operating performance and create new value for Harris customers and shareholders. Dan and Jeremy will remain focused on driving top-line growth across our government businesses by investing in new products, developing new systems capabilities, and expanding served markets, including international."
Henry joined Harris in 1997 as vice president and general manager  Government Communications Systems. He was appointed president of Government Communications Systems in 1999, and was promoted to his most recent position in 2006. Prior to joining Harris, Henry held senior management positions with Lockheed Martin, General Electric and RCA. He earned a bachelor's degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Pittsburgh, and a MBA from Frostburg University.
Wensinger most recently was responsible for the civil agency, intelligence agency and technical services programs within Government Communications Systems. Previously, he was president of Harris Broadcast Communications Division. He joined Harris in 1989 and has held a number of senior management positions in Government Communications Systems. He holds a bachelor's degree in business administration from Bowling Green State University and a MBA from the University of South Florida.
Pearson previously was president of Harris Department of Defense programs. He also served as president of the company's former Network Support Division. He joined Harris in 1977 and has held a number senior management positions in Government Communications Systems. He has a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from the University of Pittsburgh.
About Harris Corporation
Harris is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 150 countries. Headquartered in Melbourne, Florida, the company has annual revenue of about $4 billion and more than 14,000 employees  including more than 6,000 engineers and scientists. Harris is dedicated to developing best-in-class  products, systems, and services for global markets, including government communications, RF communications, broadcast communications, and wireless transmission network solutions. Additional information about Harris Corporation is available at
assured communications
www.harris.com
High resolution photos are available from the following links: , , and Pamela Padgett at 321-727-9383, or Jim Burke at 321-727-9131, or For additional information, contact Harris Corporation at .
Editors Note:
Robert Henry
Jeremy Wensinger
Daniel Pearson
Investor Relations inquiries:
pamela.padgett@harris.com
Media inquiries:
jim.burke@harris.com
webmaster@harris.com


