FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20070201171133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     As contemplated by the Formation Agreement (as defined below), Harris Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), and Harris Stratex Networks, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), have entered into several agreements in connection with the closing of the Combination (as defined below), including, among others, an investor agreement, a non-competition agreement and a registration rights agreement.
Harris
Newco
     
Investor Agreement
     The investor agreement provides, among other things, that Harris, as the sole holder of Class B common stock of Newco, will have the right to elect separately as a class a number of directors ("") equal to its proportionate ownership of Newco common stock (rounding down to the next whole number of Class B Directors) and further provides that, so long as Harris holds a majority of the outstanding common stock of Newco, the number of directors of Newco will be nine (9), five (5) of which will be Class B Directors. As an initial matter, Harris has appointed Howard L. Lance, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Harris, Guy M. Campbell, the former President of Harris' Microwave Communications Division, Eric C. Evans, Dr. Mohsen Sohi and James C. Stoffel, who also serves as a director of Harris, as Class B Directors. Harris has agreed that for two (2) years following the consummation of the Combination, one Class B Director will be required to meet the independence requirements of Rule 4350(d)(2)(A) of the rules promulgated by the NASDAQ Stock Market applicable to those persons listed on the NASDAQ Global Market (the "") and one Class B Director will not be an employee of Harris. The remaining four (4) initial directors of Newco were appointed by Stratex and include Charles D. Kissner, the former Chairman of Stratex, William A. Hasler, a former director of Stratex, Clifford H. Higgerson, a former director of Stratex, and Edward F. Thompson, a former director of Stratex.
Class B Directors
NASDAQ Rules
     The investor agreement also includes agreements between Harris and Newco addressing Harris' ability to purchase or dispose of shares of Newco common stock, including the agreement by Harris that, for two years following the consummation of the Combination, it will not acquire any additional shares of Newco common stock or dispose of any of its interest in Newco, other than pursuant to pre-emptive rights set forth in the investor agreement or unless approved in advance by a majority of the directors of Newco not nominated by Harris. In addition, the investor agreement also includes provisions addressing related party transactions and duties relating to corporate opportunities.
     
Non-Competition Agreement
     The non-competition agreement provides, among other things, that for five (5) years after the consummation of the Combination, Harris will not develop, manufacture, distribute or sell any microwave radio systems and related components, systems and services (i) that compete with the identified products of Newco, or (ii) that are substantially similar to such products in form, fit and function when used in terrestrial microwave point-to-point communications networks that provide access and trunking of voice and data for telecommunications networks. This restriction does not apply to the development, manufacture, distribution or sale of microwave radios or related components, systems or services to government entities or resales of non-Harris-branded equipment.
     
Registration Rights Agreement
     The registration rights agreement provides that Newco will register shares of Newco common stock held by Harris under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, from time to time, subject to the terms and conditions stated therein.
     The foregoing descriptions of the investor agreement, the non-competition agreement and the registration rights agreement do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of each of the investor agreement, non-competition agreement and registration rights agreement, which are filed as , and hereto and incorporated into this of this report by reference.
Exhibit 10.1
Exhibit 10.2
Exhibit 10.3
Item 1.01
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
     On January 26, 2006, Harris, Newco and Stratex Networks, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), completed the transactions contemplated by the Amended and Restated Formation, Contribution and
Stratex
 
Merger Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2006 (the ""), among Harris, Stratex, Newco, and Stratex Merger Corp., a Delaware corporation ("").
Formation Agreement
Merger Sub
     In accordance with the Formation Agreement, (i) Harris contributed the assets comprising its Microwave Communications Division ("") and $32.1 million in cash to Newco and, following the allocation (as appropriate and reasonably practicable) by Harris of its liabilities between MCD and its other businesses and divisions, Newco assumed those liabilities primarily resulting from or primarily arising out of MCD, other than certain specified liabilities (the ""), and (ii) Merger Sub, a wholly owned subsidiary of Newco, merged with and into Stratex with Stratex surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of Newco (the ""). The Contribution and the Merger are herein collectively referred to as the "".
MCD
Contribution
Merger
Combination
     In connection with the Combination, (i) each outstanding share of Stratex common stock, par value $0.01 per share, was automatically converted into one-fourth of a share of Newco Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share, (ii) in connection with the conversion of the Stratex common stock, Newco issued approximately 24,733,114 shares of Newco's Class A common stock, with cash to be issued to former holders of Stratex common stock in lieu of any fractional shares of Newco Class A common stock to which they would otherwise be entitled, and (iii) Newco issued to Harris a total of 32,850,965 shares of Newco Class B common stock, par value $0.01 per share. As provided in the Formation Agreement, the shares of Newco Class B common stock issued to Harris in connection with the Contribution equal approximately 56% of the outstanding shares of Newco common stock immediately following the consummation of the Combination applying the treasury stock method assuming, solely for this purpose, a fair market value per share of Newco Class A common stock of $20.80 (which is equivalent to $5.20 per share of Stratex common stock prior to the one-for-four exchange effected by the Merger).
     The foregoing description of the Combination, the Contribution and the Formation Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Formation Agreement, including the exhibits thereto, which is filed as Exhibit 2.1 hereto and incorporated into this report by reference.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     In connection with the Combination, Guy Campbell, the former president of the Microwave Communications Division of Harris was appointed the president and chief executive officer of Harris Stratex Networks, Inc. Because of this transition, Mr. Campbell will no longer be a named executive officer of Harris as contemplated by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 2.1
EXECUTION COPY
Dated: December 18, 2006
 
 
 
Harris Disclosure Letter
Stratex Disclosure Letter
 
      AMENDED AND RESTATED FORMATION, CONTRIBUTION AND MERGER AGREEMENT, dated as of December 18, 2006 (this ""), among HARRIS CORPORATION, a corporation incorporated in the State of Delaware (""), STRATEX NETWORKS, INC., a corporation incorporated in the State of Delaware (""), STRATEX MERGER CORP., a corporation incorporated in the State of Delaware (""), and HARRIS STRATEX NETWORKS, INC., a corporation incorporated in the State of Delaware ("").
Agreement
Harris
Stratex
Merger Sub
Newco
      WHEREAS, Harris and Stratex desire to combine Harris' Microwave Communications Division (as hereinafter defined) with Stratex through (i) the formation of Newco and Merger Sub, (ii) the merger of Merger Sub with and into Stratex pursuant to which the stockholders of Stratex will receive Newco shares in exchange for their Stratex shares and (iii) the contribution to Newco by Harris of the assets and equity interests collectively comprising Harris' Microwave Communications Division in exchange for Newco shares, in each case upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      WHEREAS, for federal income tax purposes, the transactions outlined above are intended collectively to qualify as a tax-free transaction under Section 351 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "");
Code
      WHEREAS, for federal income tax purposes, it is intended that the Merger (as hereinafter defined) shall qualify as a reorganization described in Section 368(a)(2)(E) of the Code;
      WHEREAS, Harris and Stratex entered into a Formation, Contribution and Merger Agreement (the ""), dated as of September 5, 2006 (the ""), that contemplated, among other things, the combination of Harris' Microwave Communications Division with Stratex as outlined above;
Original Formation Agreement
Original Formation Agreement Date
      WHEREAS, pursuant to of the Original Formation Agreement, Harris and Stratex agreed to take all necessary action to enter into an amendment of the Original Formation Agreement to add Newco and Merger Sub as parties to the Original Formation Agreement;
Section 2.4
      WHEREAS, pursuant to of the Original Formation Agreement, the Original Formation Agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented at any time prior to the Effective Time (as hereinafter defined) in a writing signed by the parties thereto;
Section 13.2
      WHEREAS, the parties to the Original Formation Agreement desire to amend and restate the Original Formation Agreement to, among other things, add additional parties as contemplated above pursuant to and on the terms and conditions set forth herein;
      WHEREAS, in order to induce Harris to enter into the Original Formation Agreement, concurrently with the execution and delivery of the Original Formation Agreement, each of the directors and executive officers of Stratex entered into voting agreements with Harris in the form attached hereto as (collectively, the "");
Exhibit 1
Voting Agreements
      WHEREAS, it is intended that Harris' Microwave Communications Division will be treated as the acquiring entity for accounting purposes; and
      WHEREAS, the Boards of Directors of each of Harris, Stratex, Newco and Merger Sub have adopted resolutions approving and declaring advisable this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and of the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements contained in this Agreement, the Voting Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements, the parties hereto agree as follows:
      1.1.      As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
Certain Definitions.
      "" has the meaning assigned to such term by Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
Affiliate
      "" means, collectively the agreements set forth in through to be entered into at the Closing.
Ancillary Agreements
Exhibit 5
Exhibit 16
      "" means all Liabilities of Harris or any of its Subsidiaries primarily resulting from or primarily arising out of the conduct of the MCD Business, other than the Excluded Liabilities; , that before applying the foregoing definition all Liabilities of Harris and/or any of its Subsidiaries which (i) are owed to third parties, (ii) result from or arise out of goods, services or facilities used or supplied by the MCD Business and any other businesses or divisions of Harris and/or any of its Subsidiaries and (iii) reasonably can be allocated among the MCD Business and such other businesses and divisions shall be so allocated to the maximum extent reasonably practicable.
Assumed Liabilities
provided, however
      "" means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks in The City of New York are authorized or obligated by Law or executive order to close.
Business Day
      "" means the Confidentiality Agreement, dated January 26, 2006, between Harris and Stratex.
Confidentiality Agreement
      "" means certificates evidencing consents of third parties that are required in order to effectuate a legal transfer or sublease of those Contributed Leases identified on
Consent Certificates
Schedule A.
      "" means, as to any Person, any contract, agreement, lease, sublease license, sublicense, mortgage, note, indenture or other arrangement or obligation (whether written or oral) which legally binds such Person.
Contract
      "" means all accounts, notes and other receivables of Harris and its Subsidiaries that arose out of the MCD Business, excluding all Harris Intercompany Liabilities.
Contributed Accounts Receivable
      "" means all books, ledgers, files, reports, plans, records, manuals and other materials (in any form or medium) of Harris and its Subsidiaries which are Related to the MCD Business, and the information contained therein, excluding any such items whose transfer to Newco would be prohibited by Law or would subject Harris or any of its Retained Subsidiaries to any material Liability (collectively, the "").
Contributed Books and Records
Excluded Books and Records
      "" means all Contracts to which Harris or any of its Subsidiaries is a party which are Related to the MCD Business other than this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements and the Excluded MCD Business Contracts.
Contributed Contracts
      "" means all furniture, furnishings, vehicles, equipment, supplies, computers, tools and other tangible personal property (other than the Contributed Inventory) owned by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries which are Related to the MCD Business, wherever located, including any of the foregoing purchased subject to any conditional sales or title retention agreement in favor of any other Person, other than the equipment, machinery and other personal property set forth on .
Contributed Fixtures and Equipment
Schedule R
 
      "" means all the Intellectual Property owned by Harris and its Subsidiaries which is Related to the MCD Business including the Intellectual Property set forth in
Contributed Intellectual Property
Section 7.2(m) of the Harris Disclosure Letter.
      "" means all inventory of Harris and its Subsidiaries, including raw materials, supplies, -progress and finished goods, which is Related to the MCD Business, wherever located.
Contributed Inventory
work-in
      "" means all real property leased or subleased pursuant to a Contributed Lease.
Contributed Leased Property
      "" means any leases or subleases of real property, fixtures or equipment from third parties by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries but only to the extent such leased real property, fixtures or equipment are Related to the MCD Business, including those set forth on
Contributed Leases
Schedule B.
      "" means the real property owned by Harris and its Retained Subsidiaries set forth on
Contributed Owned Real Property
Schedule C.
      "" means those Subsidiaries of Harris listed in
Contributed Subsidiaries
Section 7.2(b) of the Harris Disclosure Letter.
      "" means all real property owned or leased from third parties by the Contributed Subsidiaries as set forth on
Contributed Subsidiary Real Property
Schedule D.
      "" means the transfer of the Contributed Assets by Harris to Newco in exchange for the Newco Contribution Shares and the assumption by Newco of the Assumed Liabilities, in each case on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
Contribution Transaction
      "" has the meaning set forth in the "Intellectual Property" definition.
Copyrights
      "" means the Delaware General Corporation Law.
DGCL
      "" means any Retained Subsidiary that is a "United States person" within the meaning of Section 7701 of the Code.
Domestic Retained Subsidiary
      "" means any lien, pledge, charge, claim, encumbrance, security interest, option, mortgage, easement, or other restriction of any kind, other than any Permitted Encumbrance.
Encumbrance
      "" means all Laws (including any common law) relating to: (i) the protection, investigation or remediation of the environment, (ii) the handling, use, presence, treatment, storage, disposal, transport, discharge, emission, release or threatened release of or exposure to any Hazardous Substance or (iii) employee exposure, wetlands, natural resources, pollution, contamination or any injury or threat of injury to persons or property relating to any Hazardous Substance.
Environmental Laws
      "" means any obligations or liabilities (including any notices, claims, complaints, suits or other assertions of obligations or liabilities) arising from or relating to Environmental Laws, Hazardous Substances or the environment and includes, without limitation: (i) fines, penalties, judgments, awards, settlements, losses, damages (including consequential damages), costs, fees (including attorneys' and consultants' fees), expenses and disbursements relating to environmental matters; (ii) defense and other responses to any administrative or judicial action (including notices, claims, complaints, suits and other assertions of liability) relating to environmental matters; and (iii) responsibility for any investigation, remediation, monitoring or cleanup costs, injunctive relief, natural resource damages, and any other environmental compliance or remedial measures.
Environmental Liability
      "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
      "" means the European Union.
EU
      "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Exchange Act
      "" has the meanings set forth in the "Contributed Books and Records" definition.
Excluded Books and Records
 
      "" means all Liabilities of Harris and/or its Subsidiaries that (i) would not be Assumed Liabilities if the definition of such term did not exclude Excluded Liabilities or (ii) would be Assumed Liabilities if the definition of such term did not exclude Excluded Liabilities but which are (A) indebtedness for borrowed money or any guarantee thereof, (B) debt securities issued to raise cash or any guarantee thereof, (C) obligations in respect of pensions or other post-retirement benefits for MCD Employees accrued with respect to periods ending on or prior to the Closing Date, (D) claims for workers' compensation by MCD Employees in respect of injuries incurred on or prior to the Closing Date, (E) obligations for or related to any options or equity awards or other similar rights in respect of Harris Common Stock issued to and held by MCD Employees on the Closing Date, (F) those Income Taxes for which Harris is liable pursuant to and (G) listed on
Excluded Liabilities
Section 9.5(a)
Schedule E.
      "" means those Contracts identified on
Excluded MCD Business Contracts
Schedule F.
      "" means any Retained Subsidiary that is not a Domestic Retained Subsidiary.
Foreign Retained Subsidiary
      "" means U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
GAAP
      "" means any Government Entity with jurisdiction over the enforcement of any U.S. antitrust Law, EU competition Law or other similar antitrust or competition Law.
Government Antitrust Entity
      "" means any domestic or foreign governmental, regulatory or administrative authority, agency, instrumentality, commission, body, court or other entity, whether legislative, executive or judicial or otherwise, and any arbitration panel, arbitrator or other entity with authority to resolve any dispute.
Government Entity
      "" means, collectively, (i) all notices, reports, registrations, applications or other filings to or with a Government Entity, (ii) all consents, authorizations, approvals, permits, licenses, clearances, waivers, exemptions, variances, amendments, expirations and terminations of any waiting period requirements from or by any Government Entity and (iii) all other types of actions by any Government Entity.
Governmental Authorizations
      "" means the common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of Harris.
Harris Common Stock
      "" means all Liabilities of Harris or any of its Subsidiaries (including the Contributed Subsidiaries) to Harris or any of its Subsidiaries (including the Contributed Subsidiaries) immediately prior to the Effective Time other than any Assumed Liabilities owed by (i) one or more Contributed Subsidiaries to one or more other Contributed Subsidiaries, (ii) one or more Contributed Subsidiaries to Harris or any of its Subsidiaries or (iii) Harris or any of its subsidiaries to one or more Contributed Subsidiaries.
Harris Intercompany Liabilities
      "" means the Intellectual Property to be licensed to Newco and its Subsidiaries by Harris or any of its Retained Subsidiaries pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement.
Harris Licensed Intellectual Property
      "" means (i) a materially adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition, cash flow, assets, liabilities or business of the MCD Business, taken as a whole, and (ii) any effect that would prevent, materially delay or materially impair the ability of Harris to consummate, or Newco to receive the benefits of, the Contribution Transaction and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement; , that notwithstanding the foregoing no such effect resulting from (i) events or conditions (including changes in economic, financial market, regulatory or political conditions) that generally affect participants in the industries in which the MCD Business participates except to the extent that they adversely affect the MCD Business disproportionately compared such other participants or (ii) any disruption of employee, customer, supplier or other similar relationships primarily as a result of the execution or announcement of this Agreement and the identity of Stratex shall be considered a Harris Material Adverse Effect for purposes of this Agreement.
Harris Material Adverse Effect
provided, however
 
      "" means those services to be provided by Harris or any of its Retained Subsidiaries to Newco or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement.
Harris Services
      "" means any hazardous or toxic substance, material, waste, chemical, pollutant or contaminant that poses a risk of harm to health and safety or the environment and is otherwise regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law including, without limitation, any petroleum product or by-product, solvent, flammable or explosive material, radioactive material, medical waste, asbestos, lead paint, polychlorinated biphenyls (or PCBs), urea formaldehyde, perchlorate, microbial matter and radon gas.
Hazardous Substance
      "" means the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976.
HSR Act
      "" means any corporate Tax imposed on or measured in whole or in part by net income, together with all interest, penalties and additions imposed with respect to such Income Tax and any interest in respect of such penalties and additions.
Income Tax
      "" means a Tax Return with respect to an Income Tax.
Income Tax Return
      "" means (i) all liabilities for borrowed money, whether current or funded, secured or unsecured, all obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, and all liabilities in respect of mandatorily redeemable or purchasable capital stock or securities convertible into capital stock; (ii) all liabilities for the deferred purchase price of property; (iii) all liabilities in respect of any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which liabilities are required to be classified and accounted for under GAAP as capital leases; (iv) all liabilities for the reimbursement of any obligor on any letter of credit, banker's acceptance or similar credit transaction securing obligations of a type described in clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) above to the extent of the obligation secured; and (v) all liabilities as a guarantor or other surety of an obligation of a type described in clauses (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv), to the extent of the obligation guaranteed or indemnified.
Indebtedness
      "" means, with respect to any jurisdiction, domestic or foreign: (i) trademarks, service marks, brand names, certification marks, collective marks, d/b/a's, domain names, logos, symbols, trade dress, assumed names, fictitious names, trade names, and other indicia of origin, all applications and registrations and common law rights for the foregoing, and all goodwill associated therewith and symbolized thereby, including all renewals of same (collectively, ""); (ii) inventions and discoveries, whether patentable or not, and all patents, registrations, invention disclosures and applications therefor, including divisions, continuations, -part and renewal applications, and including renewals, extensions and reissues (collectively, ""); (iii) trade secrets, confidential information and know-how, including processes, schematics, business methods, formulae, drawings, prototypes, models, designs, customer lists and supplier lists (collectively, ""); (iv) published and unpublished works and rights of authorship, whether copyrightable or not (including without limitation databases and other compilations of information), including mask rights and computer software, copyrights therein and thereto, registrations and applications therefor, and all renewals, extensions, restorations and reversions thereof (collectively, ""); and (v) any other intellectual property or proprietary rights, in each case, to the extent entitled to legal protection as such.
Intellectual Property
Trademarks
continuations-in
Patents
Trade Secrets
Copyrights
      "" means the Ancillary Agreement to be entered into by Harris and Newco at the Closing in the form of attached hereto.
Investor Agreement
Exhibit 5
      "" means, when used with respect to Stratex as to any matter, to the knowledge of any of the individuals set forth on or, when used with respect to Harris as to any matter, to the knowledge of any of the individuals set forth on ; , that each such individual shall be deemed to have knowledge of any matter if such individual or any employee that directly reports to such individual has actual knowledge of such matter or of facts or circumstances that would lead a reasonable person to conclude that it is reasonably likely that such matter exists.
Knowledge
Schedule G
Schedule H
provided, however
      "" means any federal, state, regional, provincial, local or foreign law, statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, judgment, order, injunction, decree, arbitration award, agency requirement, license or permit of any Government Entity.
Law
 
      "" means that equipment, machinery and other personal property to be leased by Newco or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to any Ancillary Agreement.
Leased Equipment
      "" means any and all debts, liabilities, commitments and obligations of any kind, whether fixed, contingent or absolute, matured or unmatured, liquidated or unliquidated, accrued or not accrued, asserted or not asserted, known or unknown, determined, determinable or otherwise, whenever or however arising and whether or not the same would be required by GAAP to be reflected in financial statements or disclosed in the notes thereto.
Liabilities
      "" means any damages, losses, charges, Liabilities, claims, demands, actions, suits, proceedings, payments, judgments, settlements, assessments, deficiencies, taxes, interest, penalties, and costs and expenses (including removal costs, remediation costs, closure costs, fines, penalties and expenses of investigation and ongoing monitoring, reasonable attorneys' fees, and reasonable -pocket disbursements).
Losses
out-of
      "" means the business as currently or previously conducted by the Microwave Communications Division, which includes but is not limited to: (i) developing, distributing, manufacturing and selling microwave radios and related services and systems for use in -point wireless communications networks and (ii) the NetBoss Business.
MCD Business
point-to
      "" means, as of any date, the individuals employed by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries as of such date that are (i) primarily engaged in the MCD Business or (ii) listed on as the same may be amended after the date of the Original Formation Agreement as agreed by Harris and Stratex.
MCD Employees
Schedule I
      "" means the division of Harris which currently conducts the MCD Business and its predecessors.
Microwave Communications Division
      "" means, in the case of Harris, the audited June 30, 2006 balance sheet of the MCD Business furnished to Stratex prior to the date of this Agreement (and identified as such) and, in the case of Stratex, the balance sheet included in the most recent Stratex Report filed prior to the date of the Original Formation Agreement.
Most Recent Balance Sheet
      "" means the NASDAQ Global Market.
NASDAQ
      "" means the network operations software business as currently conducted by the MCD Business and previously conducted by Harris' Network Support division, which currently offers network management systems that provide fault management, performance management, service activation, billing mediation and operational support system integration.
NetBoss Business
      "" has the meaning set forth in the "Intellectual Property" definition.
Patents
      "" means (i) Encumbrances reflected or reserved against or otherwise disclosed in the Most Recent Balance Sheet; (ii) mechanics', materialmen's, warehousemen's, carriers', workers', or repairmen's liens or other similar common law or statutory Encumbrances, in the case of Harris, arising or incurred in the ordinary course of the MCD Business or, in the case of Stratex, arising or incurred in the ordinary course of Stratex's business and that are not material in amount or effect (individually or in the aggregate) on the MCD Business or Stratex's businesses, as the case may be; (iii) liens for Taxes, assessments and other governmental charges not yet due and payable or due but not delinquent or being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; (iv) with respect to real property, (A) easements, quasi-easements, licenses, covenants, -way, rights of reentry or other similar restrictions, including any other agreements, conditions or restrictions that would be shown by a current title report or other similar report or listing, (B) any conditions that may be shown by a current survey or physical inspection and (C) zoning, building, subdivision or other similar requirements or restrictions; (v) Encumbrances, in the case of Harris, incurred in the ordinary course of the MCD Business and, in the case of Stratex, incurred in the ordinary course of Stratex's businesses, in each case since the date of the Most Recent Balance Sheet and that are not material in amount or effect on the MCD Business or
Permitted Encumbrances
rights-of
 
Stratex's businesses, as the case may be; and (vi) Encumbrances that do not materially adversely effect the value or use of the encumbered Property.
      "" means any individual, corporation (including not-for-profit), general or limited partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, estate, trust, association, organization, Government Entity or other entity of any kind or nature.
Person
      "" means any interest in any property or asset, whether real, personal or mixed, whether tangible or intangible, and any right, however arising, whether or not such interest or right would be reflected on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Property
      "" means issued by, registered with, renewed by or the subject of a pending application before any Government Entity or Internet domain name registrar.
Registered
      "" means, with respect to any matter or thing, that such matter or thing is primarily related to, or used primarily in connection with, the MCD Business as currently conducted.
Related to the MCD Business
      "" means all Subsidiaries of Harris other than the Contributed Subsidiaries.
Retained Subsidiaries
      "" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
      "" means the Securities Act of 1933.
Securities Act
      "" means, at any time, the Board of Directors of Stratex.
Stratex Board
      "" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Stratex.
Stratex Common Stock
      "" means any shares of Stratex Common Stock owned by Stratex or any direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiary of Stratex not held on behalf of third parties.
Stratex Excluded Shares
      "" means (i) a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition, cash flow, assets, liabilities or business of Stratex and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and (ii) any effect that would prevent, materially delay or materially impair the ability of Stratex to consummate, or Newco to receive the benefits of, the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement; , that notwithstanding the foregoing no such effect resulting from (i) events or conditions (including changes in economic, financial market, regulatory or political conditions) that generally affect participants in the industries in which Stratex and its Subsidiaries participate except to the extent that they adversely affect Stratex and its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole) disproportionately compared such other participants or (ii) any disruption of employee, customer, supplier or other similar relationships primarily as a result of the execution or announcement of this Agreement and the identity of Harris shall be considered a Stratex Material Adverse Effect for purposes of this Agreement.
Stratex Material Adverse Effect
provided, however
      "" means the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
SOX Act
      "" means, with respect to any Person, (i) any corporation more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by such Person, any of its other Subsidiaries or any combination thereof or (ii) any Person other than a corporation in which such Person, any of its other Subsidiaries or any combination thereof has, directly or indirectly, majority economic ownership or the power to direct or cause the direction of the policies, management and affairs thereof; , that notwithstanding the foregoing neither Stratex, Newco nor any of their Subsidiaries shall be deemed to be a Subsidiary of Harris or any of its other Subsidiaries for purposes of this Agreement.
Subsidiary
provided, however
      "" (including, with correlative meaning, the terms "", and "") includes all federal, state, local and foreign income, profits, franchise, gross receipts, environmental, customs duty, capital stock, severances, stamp, payroll, sales, employment, unemployment, disability, use, property, withholding, excise, production, value added, occupancy and any other taxes, duties, escheat payments or assessments of any nature whatsoever, together with all interest, penalties and additions imposed with respect to such amounts and any interest in respect of such penalties and additions.
Tax
Taxes
Taxable
 
      "" means, collectively, all returns, declarations, reports estimates, information returns and statements required to be filed with any Government Entity under federal, state, local or any foreign Tax laws and any returns, forms or other documents required to be retained by either party in compliance with applicable Tax reporting and withholding.
Tax Return
      "" has the meaning set forth in the "Intellectual Property" definition.
Trade Secrets
      "" has the meaning set forth in the "Intellectual Property" definition.
Trademarks
      "" means all federal, state, local or foreign or other excise, sales, use, value added, transfer (including real property transfer or gains), stamp, documentary, filing, recordation and other similar Taxes and fees that may be imposed or assessed as a result of the Contribution Transaction and the Merger, together with any interest, additions or penalties with respect thereto and any interest in respect of such additions or penalties.
Transfer Taxes
      "" means, with respect to any Person, the total number of votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of the directors of such Person (or, if such Person is not a corporation, the individuals who perform a similar role for such Person) by all Voting Securities of such Person outstanding at such time.
Voting Power
      "" means, with respect to any Person, all securities of, or equity interests in, such Person which are entitled to vote generally in the election of the directors of such Person (or, if such Person is not a corporation, the individuals who perform a similar role for such Person).
Voting Securities
      "" means the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act and the California Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act.
WARN
      "" means the outstanding warrants of Stratex to purchase an aggregate of shares of 2,581,780 Stratex Common Stock at an exercise price of $2.95 per share.
Warrants
      1.2.      The following terms are defined in the Sections indicated:
Additional Definitions.
 
 
 
      1.3.      The definitions set forth or referred to above shall apply equally to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". All references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be deemed to be references to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement unless the context shall otherwise require. Unless the context shall otherwise require, any reference to any contract, instrument, statute, rule or regulation is a reference to it as amended and supplemented from time to time (and, in the case of a statute, rule or regulation, to any successor provision). Any reference in this Agreement to a "day" or a number of "days" (without the explicit qualification of "Business") shall be interpreted as a reference to a calendar day or number of calendar days.
Defined Terms Generally.
      2.1.      Harris has incorporated Newco as a new corporation under the laws of the State of Delaware for the sole purpose of effecting the Contribution Transaction, the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby (collectively, the ""). The certificate of incorporation of Newco is in the form of and the bylaws of Newco are in the form of (collectively, the ""). Pursuant to the Newco Governing Instruments, the authorized capital stock of Newco consists solely of shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the ""), shares of Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "" and, collectively with the Class A Common Stock, the ""), and shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share (the ""), the number of such shares to be reasonably determined by Harris and Stratex prior to the incorporation of Newco. Until the Effective Time, only one share of Newco Class B Common Stock shall be issued and outstanding (which is owned of record by Harris) and no shares of Class A Common Stock or Preferred Stock shall be issued or outstanding. The terms of the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock shall be substantially the same in all respects except that the holders of the Class B Common Stock shall have the additional right to vote separately as a class to elect the Harris Directors (as defined in ). If Harris transfers less than all of the Class B Common Stock to anyone other than an Affiliate of Harris,
Organization of Newco.
Transactions
Exhibit 2
Exhibit 3
Newco Governing Instruments
Class A Common Stock
Class B Common Stock
Common Stock
Preferred Stock
Exhibit 2
 
then the shares so transferred shall automatically and without any further action on the part of any Person convert into an equal number of shares of Class A Common Stock.
      2.2.      Immediately prior to the Effective Time, the directors and officers of Newco shall be appointed in accordance with .
Directors and Officers of Newco.
Schedule J
      2.3.      Harris has caused Newco to incorporate Merger Sub as a new corporation under the laws of the State of Delaware for the sole purpose of effecting the Merger. The certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Merger Sub are in the forms attached hereto as . Immediately prior to the Effective Time, the authorized capital stock of Merger Sub shall consist solely of 100 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "") and all of such shares shall have been issued to Newco for $1.00.
Organization of Merger Sub.
Exhibit 4
Merger Sub Stock
      3.1.      (a)      On the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, at the Closing Harris shall, or shall cause one or more of its Retained Subsidiaries to, contribute, convey, transfer, assign and deliver (collectively, "") to Newco, and Newco shall accept from Harris or such Retained Subsidiaries the following Properties (collectively, the "") free and clear of all Encumbrances: (i) all the outstanding shares of capital stock of, or other equity interests in, the Contributed Subsidiaries, (ii) $32.1 million in cash less the Aggregate Target Cash (as so adjusted, the "") and (iii) all of the right, title and interest of Harris and its Retained Subsidiaries in and to all Properties of Harris and its Retained Subsidiaries as of the Closing Date which are Related to the MCD Business other than the Excluded Assets, including the following to the extent they exist as of the Closing Date and do not constitute Excluded Assets:
The Contribution Transaction.
Contributions.
Transfer
Contributed Assets
Cash Contribution
      (i) the Contributed Accounts Receivable;
      (ii) the Contributed Books and Records;
      (iii) the Contributed Contracts;
      (iv) the Contributed Fixtures and Equipment;
      (v) the Contributed Intellectual Property;
      (vi) the Contributed Inventory;
      (vii) the Contributed Leases;
      (viii) the Contributed Owned Real Property; and
      (ix) any insurance proceeds received by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries from claims made with respect of events or circumstances occurring between the date of the Original Formation Agreement and the Closing except to the extent that such proceeds were used on or prior to the Closing to replace or acquire Property Related to the MCD Business or to satisfy Liabilities that would have otherwise been Assumed Liabilities (collectively, the "").
Contributed Insurance Proceeds
      (b)      Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, Harris and its Retained Subsidiaries shall be entitled to retain or to receive from the Contributed Subsidiaries, whether prior to or after the Closing, all of the right, title and interest of Harris and its Subsidiaries in and to the following Properties as of the Closing Date and none of such Properties shall be deemed to be a Contributed Asset (collectively, the ""):
Excluded Assets.
Excluded Assets
      (i) all Properties of Harris and its Subsidiaries which are not Related to the MCD Business;
      (ii) all Harris Intercompany Liabilities;
 
      (iii) all Excluded Books and Records;
      (iv) all Excluded MCD Business Contracts;
      (v) all Intellectual Property of Harris and its Subsidiaries listed on ;
Schedule K
      (vi) (A) all leases and subleases of real property, fixtures or equipment from third parties by Harris and its Subsidiaries other than the Contributed Leases and (B) those leases and subleases listed on ;
Schedule L
      (vii) all Tax assets (including duty and tax refunds and prepayments) of Harris or any of its Retained Subsidiaries;
      (viii) all Tax Returns of Harris or any of its Retained Subsidiaries and all Tax Return workpapers related thereto, excepting Tax Returns and related workpapers relating primarily to the MCD Business or the Contributed Assets;
      (ix) all rights in connection with, and assets of, the MCD Employee Benefit Plans;
      (x) all insurance policies and rights thereunder other than those listed on ;
Schedule M
      (xi) all invoices, shipping documents, purchase orders and other preprinted business forms that have any Trademark thereon other than those included in the Contributed Intellectual Property;
      (xii) all cash and cash equivalents;
      (xiii) all insurance proceeds which Harris or any of its Subsidiaries have a right to receive unless such proceeds are Contributed Insurance Proceeds or are reflected in the Audited Financial Statements;
      (xiv) all Governmental Authorizations of Harris and its Subsidiaries which (A) are not transferable by their terms or may not be transferred without the consent, approval, authorization or waiver of the relevant Government Entity and (B) are not required by Newco and its Subsidiaries in order to be able to continue to conduct the MCD Business after the Closing in all material respects as currently conducted by Harris and its Subsidiaries (the "");
Newco Governmental Authorizations
      (xv) the Properties set forth on ; and
Schedule N
      (xvi) the equipment, machinery and other personal property set forth on .
Schedule R
      (c)      On the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, at the Closing Newco shall assume and agree to fully discharge or perform when due all the Assumed Liabilities. Other than the Assumed Liabilities, Newco shall not assume, pay, perform, be obligated to pay or perform, or otherwise be responsible for, any Liability of Harris or any of its Retained Subsidiaries.
Assumption of Liabilities.
      (d)      On the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, at the Closing, Newco shall issue in the name of Harris or one of its Domestic Retained Subsidiaries the number of shares of Class B Common Stock which will equal 56% of the total number of shares of Common Stock which will be outstanding immediately after the Effective Time after giving effect to such issuance, the issuance of Class A Common Stock in the Merger and the conversions and changes contemplated by , and (and no other options, warrants or other rights to acquire Common Stock) determined on a fully diluted basis using the treasury stock method assuming a market price per share of Class A Common Stock equal to $20.80 (collectively, the "").
Issuance of Common Stock of Newco.
Section 6.4(a)
Section 6.4(b)
Section 6.5
Newco Contribution Shares
      3.2.      On the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, at the Effective Time Merger Sub shall be merged with and into Stratex (the "") and the separate corporate existence of Merger Sub shall thereupon cease. Stratex shall be the surviving corporation in the Merger (sometimes hereinafter referred to as the "") and the separate corporate existence of Stratex, with all its rights, privileges, powers and franchises, shall continue unaffected by the Merger. The Merger shall have the effects specified in the DGCL.
The Merger.
Merger
Surviving Corporation
 
      3.3.      Unless otherwise agreed in writing by Harris and Stratex, the closing of the Contribution Transaction and the Merger (the "") shall take place at the offices of Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, 125 Broad Street, New York, New York, on the fifth (5th) Business Day following the first day on which all of the conditions set forth in are satisfied or waived in accordance with this Agreement (other than any such conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the Closing, but subject to the satisfaction or waiver of those conditions), or at such other time, date or place as the parties hereto may mutually agree (the actual date of such Closing, the ""). The Contribution Transaction and the Merger shall be consummated simultaneously and none of the steps taken to consummate either transaction shall be deemed to have been taken or completed until all such steps have been taken and completed.
Closing.
Closing
ARTICLE X
Closing Date
      3.4.      Simultaneously with the consummation of the Contribution Transaction, Newco and Stratex will cause a Certificate of Merger (the "") to be executed, acknowledged and filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware as provided in Section 251 of the DGCL. The Merger and the Contribution Transaction shall become effective at the time when the Certificate of Merger has been duly filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware or at such later time as may be agreed by the parties and specified in the Certificate of Merger (the "").
Effective Time.
Certificate of Merger
Effective Time
      3.5.      At the Closing, Newco shall deliver to Harris the following:
Deliveries by Newco Relating to the Contribution Transaction.
      (a) a share certificate or certificates representing the Newco Contribution Shares registered in the name of Harris and/or one of its Retained Subsidiaries, as requested by Harris in writing at least two Business Days prior to the Closing;
      (b) such instruments of assumption and other documents as may be necessary or reasonably required to effect Newco's assumption of the Assumed Liabilities and acceptance and acknowledgement of the Transfer to it of the Contributed Assets, in each case in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Harris and Stratex;
      (c) a counterpart of each Ancillary Agreement duly executed by Newco; and
      (d) such other customary instruments of Transfer, assumptions, filings or documents, as may be necessary or reasonably required to give effect to transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
      3.6.      At the Closing, Harris shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to Newco the following:
Deliveries by Harris Relating to the Contribution Transaction.
      (a) the Cash Contribution in U.S. dollars by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account or accounts which have been designated by Newco at least two Business Days prior to the Closing Date;
      (b) such bills of sale or other appropriate documents of Transfer, as are necessary or reasonably required to Transfer to Newco the tangible personal property included in the Contributed Assets, in each case in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Stratex;
      (c) such assignments or other appropriate documents of Transfer as are necessary or reasonably required to Transfer the Contributed Intellectual Property to Newco, in each case in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Stratex;
      (d) such assignments or other appropriate documents of Transfer as are necessary or reasonably required to Transfer the Contributed Leases to Newco, in each case in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Stratex;
      (e) deeds for the Contributed Owned Real Property, in customary form for commercial transactions involving similar real properties and reasonably sufficient to enable Newco's title insurance company to issue title insurance in respect of the Contributed Owned Real Property;
 
      (f) certificates for, or other evidences of ownership of, all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of, or other equity interests in, the Contributed Subsidiaries which shall be registered or otherwise issued in the name of Newco or any of its Subsidiaries, as requested by Newco at least two Business Days prior to the Closing Date;
      (g) the Contributed Books and Records;
      (h) such assignments and other documents of Transfer as may be necessary or reasonably required to Transfer to Newco all of the Contributed Assets not Transferred pursuant to the foregoing clauses;
      (i) in the case of Contributed Assets transferred by Harris, by a Domestic Retained Subsidiary, or by a Foreign Retained Subsidiary that has made a valid election under Section 897(i) of the Code, a duly executed certification complying with Treasury Regulations Section 1.144502(b)(2) that such transferor is not a foreign person; that, in determining the transferor of a Contributed Asset for purposes of this , the Person that has historically been treated as the owner of such Contributed Asset for federal income tax purposes shall be deemed to be the transferor;
provided
Section 3.6(i)
      (j) a counterpart of each Ancillary Agreement duly executed by Harris;
      (k) reasonable evidence that all Required Governmental Authorizations required to be obtained or made by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries and all Harris Required Third Party Consents shall have been made or obtained;
      (l) the Consent Certificates; and
      (m) such other customary instruments of Transfer, assumptions, filings or documents, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Stratex, as may be necessary or reasonably required to give effect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
      3.7.      If the Closing proceeds without the Transfer of any Contributed Asset because Harris was not able to make or obtain any Governmental Authorization other than a Required Governmental Authorization or any consent, approval, authorization, license or waiver from a non-Government Entity other than a Harris Required Third Party Consent, then the parties shall cooperate with each other and use their commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such Governmental Authorization or consent, approval, authorization, license or waiver and effect such Transfer; , that the foregoing shall not be construed to require any party to pay any consideration therefor other than filing, recordation or similar fees which shall be paid by Newco. Until such Governmental Authorization or consent, approval, authorization, license or waiver is obtained, Newco and Harris shall enter into such arrangements (including subleasing, sublicensing or subcontracting) to provide to the parties hereto the economic (taking into account Tax costs and benefits) and operational equivalent, to the extent permitted, of effecting such Transfer. Harris shall hold in trust for and pay to Newco promptly upon receipt thereof, all income received by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with its use of the Contributed Assets not so Transferred (net of any Taxes), and Newco shall pay to Harris, promptly upon receipt of any invoice from Harris, all Losses incurred by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with such use.
Nonassignability of Assets.
provided, however
      3.8.     
Net Cash True-Up.
      (a) As soon as practicable but in no event later than 30 days following the Closing, Newco shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and deliver to Harris a statement setting forth in reasonable detail the amount of any cash transferred to Newco on the Closing Date (the "") other than the Cash Contribution (whether held in an account in the name of or for the benefit of a Contributed Subsidiary or otherwise) (the "") and the amount the Subsidiary Cash exceeds the Aggregate Target Cash (the "") or is less than the Aggregate Target Cash (the ""). To the extent the Subsidiary Cash includes amounts in currencies other than U.S. dollars, such amounts shall be deemed to have been converted into U.S. dollars for the purpose of determining whether there is Excess Cash or a Cash Shortfall using the relevant exchange rate prevailing as of the Closing Date.
Cash Statement
Subsidiary Cash
Excess Cash
Cash Shortfall
 
      (b) Harris shall complete its review of the Cash Statement within 15 days after the date on which it received the Cash Statement. If Harris does not agree with the Cash Statement prepared by Newco, then on or before the last day of such 15-day period Harris shall inform Newco in writing of its objections to the Cash Statement (collectively, the ""), setting forth such objections in reasonable detail and Harris' proposed adjustments thereto. If no Harris Objections are received by Newco on or before the last day of such 15-day period, then the Excess Cash or Cash Shortfall reflected on the Cash Statement delivered by Newco pursuant to shall be conclusive and binding on the parties. Newco shall have 15 days after the date on which it receives the Harris Objections to review and respond to the Harris Objections.
Harris Objections
Section 3.8(a)
      (c) If Harris and Newco are unable to resolve all of their disagreements as to the amount of the Excess Cash or Cash Shortfall set forth in the Harris Objections within 15 days after the end of Newco's 15-day review period, then each party may refer any remaining disagreements to an independent certified public accountant to be agreed upon in good faith by Harris and Newco (the "") which shall determine in accordance with this , and only with respect to the remaining disagreements so submitted, whether and to what extent, if any, the Excess Cash or Cash Shortfall, requires adjustment. Harris and Newco shall instruct the CPA Firm to deliver its written determination to Harris and Newco no later than 15 days after the remaining disagreements with respect to the Harris Objections that are referred to the CPA Firm. The CPA Firm's determination shall be conclusive and binding upon Harris and Newco and their Affiliates. The fees and disbursements of the CPA Firm shall be borne equally by Harris and Newco. Harris and Newco shall make readily available to the CPA Firm all relevant books and records relating to the Excess Cash, the Cash Shortfall, the Cash Statement and the Harris Objections and all other items reasonably requested by the CPA Firm in connection therewith.
CPA Firm
Section 3.8
      (d) No amounts shall be paid by any party in the event Harris and Newco determine that the Aggregate Target Cash equals the Subsidiary Amount. In the event there is Excess Cash, Newco shall have a liability to Harris equal to the amount of the Excess Cash, and Newco shall pay to Harris the Excess Cash together with interest thereon from and including the Closing Date to but excluding the payment date at the rate of 5% per annum, such payment to be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds in U.S. dollars to such account as Harris shall designate in writing to Newco no later than five Business Days after the date on which the Excess Cash is finally determined pursuant to this . In the event there is a Cash Shortfall, Harris shall have a liability to Newco equal to the amount of the Cash Shortfall, and Harris shall pay to Newco the Cash Shortfall together with interest thereon from and including the Closing Date to but excluding the payment date at the rate of 5% per annum, such payment to be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds in U.S. dollars to such account as Newco shall designate in writing to Harris no later than five Business Days after the date on which the Cash Shortfall is finally determined pursuant to this . Notwithstanding anything else contaend in this , no interest shall be due in respect of any liability, or portion thereof, owed by one party to the other pursuant to this to the extent that such liability, or portion thereof, represents interest on funds originating in a location where it is unlawful to earn such interest.
Section 3.8
Section 3.8
Section 3.8
Section 3.8
      (e) Following any payment by either Harris or Newco pursuant to this Section 3.8, under no circumstance shall the sum of (i) the Cash Contribution, (ii) the Subsidiary Cash and (iii) the Cash Shortfall (treated as a positive number) or the Excess Cash (treated as a negative number), as the case may be, exceed $32.1 million.
      3.9.     
Target Cash.
      (a) Prior to the Closing, Harris and Stratex shall agree in good faith the amount of cash (determined in the domestic currency of such Contributed Subsidiary) appropriate for the ordinary course operations of each Contributed Subsidiary (with respect to each Contributed Subsidiary, its ""). The sum of the Target Cash for each Contributed Subsidiary is collectively referred to herein as the ".
Target Cash
Aggregate Target Cash"
      (b) To the extent the Target Cash of a Contributed Subsidiary is denominated in a currency (or currencies) other than U.S. dollars, such amounts shall be deemed to have been converted into
 
U.S. dollars for the purpose of determining the Aggregate Target Cash and the Cash Contribution and using the relevant exchange rate prevailing as of the Closing Date.
      4.1.      The certificate of incorporation of Stratex as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation (the ""), until duly amended as provided therein or by applicable Law; , that at the Effective Time the Certificate of Incorporation shall be amended so that it is identical to the certificate of incorporation of Merger Sub immediately prior to the Effective Time except that the name of the Surviving Corporation shall be ""
The Certificate of Incorporation.
Certificate of Incorporation
provided, however
Stratex Networks, Inc.
      4.2.      The parties hereto shall take all actions necessary so that the bylaws of Merger Sub in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the bylaws of the Surviving Corporation (the ""), until thereafter amended as provided therein or by applicable Law.
The Bylaws.
Bylaws
      5.1.      The directors of Merger Sub at the Effective Time shall be the directors of the Surviving Corporation from and after the Effective Time until their successors have been duly elected and qualified or until their earlier death, resignation or removal in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation and the Bylaws.
Directors.
      5.2.      The officers of Merger Sub at the Effective Time shall be the officers of the Surviving Corporation from and after the Effective Time until their successors have been duly elected and qualified or until their earlier death, resignation or removal in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation and the Bylaws.
Officers.
      6.1.      At the Effective Time, as a result of the Merger and without any action on the part of Merger Sub, Stratex or any holder of any capital stock of Stratex:
Effect on Capital Stock of Stratex.
      (a)  Subject to , each share of Stratex Common Stock issued and outstanding at the Effective Time, other than Stratex Excluded Shares, shall be converted into one-fourth of a share of Class A Common Stock (the ""). At the Effective Time, all shares of Stratex Common Stock (other than Stratex Excluded Shares) shall cease to be outstanding, shall be cancelled and retired and shall cease to exist, and each certificate which prior to the Effective Time represented any such shares of Stratex Common Stock (each, a "") shall thereafter represent the shares of Class A Common Stock into which the shares of Stratex Common Stock which it formerly represented were converted by virtue of the Merger and the right, if any, to receive cash in lieu of fractional shares pursuant to and dividends or other distributions with respect to the Class A Common Stock pursuant to the last sentence of upon surrender of such Certificate in accordance with
Merger Consideration.
Section 6.2(i)
Merger Consideration
Certificate
Section 6.2(i)
Section 6.2(c)
Section 6.2.
      (b)  Each Stratex Excluded Share issued or outstanding as of the Effective Time shall be cancelled and retired and shall cease to exist without payment of any
Cancellation of Stratex Excluded Shares.
 
consideration therefor (except to the extent that such cancellation of any Stratex Excluded Shares held by Newco, Stratex or any of their respective direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiaries would result in U.S. federal income tax to Newco, Stratex or any of such Subsidiaries, in which case such Stratex Excluded Shares shall not be considered "Stratex Excluded Shares" for any purpose under this Agreement).
      (c)  Each share of Merger Sub Stock issued and outstanding at the Effective Time shall be converted into and become one fully paid and nonassessable share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Surviving Corporation and each certificate which previously represented any shares of Merger Sub Stock shall thereafter be deemed to represent the same number of shares of common stock of the Surviving Corporation.
Treatment of Merger Sub Common Stock.
      6.2.     
Exchange of Certificates.
      (a)  At the Effective Time, Newco shall deposit, or shall cause to be deposited, with an exchange agent selected by Harris with Stratex's prior approval (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) (the ""), for the benefit of the holders of shares of Stratex Common Stock, one or more certificates representing the aggregate number of shares of Class A Common Stock issuable as Merger Consideration pursuant to the Merger (collectively, the "") and any cash payable in lieu of fractional shares pursuant to  In addition, from time to time after the Effective Time, Newco will deposit with the Exchange Agent any dividends or other distributions with respect to the Class A Merger Shares to be paid or issued pursuant to the last sentence of upon due surrender of the Certificates (or affidavits of loss in lieu thereof as provided in ) pursuant to the provisions of this  The certificate(s) representing Class A Merger Shares, together with the amount of cash payable pursuant to in lieu of fractional shares and dividends or other distributions deposited with the Exchange Agent pursuant to this , are referred to as the "".
Exchange Agent.
Exchange Agent
Class A Merger Shares
Section 6.2(i).
Section 6.2(c)
Section 6.2(h)
ARTICLE VI.
Section 6.2(i)
Section 6.2(a)
Exchange Fund
      (b)  As soon as reasonably practicable after the Effective Time, the Surviving Corporation shall cause the Exchange Agent to mail to each holder of record of a Certificate (i) a letter of transmittal (which shall specify that delivery shall be effected, and risk of loss and title to the Certificates shall pass, only upon delivery of the Certificates to the Exchange Agent and shall be in such form and have such other provisions acceptable to Harris) and (ii) instructions for effecting the surrender of the Certificates in exchange for certificates representing the same number of Class A Merger Shares and any cash payable in lieu of fractional shares pursuant to and any dividends or other distributions to be paid or issued pursuant to the last sentence of  Upon surrender of a Certificate to the Exchange Agent with a duly executed copy of such letter of transmittal and compliance with all such instructions, the holder of such Certificate shall be entitled to receive in exchange therefor (A) one or more certificates representing the number of Class A Merger Shares equal to one-fourth of the number of shares of Stratex Common Stock represented by such Certificate (rounded down to the next full number of such shares), (B) a check in the amount (after giving effect to any required tax withholdings as provided in ) of any cash payable in lieu of fractional shares pursuant to any cash dividends and distributions such holder is entitled to receive upon such surrender pursuant to , and (C) any non-cash dividends or distributions such holder is entitled to receive upon such surrender, and the Certificate so surrendered shall forthwith be cancelled. No interest will be paid or accrued on any amount payable upon due surrender of the Certificates. If the issuance of a certificate representing Class A Merger Shares or any dividends or distributions is to be made to a Person other than the Person in whose name the surrendered Certificate is registered, it shall be a condition precedent to such payment that (x) the Certificate so surrendered be properly endorsed or shall be otherwise in proper form for transfer and (y) the Person requesting such payment shall have established to the satisfaction of the Surviving Corporation that all transfer and other Taxes required by reason of the payment of the Merger Consideration and any dividends or distributions to a Person other than the registered holder of the surrendered Certificate have been paid or are not required to be paid.
Exchange Procedures.
Section 6.2(i)
Section 6.2(c).
Section 6.2(g)
Section 6.2(i)
plus
Section 6.2(c)
 
      (c)  (i) All Class A Merger Shares shall be deemed issued and outstanding as of the Effective Time and whenever a dividend or other distribution is declared by Newco in respect of the Class A Common Stock with a record date at or after the Effective Time, that declaration shall include dividends or other distributions in respect of all Class A Merger Shares. No such dividends or other distributions in respect of the Class A Merger Shares shall be paid to any holder of any unsurrendered Certificate until such Certificate is surrendered for exchange in accordance with this  Subject to the effect of applicable Laws, following surrender of any such Certificate, there shall be paid and/or issued to the holder of the Class A Merger Shares issued in exchange therefor, in each case without interest, (A) at the time of such surrender, the dividends or other distributions with a record date after the Effective Time and a payment date prior to the date of such surrender with respect to such Class A Merger Shares and (B) at the appropriate payment date, the dividends or other distributions payable with respect to such Class A Merger Shares with a record date after the Effective Time but with a payment or delivery date subsequent to surrender.
Distributions with Respect to Unexchanged Shares; Voting.
ARTICLE VI.
      (ii) At any meeting of Newco's stockholders after the Effective Time, holders of unsurrendered Certificates shall be entitled to vote the number of shares of Class A Merger Shares represented by such Certificates, regardless of whether such holders have exchanged their Certificates.
      (d)  From and after the Effective Time, there shall be no transfers on the stock transfer books of Stratex of the shares of Stratex Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Transfers.
      (e)  Any portion of the Exchange Fund (including the proceeds of any investments thereof and certificates for any Class A Merger Shares) that remains unclaimed by the stockholders of Stratex for 180 days after the Effective Time shall be delivered to Newco. Any holder of Certificates who has not theretofore complied with this  shall thereafter look only to Newco for delivery of the Merger Consideration and payments of dividends and distributions pursuant to this  upon due surrender of their Certificates in each case without any interest thereon. Notwithstanding the foregoing, none of Newco, Harris, the Surviving Corporation, the Exchange Agent or any other Person shall be liable to any former holder of shares of Stratex Common Stock for any amount properly delivered to a public official pursuant to applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar laws.
Termination of Exchange Fund.
ARTICLE VI
ARTICLE VI
      (f)  The Exchange Agent shall invest any cash included in the Exchange Fund, as directed by Newco, on a daily basis. Any interest and other income resulting from such investments shall be paid to Newco.
Investment of Exchange Fund.
      (g)  Each of the Surviving Corporation and Newco shall be entitled to deduct and withhold from any amounts otherwise payable or deliverable pursuant to this to any holder of Certificates such amounts as it is required to deduct and withhold with respect to the making of such payment under the Code, or any provision of Tax Law. To the extent that amounts are so deducted and withheld by the Surviving Corporation or Newco, as the case may be, such deducted and withheld amounts shall be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having been paid to the holders of shares of Stratex Common Stock in respect of which such deduction and withholding was made.
Withholding Rights.
ARTICLE VI
      (h)  In the event any Certificate shall have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the Person (who is the record holder of such Certificate) claiming such Certificate to be lost, stolen or destroyed and, if required by Newco, the posting by such Person of a bond in customary amount and upon such terms as may be required by Newco as indemnity against any claim that may be made against it or the Surviving Corporation with respect to such Certificate, the Exchange Agent will issue in exchange for such lost, stolen or destroyed Certificate, a certificate representing the Class A Merger Shares and any dividends or other distributions that would be payable or deliverable in respect thereof pursuant to this Agreement had such lost, stolen or destroyed Certificate been surrendered.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates.
      (i)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, no fractional share of Class A Common Stock will be issued and any holder of Stratex Common Stock that would be entitled to
Fractional Shares.
 
receive a fractional share of Class A Common Stock in the absence of this  shall be entitled to receive a cash payment in lieu thereof, which payment shall be calculated by the Exchange Agent and shall represent such holder's proportionate interest in a share of Class A Common Stock assuming the price of such a share was equal to four (4) the average of the closing prices per share of Stratex Common Stock on NASDAQ for the five (5) trading days ending on the last trading day prior to the Closing Date.
Section 6.2(i)
times
      6.3.      In accordance with Section 262 of the DGCL, no appraisal rights shall be available to holders of Stratex Common Stock in connection with the Merger or the other Transactions.
No Dissenters' Rights.
      6.4.     
Treatment of Stratex Stock Plans.
      (a)  At the Effective Time, each outstanding option to purchase shares of Stratex Common Stock (a "") under the Stratex Stock Plans, whether vested or unvested, shall be converted into an option to acquire that number of shares of Class A Common Stock equal to one-fourth of the number of shares of Stratex Common Stock issuable upon exercise of such Stratex Option immediately prior to such conversion at an exercise price per share equal to four (4) the exercise price per share of Stratex Common Stock immediately prior to such conversion; , that the exercise price and the number of shares of Class A Common Stock purchasable pursuant to the Stratex Options shall be determined in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code; , that in the case of any Stratex Option to which Section 422 of the Code applies, the exercise price and the number of shares of Class A Common Stock purchasable pursuant to such option shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing, subject to such adjustments as are necessary in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 424(a) of the Code. Except as specifically provided above, following the Effective Time, each Stratex Option shall continue to be governed by the same terms and conditions as were applicable under such Stratex Option immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Treatment of Options.
Stratex Option
times
provided, however
provided, further
      (b)  At the Effective Time, each right of any kind, contingent or accrued, to acquire or receive shares of Stratex Common Stock or benefits measured by the value of shares of Stratex Common Stock and each award of any kind consisting of shares of Stratex Common Stock that may be held, awarded, outstanding, payable or reserved for issuance under the Stratex Stock Plans and any other Stratex Benefits Plan, in each case other than Stratex Options (each, a ""), shall be converted into the right to acquire, or the right to receive benefits measured by the value of, the number of shares of Class A Common Stock equal to one-fourth of the number of shares of Stratex Common Stock underlying such Stratex Award (rounded down to the nearest whole number) immediately prior to such conversion, and if such Stratex Award determines such rights by reference to the extent the value of the shares of Stratex Common Stock exceed a specified reference price, at a reference price per share of Class A Common Stock (rounded up to the nearest whole cent) equal to four (4) the reference price per share of Stratex Common Stock. Except as specifically provided above, following the Effective Time, each Stratex Award shall otherwise be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable to the rights under the relevant Stratex Stock Plan or other Stratex Benefit Plan immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Stratex Awards.
Stratex Award
times
      (c)  If, in connection with the satisfaction of the obligations set forth in and , registration of any interests in the Stratex Stock Plans or other Stratex Benefit Plans or the shares of Class A Common Stock issuable pursuant to or is required under the Securities Act, Newco shall file with the SEC as promptly as practicable after the Effective Time a registration statement on Form  with respect to such interests or Class A Common Stock, and shall use its reasonable best efforts to maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement for so long as the Stratex Stock Plans or other Stratex Benefit Plans, as applicable, remain in effect and such registration of interests therein or the shares of Class A Common Stock issuable thereunder continues to be required. As soon as practicable after the registration of such interests or shares, as applicable, Newco shall deliver to the holders of Stratex Options and Stratex Awards appropriate notices setting forth such holders' rights pursuant to the respective Stratex Stock Plans and agreements evidencing the grants of such
Registration.
Section 6.4(a)
Section 6.4(b)
Section 6.4(a)
Section 6.4(b)
S-8
 
Stratex Options and Stratex Awards, and stating that such Stratex Options and Stratex Awards and agreements have been assumed by Newco and shall continue in effect on the same terms and conditions (subject to the adjustments required by this after giving effect to the Merger and the terms of the Stratex Stock Plans).
Section 6.4(c)
      (d)  At or prior to the Effective Time, (i) Stratex, the Stratex Board and the compensation committee of the Stratex Board, as applicable, shall adopt all resolutions and take all actions which are necessary to implement the provisions of and and (ii) Newco shall take all actions which are necessary to assume and perform the Stratex Options and Stratex Awards converted pursuant to and including the reservation, issuance (subject to ) and listing of Class A Common Stock as necessary to effect the transactions contemplated by this Stratex shall take all actions necessary to ensure that from and after the Effective Time neither Newco nor the Surviving Corporation will be required to deliver shares of Stratex Common Stock or other capital stock of Stratex to any Person pursuant to or in settlement of Stratex Options or Stratex Awards.
Corporate Actions.
Section 6.4(a)
Section 6.4(b)
Section 6.4(a)
Section 6.4(b)
Section 6.4(c)
Section 6.4.
      6.5.      At the Effective Time, pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions contained in the Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 21, 2004 (the ""), between Stratex and those Persons identified on to the Warrant Agreement, each Warrant shall automatically become exercisable for that number of shares of Class A Common Stock equal to one-fourth of the number of shares of Stratex Common Stock issuable upon exercise of such Warrant immediately prior to the Effective Time at an exercise price per share of Class A Common Stock equal to four (4) the exercise price of such Warrant per share of Stratex Common Stock immediately prior to the Effective Time. Concurrently with the Effective Time, Newco shall assume the obligation to deliver shares of Class A Common Stock to those Persons who are the record holders of the Warrants by entering into the Warrant Assumption Agreement, to be dated as of the Closing Date, in the form attached hereto as providing for certain adjustments to the Warrants as specified in, and as required by, the Warrant Agreement.
Treatment of Warrants.
Warrant Agreement
Schedule I
times
Exhibit 12
      7.1.      Except as set forth in the disclosure letter (subject to dated as of the Original Formation Agreement Date and delivered to Harris by Stratex prior to entering into the Original Formation Agreement and identified as such (the ""), Stratex hereby represents and warrants to Harris on the Original Formation Agreement Date that:
Representations and Warranties of Stratex.
Section 13.11(c))
Stratex Disclosure Letter
      (a)  Each of Stratex and each of its Subsidiaries is a corporation or other legal entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of its respective jurisdiction of organization (to the extent the "good standing" concept is applicable in the case of any jurisdiction outside the United States) and has all requisite corporate or other legal entity power and authority to own and operate its properties and assets and to carry on its business as presently conducted and is qualified to do business and is in good standing as a foreign corporation or other legal entity in each jurisdiction where such ownership, operation or conduct requires such qualification (to the extent the "good standing" concept is applicable in the case of any jurisdiction outside the United States), except for any such failures to be so organized, qualified or in good standing or to have such power or authority that, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to result in a Stratex Material Adverse Effect. Stratex has made available to Harris a complete and correct copy of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws (or other comparable governing instruments) of Stratex and each of its Subsidiaries, each as amended to the date of the Original Formation Agreement, and each certificate of incorporation or bylaws (or other comparable governing instruments) so delivered is in full force and effect. Stratex is in compliance with the terms of its certificate of incorporation as amended through the date of the Original Formation Agreement (the "") and its bylaws as amended through
Organization, Good Standing and Qualification.
Stratex Certificate
 
the date of the Original Formation Agreement (the "" and, collectively with the Stratex Certificate, the "").
Stratex Bylaws
Stratex Governing Instruments
      (b)  The authorized capital stock of Stratex consists solely of 150,000,000 shares of Stratex Common Stock, of which 97,690,241 shares were issued and outstanding as of the close of business on September 1, 2006, and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock of Stratex, par value $0.01 per share (""), of which no shares were issued or outstanding as of the date of the Original Formation Agreement. Since September 1, 2006, Stratex has not issued any shares of Stratex Common Stock. All of the outstanding shares of Stratex Common Stock have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable. Stratex has no shares of Stratex Common Stock or Stratex Preferred Stock reserved for issuance other than (i) 15,530,000 shares of Stratex Common Stock reserved for issuance pursuant to those plans of Stratex identified in (the ""), (ii) 200,000 shares of Stratex Preferred Stock reserved for issuance pursuant to the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of November 3, 1998 (the "") between Stratex and Mellon Shareholder Services, LLC (formerly ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, LLC), and (iii) 2,581,780 shares of Stratex Common Stock reserved for issuance upon the exercise of warrants for shares of Stratex Common Stock with an exercise price of $2.95 per share. The Rights Agreement has expired and no longer has any legal force or effect, and Stratex has not entered into or adopted or implemented any other shareholder rights or similar plan. contains a correct and complete list of each outstanding option, restricted stock grant or other right under the Stratex Stock Plans, including the holder, date of grant, term, number of shares of Stratex Common Stock and, where applicable, exercise price and vesting schedule, as well as whether the vesting will be accelerated by the execution of this Agreement or consummation of the Transactions or by termination of employment or change of position following consummation of the Merger. Each of the outstanding shares of capital stock of, or other equity interest in, each of Stratex's Subsidiaries is duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and is owned by Stratex or by a direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiary of Stratex, free and clear of any Encumbrance. Except as described above in this , there are no preemptive or other options, warrants, rights, conversion rights, convertible or exchangeable securities, "phantom" stock rights, stock appreciation rights, redemption rights, repurchase rights, calls, stock-based performance units, commitments, Contracts, agreements, arrangements or undertakings of any kind to which Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which any of them is bound (i) obligating Stratex or any such Subsidiary to issue, deliver or sell, or cause to be issued, delivered or sold, shares of capital stock or other equity interests in, or any security convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, any capital stock of or other equity interest in, Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries or any Voting Debt, (ii) obligating Stratex or any such Subsidiary to issue, grant, extend or enter into any such option, warrant, call, right, security, commitment, Contract, arrangement or undertaking or (iii) that give any Person the right to receive any economic benefit or right similar to or derived from the economic benefits and rights occurring to holders of shares of capital stock of, or other equity interests in, or any security convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, any capital stock of, or other equity interest in, Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries or any Voting Debt, and no such obligations, instruments or securities are authorized, issued or outstanding. There are no voting trusts or other arrangements or understandings to which Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries is a party with respect to the voting, the dividend rights or disposition of any capital stock of, or other equity interest in, Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries. Stratex does not have outstanding any bonds, debentures, notes or other obligations the holders of which have the right to vote (or are convertible into or exercisable for securities having the right to vote) with the stockholders of Stratex on any matter (""). Each Stratex Option (i) was granted in compliance with all applicable Laws and all of the terms and conditions of the Stratex Stock Plan pursuant to which it was issued, (ii) has an exercise price per share of Stratex Common Stock equal to or greater than the fair market value of a share of Stratex Common Stock on the date of such grant, (iii) has a grant date identical to the date on which the Stratex Board or its compensation committee actually awarded such Stratex Option and (iv) qualifies for the tax and accounting treatment afforded to such Stratex Option in Stratex's tax returns and the financial statements included in the Stratex Reports, respectively. Stratex does not own, directly or indirectly, any voting interest that may
Capital Structure.
Stratex Preferred Stock
Section 7.1(b) of the Stratex Disclosure Letter
Stratex Stock Plans
Rights Agreement
Section 7.1(b) of the Stratex Disclosure Letter
Section 7.1(b)
Voting Debt
 
require a filing by Newco, Harris or any of their Subsidiaries under the HSR Act. Exhibit 21.1 to Stratex's Annual Report on Form  for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, sets forth all of the Subsidiaries of Stratex as of the date of the Original Formation Agreement.
10-K
      (c)  (i) Stratex has all requisite corporate power and authority and has taken all corporate action necessary in order to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Agreement and to consummate the Merger and the other Transactions to which it is a party (collectively, the ""), in each case subject only to adoption of this Agreement by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Stratex Common Stock (the ""). This Agreement is a valid and legally binding obligation of Stratex enforceable against Stratex in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles (the "").
Corporate Authority; Approval and Fairness.
Stratex Transactions
Stratex Requisite Vote
Bankruptcy and Equity Exception
      (ii) At a meeting duly called and held prior to execution of this Agreement, the Stratex Board unanimously adopted resolutions (A) approving, adopting and declaring advisable this Agreement and the Transactions and determining that the terms of the Transactions are fair to, and in the best interests of, Stratex and the holders of Stratex Common Stock (collectively, the "") and (B) recommending that the holders of Stratex Common Stock vote to adopt this Agreement (the ""). Such resolutions are sufficient to cause Section 203 of the DGCL not to apply to any of Harris, Newco or Merger Sub with respect to any of the Transactions or any other transaction following the Closing.
Board Approval
Board Recommendation
      (iii) The Stratex Board has received the written opinion of its financial advisor, Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. (""), dated as of the date of the Original Formation Agreement, to the effect that, on the basis of and subject to the matters set forth therein and assuming the simultaneous consummation of the Contribution Transaction, as of such date the exchange of one share of Class A Common Stock for four (4) outstanding shares of Stratex Common Stock in the Merger is fair, from a financial point of view, to the holders of Stratex Common Stock. A signed copy of such opinion has been delivered to Harris.
Bear Stearns
      (d) 
Governmental Filings; No Violations; Consents; and Approvals.
      (i) Other than the filings or notices (A) pursuant to , and , (B) required under the HSR Act or (C) required to be made under the Exchange Act or with NASDAQ, no Governmental Authorizations are required to be obtained or made by Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by Stratex or the consummation by Stratex of the Stratex Transactions.
Section 2.1
Section 2.3
Section 3.4
      (ii) The execution, delivery and performance by Stratex of this Agreement do not, and the consummation by Stratex of the Stratex Transactions do not and will not, constitute or result in (A) a breach or violation of, or a default under, the Stratex Governing Documents or the comparable governing instruments of any of its Subsidiaries, (B) a breach or violation of, a termination (or right of termination) or a default under or the acceleration of any obligations or the creation of any Encumbrance on the assets of Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries (with or without notice, lapse of time or both) pursuant to, any Contract binding upon Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries or, assuming that the necessary consents, approvals and filings referred to in clauses (A) through (C) of are duly obtained and/or made, any Laws, Governmental Authorizations or non governmental permit or license to which Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries is subject or (C) any change in the rights or obligations of any party under any such Contracts, Governmental Authorizations, permits or licenses, except, in the case of the foregoing clauses (B) or (C) only, for any breach, violation, termination, default, acceleration, change or creation that, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to result in a Stratex Material Adverse Effect. sets forth a correct and complete list of Stratex Material Contracts pursuant to which consents or waivers are or may be required prior to consummation of the Transactions (whether or not subject to the exception set forth with respect to clauses (B) and (C) above).
Section 7.1(d)(i)
Section 7.1(d) of the Stratex Disclosure Letter
 
      (iii) Without limiting the generality of clause (ii) above, neither the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement by Stratex nor the consummation by Stratex of the Stratex Transactions will require the receipt of any consent pursuant to, or give rise to any right of termination under, any of the Stratex Material Contracts except for any such consents and any such termination rights which, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Stratex Material Adverse Effect if not obtained (in the case of such consents) or if exercised (in the case of such termination rights).
      (iv)  sets forth a correct and complete list of all material claims held by Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries, as creditors or claimants, with respect to debtors or -possession subject to proceedings under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code (the ""), together with a correct and complete list of all orders entered by the applicable United States Bankruptcy Court with respect to each such proceeding. None of such orders, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in a Stratex Material Adverse Effect.
Section 7.1(d) of the Stratex Disclosure Letter
debtors-in
Bankruptcy Code
      (e)  (i) Stratex has made available to Harris each registration statement, report, form, proxy or information statement or other document filed or furnished by Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries with or to the SEC since March 31, 2006 (the ""), including Stratex's Annual Report on Form  for the year ended March 31, 2006, each in the form (including exhibits, annexes and any amendments thereto) filed with the SEC (collectively with each other, any such registration statements, reports, forms, proxy or information statements or other documents so filed or furnished subsequent to the date of the Original Formation Agreement and any amendments to any of the foregoing, the ""). Stratex and its Subsidiaries have filed or furnished, as applicable, with or to the SEC all registration statements, reports, forms, proxy or information statements and other documents required to be so filed or furnished by them pursuant to applicable securities statutes, regulations, policies and rules since the Stratex Audit Date. Each of the Stratex Reports, at the time first filed with or furnished to the SEC, complied or will comply (as applicable) in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act and Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder and complied in all material respects with the then applicable accounting standards. As of their respective dates, the Stratex Reports did not, and any Stratex Reports filed with the SEC subsequent to the date of the Original Formation Agreement will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading. The Stratex Reports included or will include all certificates required to be included therein pursuant to Sections 302 and 906 of the SOX Act, and the internal control report and attestation of Stratex's outside auditors required by Section 404 of the SOX Act.
Stratex Reports; Financial Statements.
Stratex Audit Date
10-K
Stratex Reports
      (ii) Each of the consolidated balance sheets included in or incorporated by reference into the Stratex Reports (including the related notes and schedules) fairly presents or, in the case of Stratex Reports filed or furnished after the date of the Original Formation Agreement, will fairly present, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Stratex and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of its date and each of the consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows included in or incorporated by reference into the Stratex Reports (including any related notes and schedules) fairly presents or, in the case of Stratex Reports filed or furnished after the date of the Original Formation Agreement, will fairly present, in all material respects, the consolidated results of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows, respectively, of Stratex and its consolidated subsidiaries for the periods set forth therein (subject, in the case of unaudited statements, to notes and normal year-end audit adjustments that will not be material in amount or effect), in each case in accordance with GAAP consistently applied during the periods involved, except as may be noted therein.
      (iii) Stratex is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of the SOX Act and the applicable listing and corporate governance rules and regulations of NASDAQ.
      (iv) The management of Stratex has (A) designed and implemented disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule  of the Exchange Act) which management reasonably believes
13a-15(e)
 
will ensure that material information relating to Stratex, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to the management of Stratex by others within those entities and (B) has disclosed, based on its most recent evaluation, to Stratex's outside auditors and the audit committee of the Stratex Board (1) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting (as defined in Rule  of the Exchange Act) which are reasonably likely to adversely affect Stratex's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data and (2) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in Stratex's internal controls over financial reporting. Stratex has made available to Harris a summary of any such disclosure made by management since March 31, 2004. Since the Stratex Audit Date, any material change in internal controls over financial reporting required to be disclosed in any Stratex Report has been so disclosed.
13a-15(f)
      (v) Since the date of their last certification filed with the SEC, neither the chief executive officer nor the chief financial officer of Stratex has become aware of any fact, circumstance or change that is or is reasonably likely to result in a "significant deficiency" or a "material weakness" in Stratex's internal controls over financial reporting, other than as disclosed in the Stratex Reports filed prior to the date of the Original Formation Agreement.
      (vi) Since March 31, 2003, (A) neither Stratex nor any of its Subsidiaries nor, to the Knowledge of Stratex, any director, officer, employee, auditor, accountant or representative of Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries, has received or otherwise had or obtained Knowledge of any material complaint, allegation, assertion or claim, whether written or oral, regarding the accounting or auditing practices, procedures, methodologies or methods of Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries or their respective internal accounting controls, including any material complaint, allegation, assertion or claim that Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries has engaged in questionable accounting or auditing practices and (B) no attorney representing Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries, whether or not employed by Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries, has reported evidence of a material violation of the securities Laws, breach of fiduciary duty or similar violation by Stratex or any of its officers, directors, employees or agents to the Stratex Board or any committee thereof or, to the Knowledge of any officer of Stratex, to any director or officer of Stratex.
      (vii) Since March 31, 2004, each registration statement of Stratex (including exhibits, annexes and any amendments or supplements thereto) filed with the SEC pursuant to the Securities Act, as of the date such registration statement or amendment became effective, did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements made therein not misleading.
      (f)  None of the information supplied or to be supplied by Stratex for inclusion or incorporation by reference in the registration statement on Form  of Newco (together with any amendments or supplements thereto, the ""), pursuant to which the shares of Class A Common Stock issuable in connection with the Merger will be registered with the SEC pursuant to the Securities Act, or the proxy statement/ prospectus (together with any amendments or supplements thereto, the "") included in the Registration Statement which is to be sent to the stockholders of Stratex in connection with the Stratex Stockholder Meeting shall (i) in the case of the Registration Statement, at the time it is filed with the SEC or at the time it is declared effective by the SEC, or becomes effective, or (ii) in the case of the Proxy Statement, at the time it is mailed to the stockholders of Stratex or at the time of the Stratex Stockholder Meeting contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading (in the case of the Proxy Statement/ Prospectus only, in light of the circumstances under which they are made).
Information Supplied.
S-4
Registration Statement
Proxy Statement/ Prospectus
      (g)  Since the Stratex Audit Date, Stratex and its Subsidiaries have conducted their respective businesses only in, and have not engaged in any material transaction other than in accordance with, the ordinary course of such businesses. Since the Stratex Audit Date and on or prior to the date of the Original Formation Agreement, there has not been any event, occurrence, discovery or development that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a
Absence of Certain Changes.
 
Stratex Material Adverse Effect. On or after the Stratex Audit Date and on or prior to the date of the Original Formation Agreement, none of the actions or events described in clauses (a) through (w) of has been taken or has occurred.
Section 8.1
      (h)      (i) There are no civil, criminal or administrative actions, suits, demands, claims, hearings, litigations, arbitrations, investigations or other proceedings pending or, to the Knowledge of Stratex, threatened against Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates by, before or with any Government Entity or any other Person. None of Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates is a party to, or subject to the provisions of, any judgment, order, writ, injunction, decree or award of any Government Entity.
Litigation and Liabilities.
      (ii) There are no liabilities or obligations of Stratex or any Subsidiary of Stratex, whether or not accrued, contingent or otherwise and whether or not required to be disclosed, or any other facts or circumstances that would reasonably be expected to result in any obligations or liabilities of, Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries, other than those:
      (i)     
Employee Benefits.
      (i) All benefit and compensation plans, contracts, policies or arrangements covering current or former employees of Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries and current or former directors of Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries, including any "employee benefit plans" within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA, and any deferred compensation, stock option, stock purchase, stock appreciation rights, stock based, incentive, bonus, workers' compensation, short term disability, vacation and severance plans and all employment, severance and change in control agreements, and all amendments thereto (the "") are listed in , and each Stratex Benefit Plan which is intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code, including any master or prototype plan, has been separately identified. True and complete copies of all Stratex Benefit Plans listed in , including any trust instruments, insurance contracts and, with respect to any employee stock ownership plan, loan agreements forming a part of any Stratex Benefit Plans, and all amendments thereto have been provided or made available to Harris.
Stratex Benefit Plans
Section 7.1(i)(i) of the Stratex Disclosure Letter
Section 7.1(i)(i) of the Stratex Disclosure Letter
      (ii) No Stratex Benefit Plan is a "multi-employer plan" within the meaning of Section 3(37) of ERISA (a ""). All Stratex Benefit Plans are in substantial compliance with ERISA, the Code and other applicable Laws. Each Stratex Benefit Plan which is subject to ERISA (the "") that is an "employee pension benefit plan" within the meaning of Section 3(2) of ERISA (a "") and that is intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code, has received a favorable determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service ("") for all Tax Law changes prior to the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 or has applied to the IRS for such favorable determination letter within the applicable remedial amendment period under Section 401(b) of the Code, and Stratex is not aware of any circumstances likely to result in the loss of the qualification of such Stratex Pension Plan under Section 401(a) of the Code. Any voluntary employees' beneficiary association within the meaning of Section 501(c)(9) of the Code which provides benefits under a Stratex Benefit Plan has (A) received an opinion letter from the IRS recognizing its exempt status under Section 501(c)(9) of the Code and (B) filed a timely notice with the IRS pursuant
Multi-Employer Plan
Stratex ERISA Plans
Stratex Pension Plan
IRS
 
to Section 505(c) of the Code, and Stratex is not aware of circumstances likely to result in the loss of such exempt status under Section 501(c)(9) of the Code. Neither Stratex nor any of its Subsidiaries has engaged in a transaction with respect to any Stratex ERISA Plan that, assuming the Taxable period of such transaction expired as of the date of the Original Formation Agreement, would subject Stratex or any Subsidiary to a Tax or penalty imposed by either Section 4975 of the Code or Section 502(i) of ERISA in an amount that would be material. Neither Stratex nor any of its Subsidiaries has incurred or reasonably expects to incur a Tax or penalty imposed by Section 4980F of the Code or Section 502 of ERISA or any Liability under Section 4071 of ERISA.
      (iii) No Liability under Subtitle C or D of Title IV of ERISA has been or is expected to be incurred by Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries with respect to any ongoing, frozen or terminated "single-employer plan", within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, currently or formerly maintained by any of them, or the single-employer plan of any entity which is considered one employer with Stratex under Section 4001 of ERISA or Section 414 of the Code (a ""). No notice of a "reportable event", within the meaning of Section 4043 of ERISA for which the 30 day reporting requirement has not been waived or extended, other than pursuant to Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("") Reg. Section 4043.66, has been required to be filed for any Stratex Pension Plan or by any Stratex ERISA Affiliate within the 12 month period ending on the date of the Original Merger Agreement or will be required to be filed in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. No notices have been required to be sent to participants and beneficiaries or the PBGC under Section 302 or 4011 of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code.
Stratex ERISA Affiliate
PBGC
      (iv) All contributions required to be made under each Stratex Benefit Plan, as of the date of the Original Formation Agreement, have been timely made and all obligations in respect of each Stratex Benefit Plan have been properly accrued and reflected in the most recent consolidated balance sheet filed or incorporated by reference in the Stratex Reports prior to the date of the Original Formation Agreement. Neither any Stratex Pension Plan nor any single-employer plan of a Stratex ERISA Affiliate has an "accumulated funding deficiency" (whether or not waived) within the meaning of Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA and neither Stratex nor any Stratex ERISA Affiliate has an outstanding funding waiver. It is not reasonably anticipated that required minimum contributions to any Stratex Pension Plan under Section 412 of the Code will be materially increased by application of Section 412(l) of the Code. Neither Stratex nor any of its Subsidiaries has provided, or is required to provide, security to any Stratex Pension Plan or to any single-employer plan of a Stratex ERISA Affiliate pursuant to Section 401(a)(29) of the Code.
      (v) Under each Stratex Pension Plan which is a single-employer plan, as of the last day of the most recent plan year ended prior to the date of the Original Formation Agreement, the actuarially determined present value of all "benefit liabilities", within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(16) of ERISA (as determined on the basis of the actuarial assumptions contained in such Stratex Pension Plan's most recent actuarial valuation), did not exceed the then current value of the assets of such Stratex Pension Plan, and there has been no material change in the financial condition of such Stratex Pension Plan since the last day of the most recent plan year.
      (vi) Neither Stratex nor any of its Subsidiaries has any obligations for retiree health and life benefits under any Stratex Benefit Plan or collective bargaining agreement. Stratex or its Subsidiaries may amend or terminate any Stratex Benefit Plan providing retiree health or life benefits at any time without incurring any Liability thereunder other than in respect of claims incurred prior to such amendment or termination.
      (vii) There has been no amendment to, or announcement by Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries relating to, or change in employee participation or coverage under, any Stratex Benefit Plan which would increase materially the expense of maintaining such Stratex Benefit Plan above the level of the expense incurred therefor for the most recent fiscal year. Neither the execution of this Agreement, stockholder adoption of this Agreement nor the consummation of the Transactions will (A) entitle any employees of Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries to severance pay or benefits or any increase in severance pay or benefits upon any termination of employment after the date of the Original Formation Agreement, (B) accelerate
 
the time of payment or vesting or result in any payment or funding (through a grantor trust or otherwise) of compensation or benefits under, increase the amount payable or result in any other obligation pursuant to, any of the Stratex Benefit Plans, (C) limit or restrict the right of Stratex or, after the consummation of the Transactions, Newco to merge, amend or terminate any of the Stratex Benefit Plans or (D) result in payments under any of the Stratex Benefit Plans which would not be deductible under Section 162(m) or Section 280G of the Code. None of Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries has entered into any contract, agreement or arrangement with any officer or director of Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with or in contemplation of any of the Transactions.
      (viii) There are no outstanding loans to any employee of Stratex from Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries other than claims any such employee may have under a Stratex Benefit Plan covering such employee of Stratex. As of the date of the Original Formation Agreement, there is no pending, or the Knowledge of Stratex, threatened investigations or other proceedings by or with any Government Entity or litigation relating to the Stratex Benefit Plans.
      (j)      The businesses of each of Stratex and each of its Subsidiaries have not been, and are not being, conducted in material violation of any applicable Law. To the Knowledge of Stratex, no material change is required in Stratex's or any of its Subsidiaries' processes, properties or procedures for them to continue to comply with such Laws, and Stratex has not received any notice or communication of any material noncompliance with any such Laws that has not been cured as of the date of the Original Formation Agreement. Stratex and each of its Subsidiaries have obtained and are in substantial compliance with all material Governmental Authorizations required or necessary for the conduct of their businesses and the use of their properties and assets as presently conducted and used, and neither Stratex nor any of its Subsidiaries has received written notice from any Government Entity of any material noncompliance with any such Governmental Authorizations that has not been cured as of the date of the Original Formation Agreement.
Compliance with Laws and Regulations; Governmental Authorizations.
      (k)  The Stratex Board has taken (and not revoked) all action necessary to ensure that Section 203 of the DGCL will not impose any additional procedural, voting, approval, fairness or other restrictions on the timely consummation of the Transactions or restrict, impair or delay the ability of (i) Newco or Merger Sub to engage in any of the Transactions with Stratex, (ii) Newco to engage in any of the Transactions with Harris, (iii) Newco or Merger Sub to vote or otherwise exercise all rights as a stockholder of Stratex or (iv) Harris to vote or otherwise exercise all rights as a stockholder of Newco or (v) Harris to exercise or enforce any rights under any of the Ancillary Agreements. No "fair price", "moratorium", "control share acquisition" or other similar anti-takeover statute or regulation (each, a "") or any anti-takeover provision in Stratex's certificate of incorporation or bylaws is applicable to the shares of Stratex Common Stock or the Transactions.
Takeover Statutes.
Takeover Statute
      (l)  There are no loans, leases or other continuing transactions between Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries and any present or former stockholder, director or officer thereof or any member of such officer's, director's or stockholder's family, or any Person controlled (within the meaning of such term in Rule  under the Exchange Act) by such executive officer, director or stockholder or his or her family that are not disclosed pursuant to Item 404 of SEC Regulation  in the Stratex Reports.
Affiliate Transactions.
12b-2
S-K
      (m)  Except as would not reasonably be expected to result in a Stratex Material Adverse Effect:
Environmental Matters.
      (i) to the Knowledge of Stratex, Stratex and its Subsidiaries have materially complied at all times with all applicable Environmental Laws;
      (ii) to the Knowledge of Stratex, no property currently owned, leased or operated by Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries (including soils, groundwater, surface water, buildings or other structures) is contaminated with any Hazardous Substance in a manner that has given or could reasonably be expected to give rise to any Environmental Liability;
 
      (iii) to the Knowledge of Stratex, no property formerly owned, leased or operated by Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries was contaminated with any Hazardous Substance during or prior to such period of ownership, leasehold or operation in a manner that has given or could reasonably be expected to give rise to any Environmental Liability;
      (iv) to the Knowledge of Stratex, neither Stratex nor any of its Subsidiaries has incurred any Environmental Liabilities concerning any third party property;
      (v) neither Stratex nor any of its Subsidiaries has received any notice, demand, letter, claim or request for information alleging that Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries may be in violation of or subject to liability under any Environmental Law;
      (vi) neither Stratex nor any of its Subsidiaries is subject to any order, decree, injunction or agreement with any Government Entity, or any indemnity or other agreement with any third party, concerning liability or obligations relating to any Environmental Law or otherwise relating to any Hazardous Substance;
      (vii) to the Knowledge of Stratex, there are no other circumstances or conditions involving Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries that could reasonably be expected to result in any Environmental Liability; and
      (viii) Stratex has delivered to Harris or made available copies of all environmental reports, studies, assessments and sampling data in its possession relating to Stratex, its Subsidiaries or their current or former properties or operations.
      (n)  Stratex and each of its Subsidiaries (i) have prepared in good faith and duly and timely filed (taking into account any extension of time within which to file) all Tax Returns required to be filed by any of them and all such filed Tax Returns are complete and accurate in all material respects; (ii) have paid all Taxes that are shown as due on such filed Tax Returns or that Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries are obligated to collect or withhold from amounts owing to or payable from any employee, creditor or third party, except with respect to matters contested in good faith; and (iii) have not waived any statute of limitations with respect to Taxes or agreed to any extension of time with respect to a Tax assessment or deficiency. As of the date of the Original Formation Agreement, there are not pending or, to the Knowledge of Stratex, threatened in writing, any audits, examinations, investigations or other proceedings against Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries in respect of Taxes or Tax matters. There are not, to the Knowledge of Stratex, any unresolved questions or claims concerning Stratex's or any of its Subsidiaries' Tax liability that are reasonably likely to have a Stratex Material Adverse Effect and are not disclosed or provided for in the Stratex Reports. Stratex has made available to Harris true and correct copies of the United States federal income Tax Returns (including all schedules and attachments thereto) filed by Stratex and its Subsidiaries for each of its fiscal years ended March 31, 2005, March 31, 2004 and March 31, 2003. Neither Stratex nor any of its Subsidiaries has any liability with respect to income, franchise or other Taxes that accrued on or before March 31, 2005 in excess of the amounts accrued with respect thereto that are reflected in the financial statements included in the Stratex Reports filed on or prior to the date of the Original Formation Agreement. Neither Stratex nor any of its Subsidiaries has been a party to the distribution of stock of a controlled corporation as defined in Section 355(a) of the Code in a transaction intended to qualify under Section 355 of the Code within the past two years. For any transaction in which Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries entered into an agreement to treat a stock purchase as an asset purchase for United States federal income tax purposes, a valid election under Section 338 of the Code was timely filed with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. None of Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries has engaged in any transactions that are the same as, or substantially similar to, any transaction which is a "reportable transaction" for purposes of Treasury Regulation  1.6011-4(b) (including without limitation any transaction which the Internal Revenue Service has determined to be a "listed transaction" for purposes of Treasury Regulation   Neither Stratex nor any of its Subsidiaries has any current plan or intention to distribute to Newco any assets owned by Stratex at the Effective Time.
Taxes.
1.6011-4(b)(2)).
 
      (o) 
Intellectual Property.
      (i)  sets forth as of the date of the Original Formation Agreement, a true, correct and complete list of, with respect to the Stratex Intellectual Property, (A) all Registered Trademarks and material unregistered Trademarks; (B) all Registered Patents, (C) all Registered Copyrights and (D) all domain name or uniform resource locators registrations, in each case listing, as applicable, (x) the name of the applicant/registrant and current owner, (y) the jurisdiction where the application/registration is located and (z) the application or registration number. In each case in which Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries has acquired ownership of any Registered Trademarks, Registered Patents and Registered Copyrights, Stratex or one of its Subsidiaries has or had recorded each such acquisition with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the U.S. Copyright Office, or their respective equivalents in the applicable jurisdiction, in each case in accordance with applicable Law, except for any failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to result in a Stratex Material Adverse Effect. Stratex and/or each of its Subsidiaries owns, is licensed or otherwise possesses legally enforceable rights to use all Intellectual Property that is used in the business of Stratex and its Subsidiaries as currently conducted and proposed to be conducted, except for any failures to own, be licensed or possess such rights that, individually and in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to result in a Stratex Material Adverse Effect.
Section 7.1(o) of the Stratex Disclosure Letter
      (ii) Except as for any such matters that, individually and in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to result in a Stratex Material Adverse Effect:
      (A) Neither Stratex nor any of its Subsidiaries will be nor will Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries be as a result of the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the performance of its obligations hereunder, including the consummation of the Merger, in violation of any Contracts concerning Intellectual Property to which Stratex and/or any of its Subsidiaries are a party, including without limitation Contracts granting Stratex and/or any of its Subsidiaries rights to use such Intellectual Property, non-assertion agreements, settlement agreements, agreements granting rights to use Stratex IP Rights (as defined below), trademark coexistence agreements and trademark consent agreements (collectively, "") nor will the consummation of the Transactions trigger any modification, termination or acceleration thereunder, or create any license under or Encumbrance on Intellectual Property owned or held by Stratex;
Stratex IP Contracts
      (B) no suit, claim, action, investigation, proceeding or written demand with respect to or challenging the validity or enforceability of, or alleging any infringement or violation in any material respect, (I) the Intellectual Property owned by Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries (collectively, the ""), or (II) to the Knowledge of Stratex, any Intellectual Property of any Person other than Stratex, Harris or any of their Subsidiaries or Affiliates ("") licensed or otherwise made available to Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries, is currently pending or threatened in writing against Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries by any Person;
Stratex IP Rights
Third-Party IP Rights
      (C) there are no valid grounds for any valid claims (I) to the effect that the operation of the businesses of Stratex and its Subsidiaries as currently or as proposed to be conducted, or the current or proposed manufacture, sale, licensing or use of any product by Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries, infringes or otherwise violates any Third-Party IP Rights; (II) against the use by Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries of any Intellectual Property used in the businesses of Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries as currently or as proposed to be conducted; (III) challenging the ownership, validity or enforceability of any of the Stratex IP Rights; or (IV) challenging the license or legally enforceable right to use of any Third-Party IP Rights held by Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries;
      (D) to the Knowledge of Stratex, there is no unauthorized use, infringement or other violation of any of the Stratex IP Rights, or any Third-Party IP Rights licensed or otherwise made available exclusively to Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries, by any Person, including any employee or former employee of Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries;
      (E) to the Knowledge of Stratex, all Stratex IP Rights and Third-Party IP Rights licensed or otherwise made available exclusively to Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries are valid and enforceable;
 
      (F) all of Stratex's or its Subsidiaries' current and former employees have executed valid intellectual property assignment and confidentiality agreements for the benefit of Stratex in a form which Stratex has prior to the date of the Original Formation Agreement provided to Harris for its review, and all Intellectual Property developed under contract to Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries has been assigned to Stratex;
      (G) Stratex and its Subsidiaries have taken reasonable measures to protect the confidentiality of all Trade Secrets that are owned, used or held by Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries, and to the Knowledge of Stratex, such trade secrets have not been used, disclosed to or discovered by any Person except pursuant to valid and appropriate non disclosure and/or license agreements which have not been breached; and
      (H) Stratex's and its Subsidiaries' collection and dissemination of personal customer information in connection with their business has been conducted in accordance with applicable privacy policies published or otherwise adopted by Stratex and its Subsidiaries and any requirement under applicable Law, except where the failure to abide by any requirements under applicable Law will not cause a Stratex Material Adverse Effect.
      (p)  Neither Stratex nor any of its Subsidiaries is a party to or otherwise bound by any collective bargaining agreement, Contract or other agreement or understanding with a labor union or other labor organization, nor is Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries the subject of any material proceeding asserting that Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries has committed an unfair labor practice or seeking to compel any of them to bargain with any labor union or other labor organization nor has there been since January 1, 2001 or is there pending or, to the Knowledge of Stratex, threatened any labor strike, dispute, walk-out, work stoppage, slow-down or lockout involving Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries.
Labor Matters.
      (q) 
Contracts and Commitments.
      (i)  sets forth as of the date of the Original Formation Agreement a true, correct and complete list (excluding, in the case of any Contract with a customer, the name of such customer) of the following Contracts (including every written amendment, modification or supplement thereto that is binding on Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries) to which Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which any of their assets are bound:
Section 7.1(q)(i) of the Stratex Disclosure Letter
      (A) any Contract that is a "material contract" (as such term is defined in Item 601(b)(10) of Regulation  of the SEC);
S-K
      (B) any Contract (other than a Contract described in one of the other provisions of this without regard to any percentage or numerical limitation contained therein) that involved annual expenditures during Stratex's fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 by Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries in excess of $2,000,000 and that is not otherwise cancelable by Stratex or such Subsidiary without any financial or other penalty on 90 days' or less notice, excluding any purchase orders for goods and services from Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries with respect to which no obligations of any party remain outstanding;
Section 7.1(q)(i)
      (C) any Contract (other than a Contract described in one of the other provisions of this without regard to any percentage or numerical limitation contained therein) that involved annual revenue during Stratex's fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 to Stratex and its Subsidiaries in excess of $2,000,000, excluding any purchase orders for goods and services from Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries with respect to which no obligations of any party remain outstanding;
Section 7.1(q)(i)
      (D) any Contract that contains any (I) "most favored nation" or similar provision, (II) exclusivity provision or (III) other material restriction on the ability of Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries to compete or to provide any products or services generally or in any market segment or any geographic area;
      (E) any Contract or arrangement under which Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries has (I) incurred any Indebtedness that is currently outstanding or (II) given any guarantee in respect of Indebtedness, in each case having an aggregate principal amount in excess of $2,000,000;
 
      (F) any partnership joint venture or other similar agreement or arrangement relating to the formation, creation, operation, management or control of any partnership or joint venture material to Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries or in which Stratex or any such Subsidiaries owns more than a 15% voting or economic interest, or any interest valued at more than $2,000,000 without regard to percentage voting or economic interest;
      (G) any Contract to which Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries is a party containing a standstill or similar agreement pursuant to which the party has agreed not to acquire assets or securities of the other party or any of its Affiliates;
      (H) any Contract providing for indemnification by Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries of any Person, except for any such Contract that is (I) not material to Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries and (II) entered into in the ordinary course of business;
      (I) any Contract that contains a put, call or similar right pursuant to which Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries could be required to purchase or sell, as applicable, any equity interests of any Person or assets that have a fair market value or purchase price of more than $2,000,000;
      (J) any other Contract or group of related Contracts that, if terminated or subject to a default by any party thereto, would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Stratex Material Adverse Effect; and
      (K) any Stratex IP Contracts.
      (ii) For purposes of this Agreement, each Contract described in the foregoing clauses (A) through (K) of is, individually, a "" and such Contracts are collectively the "".
Section 7.1(q)(i)
Stratex Material Contract
Stratex Material Contracts
      (iii) Stratex has delivered or made available true, correct and complete copies of all such Stratex Material Contracts to Harris or its representative.
      (iv) The Stratex Material Contracts are, in all material respects, valid, binding and enforceable in accordance with their respective terms with respect to Stratex and its Subsidiaries and, to the Knowledge of Stratex, with respect to each other party to any of such Stratex Material Contracts, except as such validity, binding nature and enforceability may be limited by the Bankruptcy and Equity Exception, and there are no existing material defaults or breaches by Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries under any Stratex Material Contract (or events or conditions which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute such a material default or breach) and, to the Knowledge of Stratex, there are no material defaults or breaches (or events or conditions which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a material default or breach) by any other party to any Stratex Material Contract. Stratex has no Knowledge of any pending or threatened bankruptcy or similar proceeding with respect to any party to any Stratex Material Contract which, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in a Stratex Material Adverse Effect.
      (r)  Stratex and each of its Subsidiaries has good and, in the case of real property, valid and marketable title to, or, in the case of leased properties and assets, valid leasehold interests in, all of its real property, tangible property and other assets except where the failure to have such title has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Stratex Material Adverse Effect, in each case subject to no Encumbrances. Neither Stratex nor any of its Subsidiaries has received a notice of default under any material leases of tangible properties to which they are a party, except for (i) defaults that are not material, (ii) defaults for which the grace or cure period has not expired and which are reasonably capable of cure during the cure period or (iii) defaults which have been cured. All such material leases are in full force and effect, and Stratex and each of its Subsidiaries enjoy peaceful and undisturbed possession under all such material leases.
Title to Properties; Encumbrances.
      (s)  All material property, fire and casualty, general liability, managed care liability, employment practices liability, fiduciary liability, product liability, directors and officers liability and sprinkler and water damage insurance policies maintained by Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries are with
Insurance.
 
reputable insurance carriers, and are in character and amount at least equivalent to that carried by Persons engaged in similar businesses and subject to the same or similar perils or hazards, except for any failures to maintain insurance policies that, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to result in a Stratex Material Adverse Effect. The consummation of the Transactions will not, in and of itself, cause the revocation, cancellation or termination of any such material insurance policy.
      (t)  To the Knowledge of Stratex, neither Stratex nor any of its Subsidiaries nor, with respect to any action taken on behalf of Stratex or any such Subsidiary, any directors, officers, employees or agents of Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries has (i) used any funds for unlawful contributions, unlawful gifts, unlawful entertainment or other unlawful expenses related to political activity, (ii) made any unlawful payment to foreign or domestic government officials or employees or to foreign or domestic political parties or campaigns or violated any provision of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 or (iii) made any payment in the nature of criminal bribery.
Ethical Business Practices.
      (u)  Neither Stratex nor any of its officers, directors, employees or Subsidiaries has employed any broker or finder or incurred any liability for any brokerage fees, commissions or finders, fees in connection with the Transactions, except that Stratex has employed Bear Stearns as its financial advisor, the fees and expenses of which shall be paid by Stratex. A copy of the engagement letter between Bear Stearns and Stratex (including all amendments or supplements thereto) has been provided to Harris.
Brokers and Finders.
      (v)  Except for the representations and warranties contained in this , neither Stratex nor any other Person makes any other express or implied representation or warranty on behalf of Stratex.
No Other Representations or Warranties.
Section 7.1
      7.2.      Except as set forth in the disclosure letter (subject to ) dated as of the Original Formation Agreement Date and delivered to Stratex by Harris prior to entering into the Original Formation Agreement and identified as such (the ""), Harris hereby represents and warrants to Stratex on the Original Formation Agreement Date that:
Representations and Warranties of Harris.
Section 13.11(c)
Harris Disclosure Letter
      (a)  Harris is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of Delaware and has all requisite corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its Properties, and to carry on the MCD Business as presently conducted and is qualified to do business and is in good standing as a foreign corporation in each jurisdiction where the ownership, operation of the Contributed Assets (other than the Contributed Subsidiaries) or the conduct of the MCD Business requires such qualification (to the extent the "good standing" concept is applicable in the case of any jurisdiction outside the United States), except for any such failures to be so organized, qualified or in good standing or to have such power or authority that, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to result in a Harris Material Adverse Effect. Harris has made available to Stratex a complete and correct copy of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws (or other comparable governing instruments) of Harris, each as amended to the date of the Original Formation Agreement, and each certificate of incorporation or bylaws so delivered is in full force and effect. Harris is in compliance with the terms of its certificate of incorporation as amended through the date of the Original Formation Agreement (the "") and its bylaws as amended through the date of the Original Formation Agreement (collectively with the Harris Certificate, the "").
Organization, Good Standing and Qualification.
Harris Certificate
Harris Governing Instruments
      (b)  (i)  sets forth a complete and accurate list of each Contributed Subsidiary both as of the date of the Original Formation Agreement and immediately following the Harris Restructuring, together with its jurisdiction of organization and its authorized and outstanding capital stock of, or other equity interests in, each such Subsidiary as of the date of the Original Formation Agreement. Each Subsidiary of Harris which has title to any Property reasonably expected to be a Contributed Asset and each Contributed Subsidiary is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization (to the extent the "good standing" concept is applicable in the case of any jurisdiction outside the United States) and has all requisite corporate or similar power and authority to own, lease and operate its Properties and to carry on
Subsidiaries.
Section 7.2(b) of the Harris Disclosure Letter
 
its portion of the MCD Business as currently conducted and is duly qualified to do business and is in good standing as a foreign corporation or other entity in each jurisdiction where the ownership or operation of its assets or the conduct of its business requires such qualification (to the extent the "good standing" concept is applicable in the case of any jurisdiction outside the United States), except for any such failures to be so duly organized, validly existing, qualified or in good standing or to have such power or authority that, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be likely to have a Harris Material Adverse Effect. Harris has made available to Stratex complete and correct copies of the certificate of incorporation and the bylaws (or similar organizational documents) of each of the currently existing Contributed Subsidiaries, as amended through the date of the Original Formation Agreement (the "") and each Harris Governing Document is in full force and effect. Each Contributed Subsidiary is in compliance with the terms of its certificate of incorporation and bylaws (or comparable governing instruments) as amended through the date of the Original Formation Agreement. Harris owns, directly and indirectly, all right, title and interest in and to, all outstanding capital stock of, or other equity interests in, the Contributed Subsidiaries. All of the outstanding stock of, or other equity interests in, the Contributed Subsidiaries has been duly authorized, and is validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable.
Harris Governing Documents
      (ii) There are no preemptive or other outstanding rights, options, warrants, conversion rights, convertible or exchangeable securities, "phantom" stock rights, stock appreciation rights, redemption rights, repurchase rights, calls, stock based performance units, commitments, Contracts, agreements, arrangements or undertakings of any kind to which any Contributed Subsidiary is a party or by which any of them is bound (i) obligating any such Contributed Subsidiary to issue, deliver or sell, or cause to be issued, delivered or sold, shares of capital stock or other equity interests in, or any security convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, any capital stock of or other equity interest in, any Contributed Subsidiary or any Voting Debt, (ii) obligating any Contributed Subsidiary to issue, grant, extend or enter into any such option, warrant, call, right, security, commitment, Contract, arrangement or undertaking or (iii) that give any Person the right to receive any economic benefit or right similar to or derived from the economic benefits and rights occurring to holders of shares of capital stock of, or other equity interests in, or any security convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, any capital stock of, or other equity interest in, any Contributed Subsidiary, and no such obligations, instruments or securities are authorized, issued or outstanding. There are no voting trusts or other arrangements or understandings to which any Contributed Subsidiary is a party with respect to the voting, the dividend rights or disposition of any capital stock of, or other equity interest in, any Contributed Subsidiary.
      (iii) Harris and each of its Subsidiaries that owns, or following the Harris Restructuring, that will own, the outstanding capital stock of, or other equity interest in, the Contributed Subsidiaries, have, or will have following the Harris Restructuring, good and valid title to the outstanding capital stock of, or other equity interests in, the Contributed Subsidiaries, free and clear of all Encumbrances, and upon delivery by Harris and/or any of its Subsidiaries of the outstanding capital stock of, or other equity interests in, the Contributed Subsidiaries at the Closing, good and valid title to the outstanding capital stock of, or other equity interests in, the Contributed Subsidiaries, free and clear of all Encumbrances, other than those resulting from Newco's ownership, will pass to Newco.
      (iv) Following the Harris Restructuring, no Contributed Subsidiary will own, directly or indirectly, any capital stock of, or other equity interests in, any Person (other than another Contributed Subsidiary) or will have any direct or indirect equity or ownership interest in any business, or will be a member of or participant in any partnership, joint venture or similar Person. Following the Harris Restructuring, there will be no outstanding contractual obligations of the Contributed Subsidiaries to provide funds to, or to make any investment (in the form of a loan, capital contribution or otherwise) in, any other Person.
      (c)  (i) Harris has all requisite corporate power and authority and has taken all corporate action necessary in order to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement and to consummate each of the Transactions to which it is a party (collectively, the ""). This Agreement is, and each Ancillary Agreement, when executed and delivered by Harris and Newco and any other parties thereto, will be valid and legally
Corporate Authority; Approval.
Harris Transactions
 
binding obligations of Harris, enforceable against Harris in accordance with their terms, subject to the Bankruptcy and Equity Exception.
      (ii) At a meeting duly called and held prior to execution of this Agreement, the Board of Directors of Harris unanimously adopted resolutions approving and adopting this Agreement and the Harris Transactions. Other than the approvals or consents of the equity holders and boards of directors of direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiaries of Harris required to effect the Harris Restructuring, no additional corporate or stockholder authorization or consent is required (with respect to Harris or any of its Subsidiaries) in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by Harris of this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement.
      (d) 
Governmental Filings; No Violations; Consents; and Approvals.
      (i) Other than the filings or notices (A) pursuant to , and , (B) required under the HSR Act or (C) required to be made under the Exchange Act or with The New York Stock Exchange, no Governmental Authorizations are required to be obtained or made by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements or the consummation by Harris of the Harris Transactions.
Section 2.1
Section 2.3
Section 3.4
      (ii) The execution, delivery and performance by Harris of this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement, and the consummation by Harris of the Harris Transactions, do not and will not, constitute or result in (A) a breach or violation of, or a default under, any provision of the Harris Governing Instruments or Harris Governing Documents, (B) a breach or violation of, a termination (or right of termination) or a default under or the acceleration of any obligations (with or without notice, lapse of time or both) pursuant to, any Contract binding on Harris or its Subsidiaries or assuming that the necessary consents, approvals and filings referred to in clauses (A) through (C) of are duly obtained and/or made, any Laws, Governmental Authorizations or non-governmental permit or license to which Harris or any of its Subsidiaries is subject, (C) any change in the rights or obligations of any party under any such Contracts, Governmental Authorizations, permits or licenses or (D) the creation of any Encumbrance on any of the Contributed Assets or any assets of any Contributed Subsidiary, except, in the case of the foregoing clauses (B), (C) or (D) only, for any breach, violation, termination, default, acceleration, change or creation that, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to result in a Harris Material Adverse Effect. sets forth a correct and complete list of Harris Material Contracts pursuant to which consents or waivers are or may be required prior to consummation of the Transactions (whether or not subject to the exception set forth with respect to clauses (B), (C) and (D) above).
Section 7.2(d)(i)
Section 7.2(d) of the Harris Disclosure Letter
      (iii) Without limiting the generality of clause (ii) above, neither the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement by Harris nor the consummation by Harris of the Harris Transactions will require the receipt of any consent pursuant to, or give rise to any right of termination under, any of the Harris Material Contracts except for any such consents and any such termination rights which, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Harris Material Adverse Effect if not obtained (in the case of such consents) or if exercised (in the case of such termination rights).
      (iv)  sets forth a correct and complete list of all material claims Related to the MCD Business held by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries, as creditors or claimants, with respect to debtors or -possession subject to proceedings under the Bankruptcy Code, together with a correct and complete list of all orders entered by the applicable United States Bankruptcy Court with respect to each such proceeding. None of such orders, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in a Harris Material Adverse Effect.
Section 7.2(d) of the Harris Disclosure Letter
debtors-in
      (e)  (i) Harris has made available to Stratex each registration statement, report, form, proxy or information statement or other document filed or furnished by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries with or to the SEC since July 1, 2005 (the "") which contains or should contain disclosure or financial information with respect to the MCD Business, including Harris'
Harris Reports, Financial Statements.
Harris Audit Date
 
Annual Report on Form  for the year ended July 1, 2005, each in the form (including exhibits, annexes and any amendments thereto) filed with the SEC (collectively with each other, any such registration statements, reports, forms, proxy or information statements or other documents so filed or furnished subsequent to the date of the Original Formation Agreement and any amendments to any of the foregoing, the ""). Harris and its Subsidiaries have filed or furnished, as applicable, with or to the SEC all registration statements, reports, forms, proxy or information statements and other documents which contain or should contain disclosure with respect to the MCD Business required to be so filed or furnished by them pursuant to applicable securities statutes, regulations, policies and rules since the Harris Audit Date. Solely with respect to any disclosure with respect to the MCD Business contained or required to be contained therein, each of the Harris Reports, at the time first filed with or furnished to the SEC, complied or will comply (as applicable) in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act and Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder and complied in all material respects with the then applicable accounting standards. As of their respective dates, solely with respect to any disclosure with respect to the MCD Business contained or required to be contained therein, the Harris Reports did not, and any Harris Reports filed with the SEC subsequent to the date of the Original Formation Agreement will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading. The Harris Reports filed after the date of the Original Formation Agreement will include all certificates required to be included therein pursuant to Sections 302 and 906 of the SOX Act, and the internal control report and attestation of Harris' outside auditors required by Section 404 of the SOX Act.
10-K
Harris Reports
      (ii) Set forth in is a copy of the audited combined balance sheets and audited combined statements of operations, cash flows and comprehensive income (loss) and division equity for the Microwave Communications Division as of June 30, 2006 and July 1, 2005 and for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, July 1, 2005 and July 2, 2004 (collectively, the ""). The Audited Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied during the periods covered (except as described in the notes thereto), and fairly present, in all material respects, the combined financial condition and combined results of operations, division equity and cash flows of the Microwave Communications Division as of the dates thereof or the periods then ended.
Section 7.2(e) of the Harris Disclosure Letter
Audited Financial Statements
      (iii) Harris is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of the SOX Act to the extent that such compliance will affect Newco's ability to comply with the provisions of the SOX Act following the Closing.
      (iv) The management of Harris has (a) designed and implemented disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule  of the Exchange Act) which management reasonably believes will ensure that material information relating to the MCD Business is made known to the management of Harris by others within Harris and (b) has disclosed, based on its most recent evaluation, to Harris' outside auditors and the audit committee of the Board of Directors of Harris (A) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting (as defined in Rule  of the Exchange Act) which are reasonably likely to adversely affect Harris' ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data with respect to the MCD Business and (B) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management of the MCD Business or other employees who have a significant role in Harris' internal controls over financial reporting to the extent such controls relate to the MCD Business. Harris has made available to Stratex a summary of any such disclosure made by management since July 2, 2004. Since the Harris Audit Date, any material change in internal controls over financial reporting to the extent they relate to the MCD Business required to be disclosed in any Harris Report has been so disclosed.
13a-15(e)
13a-15(f)
      (v) Since the date of their last certification filed with the SEC, neither the chief executive officer nor the chief financial officer of Harris has become aware of any fact, circumstance or change that is or is reasonably likely to result in a "significant deficiency" or a "material weakness" in Harris' internal controls over financial reporting to the extent they relate to the MCD Business.
 
      (vi) Since June 30, 2006, (A) neither Harris nor any of its Subsidiaries nor, to the Knowledge of Harris, any director, officer, employee, auditor, accountant or representative of Harris or any of its Subsidiaries has received or otherwise had or obtained Knowledge of any material complaint, allegation, assertion or claim, whether written or oral, regarding the accounting or auditing practices, procedures, methodologies or methods relating to the MCD Business or the internal accounting controls as such controls relevant to the MCD Business, including any material complaint, allegation, assertion or claim that Harris or any of its Subsidiaries has engaged in questionable accounting or auditing practices relating to the MCD Business and (B) no attorney representing Harris or any of its Subsidiaries, whether or not employed by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries, has reported evidence of a material violation of the securities Laws, breach of fiduciary duty or similar violation by Harris or any of its officers, directors, employees or agents relating to the MCD Business to the Board of Directors of Harris or any committee thereof or, to the Knowledge of Harris, to any director or officer of Harris.
      (f)  None of the information supplied or to be supplied by Harris for inclusion or incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement, pursuant to which the shares of Class A Common Stock issuable in connection with the Merger will be registered with the SEC pursuant to the Securities Act, or the Proxy Statement/ Prospectus included in the Registration Statement which is to be sent to the stockholders of Stratex in connection with the Stratex Stockholder Meeting shall (i) in the case of the Registration Statement, at the time it is filed with the SEC or at the time it is declared effective by the SEC, or becomes effective, or (ii) in the case of the Proxy Statement, at the time it is mailed to the stockholders of Stratex or at the time of the Stratex Stockholder Meeting contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading (in the case of the Proxy Statement/ Prospectus only, in light of the circumstances under which they are made).
Information Supplied.
      (g)  Since June 30, 2006, Harris and its Subsidiaries have conducted the MCD Business only in, and have not engaged in any material transaction other than in accordance with, the ordinary course of business. Since June 30, 2006 and on or prior to the date of the Original Formation Agreement, there has not been any event, occurrence, discovery or development that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have, a Harris Material Adverse Effect. On or after June 30, 2006 and on or prior to the date of the Original Formation Agreement, none of the actions or events described in clauses (a) through (q) of has been taken or has occurred; , that Harris has approved and intends to complete the Harris Restructuring prior to the Closing.
Absence of Certain Changes.
Section 8.2
provided, however
      (h)  (i) There are no civil, criminal or administrative actions, suits, demands, claims, hearings, litigations, arbitrations, investigations or other proceedings pending, or to the Knowledge of Harris, threatened against Harris or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates relating to the MCD Business, the Contribution Transaction or the other Transactions by, before or with any Government Entity or any other Person. None of Harris or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates is a party to, or subject to the provisions of, any judgment, order, writ, injunction, decree or award of any Government Entity relating to the Contributed Assets, the MCD Business or the Transactions.
Litigation and Liabilities.
      (ii) There are no liabilities or obligations of Harris or any Subsidiary of Harris relating to the Contributed Assets, the MCD Business or the Transactions, whether or not accrued, contingent or otherwise and whether or not required to be disclosed, or any other facts or circumstances that would reasonably be expected to result in any obligations or liabilities of, Harris or any of its Subsidiaries relating to the Contributed Assets, the MCD Business or the Transactions, other than those:
 
      (i) 
Employee Benefits.
      (i) All benefit and compensation plans, contracts, policies or arrangements covering the MCD Employees, including any "employee benefit plans" within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA, any deferred compensation, stock option, stock purchase, stock appreciation rights, stock based, incentive, bonus, workers' compensation, short term disability, vacation and severance plans and all employment, severance and change in control agreements, and all amendments thereto (the ""), are listed in , and each MCD Employee Benefit Plan which is intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code, including any master or prototype plan, has been separately identified. True and complete copies of all MCD Employee Benefit Plans listed in , including any trust instruments and insurance contracts and all amendments thereto, have been provided or made available to Stratex.
MCD Employee Benefit Plans
Section 7.2(i)(i) of the Harris Disclosure Letter
Section 7.2(i)(i) of the Harris Disclosure Letter
      (ii) No MCD Employee Benefit Plan is a Multi-Employer Plan. All MCD Employee Benefit Plans covering MCD Employees are in substantial compliance with ERISA, the Code and other applicable Laws, except to the extent failure to comply would not cause any Liability to Newco. Each MCD Employee Benefit Plan which is subject to ERISA (the "") that is an "employee pension benefit plan" within the meaning of Section 3(2) of ERISA (a "") and that is intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code, has received a favorable determination letter from the IRS for all Tax Law changes prior to the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 or has applied to the IRS for such favorable determination letter within the applicable remedial amendment period under Section 401(b) of the Code, and Harris is not aware of any circumstances likely to result in the loss of the qualification of such Plan under Section 401(a) of the Code. Any voluntary employees' beneficiary association within the meaning of Section 501(c)(9) of the Code which provides benefits under a MCD Employee Benefit Plan has (A) received an opinion letter from the IRS recognizing its exempt status under Section 501(c)(9) of the Code and (B) filed a timely notice with the IRS pursuant to Section 505(c) of the Code, and Harris is not aware of circumstances likely to result in the loss of its exempt status under Section 501(c)(9) of the Code. Neither Harris nor any of its Subsidiaries has engaged in a transaction with respect to any MCD Employee ERISA Plan that, assuming the Taxable period of such transaction expired as of the date of the Original Formation Agreement, would subject Newco to a Tax or penalty imposed by either Section 4975 of the Code or Section 502(i) of ERISA in an amount that would be material.
MCD Employee ERISA Plans
MCD Employee Pension Plan
      (iii) No Liability under Subtitle C or D of Title IV of ERISA has been or is expected to be incurred by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries with respect to any terminated "single-employer plan", within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, formerly maintained by any of them, or the terminated single-employer plan of any entity which is considered one employer with Harris under Section 4001 of ERISA or Section 414 of the Code (a "").
Harris ERISA Affiliate
      (iv) All contributions required to be made with respect to any MCD Employees under each MCD Employee Benefit Plan, as of the date of the Original Formation Agreement, have been timely made and all obligations in respect of each MCD Employee Benefit Plan have been properly accrued and reflected in the Audited Financial Statements. Neither Harris nor any of its Subsidiaries nor any Harris ERISA Affiliate maintains as of the date of the Original Formation Agreement a single-employer plan within the meaning of 4001(a)(15) of ERISA or any plan subject to the requirements of Section 412 of the Code.
      (v) Neither Harris nor any of its Subsidiaries has any obligations for retiree health and life benefits under any MCD Employee Benefit Plan.
 
      (vi) There has been no amendment to, or announcement by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries in respect of the MCD Employees relating to, or change in employee participation or coverage under, any MCD Employee Benefit Plan which would increase materially the expense of maintaining such MCD Employee Benefit Plan above the level of the expense incurred therefor for the most recent fiscal year. Neither the execution of this Agreement nor the consummation of the Transactions will (A) entitle any MCD Employees to severance pay or benefits or any increase in severance pay or benefits upon any termination of employment after the date of the Original Formation Agreement or (B) accelerate the time of payment or vesting or result in any payment or funding (through a grantor trust or otherwise) of compensation or benefits under, increase the amount payable or result in any other material obligation pursuant to, any of the MCD Employee Benefit Plans to any MCD Employees. None of Harris or any of its Subsidiaries has entered into any contract, agreement or arrangement with any MCD Employee in connection with or in contemplation of any of the Transactions.
      (vii)  sets forth a true, correct and complete list of all MCD Employees on September 1, 2006, identifying as to each a job title, years of service and location of employment.
Section 7.2(i)(vii) of the Harris Disclosure Letter
      (viii) There are no outstanding loans to any MCD Employee from any Contributed Subsidiary other than claims any MCD Employee may have under an MCD Employee Benefit Plan covering such MCD Employee. As of the date of the Original Formation Agreement, there is no pending, or to the Knowledge of Harris, threatened investigations or other proceedings by or with any Government Entity or litigation relating to the MCD Employee Benefit Plans.
      (j)  The MCD Business has not been, and is not being, conducted in material violation of any applicable Laws. To the Knowledge of Harris, no material change is required in the processes, properties or procedures Related to the MCD Business for them to continue to comply with such Laws, and Harris has not received any notice or communication of any material noncompliance with any such Laws that has not been cured as of the date of the Original Formation Agreement. The MCD Business and the Contributed Assets have obtained, and are in substantial compliance with, all material Governmental Authorizations required or necessary for the conduct of the MCD Business as presently conducted, and neither Harris nor any of its Subsidiaries has received written notice from any Government Entity of any material noncompliance with any such Governmental Authorizations that has not been cured as of the date of the Original Formation Agreement.
Compliance with Laws and Regulations; Governmental Authorizations.
      (k)  Except for matters that relate to an Excluded Liability and other than as would not reasonably be expected to result in a Harris Material Adverse Effect:
Environmental Matters.
 
      (l)  The Contributed Subsidiaries (i) have prepared in good faith and duly and timely filed (taking into account any extension of time within which to file) all Tax Returns required to be filed by any of them and all such filed Tax Returns are complete and accurate in all material respects; (ii) have paid all Taxes that are shown as due on such filed Tax Returns or that the Contributed Subsidiaries are obligated to collect or withhold from amounts owing to or payable from any employee, creditor or third party, except with respect to matters contested in good faith; and (iii) have not waived any statute of limitations with respect to Taxes or agreed to any extension of time with respect to a Tax assessment or deficiency. As of the date of the Original Formation Agreement, there are not pending or, to the Knowledge of Harris, threatened in writing, any audits, examinations, investigations or other proceedings in respect of Taxes or Tax matters. There are not, to the Knowledge of Harris, any unresolved questions or claims concerning the Contributed Subsidiaries' Tax liability that are reasonably likely to have a Harris Material Adverse Effect and are not disclosed or provided for in the Harris Disclosure Letter. Harris has made available to Stratex true and correct copies of the United States federal income Tax Returns (including all schedules and attachments thereto) filed by or on behalf of the Contributed Subsidiaries for each of its fiscal years ended July 1, 2005, July 2, 2004 and June 27, 2003. None of the Contributed Subsidiaries has any liability with respect to income, franchise or other Taxes that accrued on or before July 1, 2005 in excess of the amounts accrued with respect thereto that are reflected in the financial statements included in the Harris Reports filed on or prior to the date of the Original Formation Agreement. None of the Contributed Subsidiaries has been a party to the distribution of stock of a controlled corporation as defined in Section 355(a) of the Code in a transaction intended to qualify under Section 355 of the Code within the past two years. For any transaction in which any of the Contributed Subsidiaries entered into an agreement to treat a stock purchase as an asset purchase for United States federal income tax purposes, a valid election under Section 338 of the Code was timely filed with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. None of the Contributed Subsidiaries have engaged in any transactions that are the same as, or substantially similar to, any transaction which is a "reportable transaction" for purposes of Treasury Regulation  1.6011-4(b) (including without limitation any transaction which the Internal Revenue Service has determined to be a "listed transaction" for purposes of Treasury Regulation  1.6011-4(b)(2)).
Taxes.
      (m) 
Intellectual Property.
      (i) Section 7.2(m) of the Harris Disclosure Letter sets forth as of the date of the Original Formation Agreement a true, correct and complete list of, with respect to the Contributed Intellectual Property, (A) all Registered Trademarks and material unregistered Trademarks; (B) all Registered Patents, (C) all Registered Copyrights and (D) all domain name or uniform resource locators registrations, in each case listing, as applicable, (x) the name of the applicant/registrant and current owner, (y) the jurisdiction where the application/registration is located and (z) the application or registration number. In each case in which Harris or any of its Subsidiaries has acquired ownership of any Registered Trademarks, Registered Patents and Registered Copyrights of the Contributed Intellectual Property, Harris or one of its
 
Subsidiaries has or had recorded each such acquisition with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the U.S. Copyright Office, or their respective equivalents in the applicable jurisdiction, in each case in accordance with applicable Law, except for any failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to result in a Harris Material Adverse Effect. Harris and/or each of its Subsidiaries owns, is licensed or otherwise possesses legally enforceable rights to use the Contributed Intellectual Property and the Harris Licensed Intellectual Property as such Intellectual Property is used in the MCD Business as currently conducted and proposed to be conducted, except for any failures to own, be licensed or possess such rights that, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to result in a Harris Material Adverse Effect.
      (ii) Except as for any such matters that, individually and in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to result in a Harris Material Adverse Effect:
 
      (n)  Neither Harris nor any of its Subsidiaries is a party to or otherwise bound by any collective bargaining agreement, Contract or other agreement or understanding with a labor union or other labor organization respecting the MCD Employees, nor is Harris or any of its Subsidiaries the subject of any material proceeding applicable to the MCD Business, the MCD Employees or former employees of the MCD Business asserting that Harris or any of its Subsidiaries has committed an unfair labor practice or seeking to compel any of them to bargain with any labor union or other labor organization nor has there been since January 1, 2001 or is there pending or, to the Knowledge of Harris, threatened any labor strike, dispute, walk-out, work stoppage, slow-down or lockout involving the MCD Employees or former employees of the MCD Business.
Labor Matters.
      (o)  (i)  sets forth as of the date of the Original Formation Agreement a true, correct and complete list (excluding, in the case of any Contract with a customer, the name of such customer) of the following Contracts (including every written amendment, modification or supplement thereto that is binding on Harris or any of its Subsidiaries) to which Harris or any of its Subsidiaries is a party Related to the MCD Business or by which any of the Contributed Assets are bound:
Contracts and Commitments.
Section 7.2(o)(i) of the Harris Disclosure Letter
 
      (ii) For purposes of this Agreement, each Contract described in the foregoing clauses (A) through (K) of is, individually, a "" and such Contracts are collectively the "".
Section 7.2(o)(i)
Harris Material Contract
Harris Material Contracts
      (iii) Harris has delivered or made available true, correct and complete copies of all such Harris Material Contracts, to Stratex or its representative.
      (iv) The Harris Material Contracts are, in all material respects, valid, binding and enforceable in accordance with their respective terms with respect to Harris and its Subsidiaries and, to the Knowledge of Harris, with respect to each other party to any of such Harris Material Contracts, except as such validity, binding nature and enforceability may be limited by the Bankruptcy and Equity Exception, and there are no existing material defaults or breaches by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries under any Harris Material Contract (or events or conditions which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute such a material default or breach) and, to the Knowledge of Harris, there are no material defaults or breaches (or events or conditions which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a material default or breach) by any other party to any Harris Material Contract. Harris has no Knowledge of any pending or threatened bankruptcy or similar proceeding with respect to any party to any Harris Material Contract which, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in a Harris Material Adverse Effect.
      (p)  The Contributed Assets when taken together with the Harris Services, the Harris Licensed Intellectual Property, Contributed Leased Real Property, the Leased Equipment and the Newco Governmental Authorizations identified in constitute all the Properties of Harris and its Subsidiaries necessary for Newco to operate and conduct the MCD Business in all material respects as currently conducted by Harris and its Subsidiaries.
Sufficiency of Assets.
Section 7.2(p) of the Harris Disclosure Letter
      (q)  sets forth an accurate and complete list of all of the real property owned by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries that are Related to the MCD Business and sets forth an accurate and complete list of all of the real property leased by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries that are
Title to Properties; Encumbrances.
Section 7.2(q)(i) of the Harris Disclosure Letter
Section 7.2(q)(ii) of the Harris Disclosure Letter
 
Related to the MCD Business. Except as set forth in and , there are no leases, subleases, licenses, concessions or other agreements granting to any Persons other than Harris and its Subsidiaries any right to the possession, use, occupancy, or enjoyment of any real property owned, leased or otherwise utilized by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries Related to the MCD Business. Harris and each of its Subsidiaries has good and, in the case of real property, valid and marketable title to, or, in the case of leased properties and assets, valid leasehold interests in, all of its real property, tangible property and other assets included in the Contributed Assets except where the failure to have such title has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Harris Material Adverse Effect, in each case subject to no Encumbrances. Neither Harris nor any of its Subsidiaries has received a notice of default under any material leases of tangible properties Relating to the MCD Business, except for (i) defaults that are not material, (ii) defaults for which the grace or cure period has not expired and which are reasonably capable of cure during the cure period or (iii) defaults which have been cured. All such material leases are in full force and effect, and Harris and each of its Subsidiaries enjoy peaceful and undisturbed possession under all such material leases.
Section 7.2(q)(i)
Section 7.2(q)(ii) of the Harris Disclosure Letter
      (r)  All material property, fire and casualty, general liability, managed care liability, employment practices liability, fiduciary liability, product liability, directors and officers liability and sprinkler and water damage insurance policies covering the properties, assets, employees and operations of the MCD Business maintained by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries are with reputable insurance carriers and are in character and amount at least equivalent to that carried by Persons engaged in businesses similar in nature and size to the MCD Business and subject to the same or similar perils or hazards, except for any failures to maintain insurance policies that, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to result in a Harris Material Adverse Effect. All of such policies or renewals thereof are, and at all times up to the Closing will be, in full force and effect.
Insurance.
      (s)  To the Knowledge of Harris, neither Harris nor any of its Subsidiaries nor, with respect to any action taken on behalf of Harris or any such Subsidiary, any directors, officers, employees or agents of Harris or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the MCD Business has (i) used any funds for unlawful contributions, unlawful gifts, unlawful entertainment or other unlawful expenses related to political activity, (ii) made any unlawful payment to foreign or domestic government officials or employees or to foreign or domestic political parties or campaigns or violated any provision of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 or (iii) made any payment in the nature of criminal bribery.
Ethical Business Practices.
      (t)  Neither Harris nor any of its officers, directors, employees or Subsidiaries has employed any broker or finder or incurred any liability for any brokerage fees, commissions or finders, fees in connection with the Transactions, except that Harris has employed Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated ("") as its financial advisor, the fees and expenses of which shall be paid by Harris. There are no fees or expenses payable to Morgan Stanley or any other professional fees or expenses incurred by Harris in connection with the Transactions (including the fees of Harris' legal counsel) for which Newco or Stratex could have any liability.
Brokers and Finders.
Morgan Stanley
      (u)  Except for the representations and warranties contained in this , neither Harris nor any other Person makes any other express or implied representation or warranty on behalf of Harris.
No Other Representations or Warranties.
Section 7.2
      8.1.      Stratex covenants and agrees as to itself and its Subsidiaries that, from the date of the Original Formation Agreement until the Effective Time, unless Harris shall otherwise approve in writing (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), and except as otherwise expressly required or permitted by this Agreement or as required by applicable Laws, the business of
Covenants of Stratex.
 
Stratex and its Subsidiaries shall be conducted only in the ordinary and usual course and, to the extent consistent therewith, Stratex and its Subsidiaries shall use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to preserve their business organizations intact and maintain their existing relations and goodwill with Government Entities, customers, manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, creditors, lessors, employees and business associates and keep available the services of the present employees and agents of Stratex and its Subsidiaries. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing and in furtherance thereof, from the date of the Original Formation Agreement until the Effective Time, except (i) as otherwise expressly required or permitted by this Agreement, (ii) as Harris may approve in writing, (iii) as set forth in or (iv) as required by applicable Law, Stratex shall not and shall not permit its Subsidiaries to:
Section 8.1 of the Stratex Disclosure Letter
 
 
      8.2.      Harris covenants and agrees as to itself and its Subsidiaries that, from the date of the Original Formation Agreement until the Effective Time, unless Stratex shall otherwise approve in writing (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), and except as otherwise expressly required or permitted by this Agreement or as required by applicable Laws, the MCD Business shall be conducted only in the ordinary and usual course and, to the extent consistent therewith, Harris and its Subsidiaries shall use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to preserve the MCD Business intact and to maintain the existing relations and goodwill of the MCD Business with Government Entities, customers, manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, creditors, lessors, employees and business associates and keep available the services of the present employees and agents of Harris and its Subsidiaries that are engaged primarily in the MCD Business. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing and in furtherance thereof, from the date of this Agreement until the Effective Time, except (i) as otherwise expressly required or permitted by this Agreement, (ii) as Stratex may approve in writing, (iii) as set forth in , (iv) as required by applicable Law or (v) in connection with the Harris Restructuring, Harris shall not and shall not permit its Subsidiaries to, with respect to the MCD Business:
Covenants of Harris.
Section 8.2 of the Harris Disclosure Letter
 
 
      9.1.      (a) Stratex agrees that neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries nor any of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents and representatives (any such Persons, including any investment banker, attorney or accountant, a "") shall, directly or indirectly, initiate, solicit, encourage or facilitate any inquiries or the making or implementation of any proposal or offer with respect to (i) a merger, consolidation, share exchange, reorganization or other business combination transaction involving Stratex, (ii) any acquisition of any equity or other ownership interests in Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries representing, in the aggregate, 15% or more of the total voting power or economic interest of all of the outstanding equity or other ownership interest in Stratex or an economic interest of equivalent value in any Subsidiary of Stratex or (iii) any acquisition of assets of Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries representing 15% or more of the total assets of Stratex and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (any such inquiry, proposal or offer being hereinafter referred to as an ""). Stratex further agrees that neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries nor any of their respective Representatives shall, directly or indirectly, provide any confidential or non public information or data to, or engage or participate in any discussions or negotiations with, any Person relating to an Acquisition Proposal, or otherwise encourage or facilitate any effort or attempt by any Person, in each case, other than Harris, Newco or Merger Sub, to make or implement an Acquisition Proposal; , that nothing contained in this Agreement
Acquisition Proposals.
Representative
Acquisition Proposal
provided, however
 
shall prevent Stratex or the Stratex Board from (i) complying with its disclosure obligations under Sections  and of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder with regard to an Acquisition Proposal or making any disclosures to holders of Stratex Common Stock that the Stratex Board determines in good faith (after consultation with outside counsel) that the Stratex Board is required to make in order to comply with its fiduciary duties to the holders of Stratex Common Stock under the DGCL (but if any disclosure made to effect such compliance has the substantive effect of withdrawing, or modifying or qualifying in any manner adverse to Harris, the Board Recommendation or Board Approval or recommending or approving another Acquisition Proposal (each, a ""), Harris shall have the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to ) or (ii) at any time prior to, but not after, the Stratex Requisite Vote is obtained: (A) providing confidential or non public information in response to a request therefor by a Person who has made an unsolicited bona fide written Acquisition Proposal (assuming, for this purpose only, that all references to "15% or more" in the definition of such term were changed to "a majority") which did not result from a breach of this (a ""); (B) engaging or participating in any discussions or negotiations with any Person who has made a Qualifying Acquisition Proposal; or (C) approving or recommending to the holders of shares of Stratex Common Stock a Qualifying Acquisition Proposal (or agreeing to take any such action), if and only to the extent that, (1) in the case of any action described in clause (A), (B) or (C) above, after consulting with outside legal counsel the Stratex Board determines in good faith that failing to take such action would constitute a breach by the directors of Stratex of their fiduciary duties under applicable Law; (2) prior to taking any action described in clause (A) or (B) above, Stratex and the other Person referred to in such clauses execute and deliver a written confidentiality agreement on terms substantially similar to those contained in the Confidentiality Agreement; (3) in the case of any action described in clause (B) or (C) above, the Stratex Board determines in good faith and after consulting with its financial advisors and outside counsel that the Qualifying Acquisition Proposal referred to in such clauses is (x) more favorable from a financial point of view to Stratex's stockholders than the Transactions after taking into account any Revised Terms offered by Harris before such action is taken and all other relevant factors (including but not limited to the probability that such Qualifying Acquisition Proposal will be consummated and the time required to effect such consummation) and (y) reasonably likely to be consummated taking into account all legal, financial, regulatory (including, without limitation, any antitrust or competition approvals or non objections) and other relevant factors (any such Qualifying Acquisition Proposal, a "") or, in the case of clause (B) only, is reasonably likely to lead to a Superior Proposal; (4) before taking any of the actions described in clause (B) or (C) above, Stratex shall have provided written notice to Harris of Stratex's or the Stratex Board's intention to take such action, at least five (5) Business Days (in the case of the first Qualifying Acquisition Proposal made by such Person) or one (1) Business Day (in the case of any subsequent Qualifying Acquisition Proposal made by such Person) shall have elapsed since the date on which Harris received such notice and Stratex shall have complied with the provisions of . Any determination required or permitted to be made by the Stratex Board after the date of the Original Formation Agreement under this Agreement shall be sufficient if approved by a majority of the total number of members thereof at a meeting duly called and held and at which a quorum was present and acting throughout.
14d-9
14e-2
Change In Recommendation
Section 11.1(c)(i)
Section 9.1
Qualifying Acquisition Proposal
Superior Proposal
Section 9.1(c)
      (b) Stratex agrees that it will immediately cease and cause to be terminated any existing activities, discussions or negotiations with any Person conducted prior to the Original Formation Agreement Date with respect to any Acquisition Proposal. Stratex will promptly request each Person that has heretofore executed a confidentiality agreement in connection with its consideration of a transaction with Stratex to return or destroy all confidential information furnished prior to the execution of this Agreement to or for the benefit of such Person by or on behalf of Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries and to destroy all summaries, analyses or extracts of or based upon such information in the possession of such Person or any of its Representatives. Stratex agrees that it will take the necessary steps to promptly inform its Representatives of the obligations undertaken in this None of Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries will waive any provision of any confidentiality or standstill agreement to which it is a party without the prior written consent of Harris.
Section 9.1.
 
      (c) Stratex agrees that it will notify Harris as promptly as practicable (and, in any event, within 24 hours) if any inquiries, proposals or offers with respect to any Acquisition Proposal or potential Acquisition Proposal are received by, any information relating thereto is requested from, or any discussions or negotiations relating thereto are sought to be initiated or continued with, it or any of its Representatives, indicating, in connection with such notice, the name of such Person and the material terms and conditions of any proposal or offer and thereafter shall keep Harris informed, on a current basis, as to the status and terms of any such proposal or offer and the status of any such discussions or negotiations. Stratex also agrees to provide any information to Harris that it is providing to another Person pursuant to this at the same time it provides it to such other Person. Stratex agrees that during the five- and one-Business Day periods described in subclause (4) of clause (ii) of the proviso in and in , Stratex shall negotiate in good faith with Harris with respect to any revisions to the terms of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement proposed by Harris. Any such revisions which Harris offers in writing to make which, if accepted by Stratex, would be legally binding on the parties to this Agreement are referred to herein as "". Stratex agrees that any material amendment to any Qualifying Acquisition Proposal will be deemed to be a new Qualifying Acquisition Proposal for purposes of this and
Section 9.1
Section 9.1(a)
Section 9.2
Revised Terms
Section 9.1
Section 9.2.
      9.2.      The Stratex Board shall not make a Change In Recommendation at any time prior to such time that the Stratex Requisite Vote is obtained unless: (i) Stratex shall have provided written notice to Harris that the Stratex Board intends to take such action, at least five (5) Business Days shall have elapsed since the date on which Harris received such notice and Stratex shall have complied with the applicable provisions of , (ii) the Stratex Board shall have determined in good faith, after consulting with its outside legal counsel and financial advisors and taking into account any Revised Terms, that failing to take such action would be a breach by the directors of Stratex of their fiduciary duties under applicable Law and (iii) if the Change In Recommendation is being made primarily as a result of an Acquisition Proposal, such Acquisition Proposal is a Superior Proposal (it being agreed and understood by the parties that any Change in Recommendation shall not alter the Stratex Board's approval of the Transactions (including for purposes of Section 203 of the DGCL)). Unless and until the Board Recommendation has been withdrawn as permitted by this Agreement, the Board Approval and Board Recommendation shall be included in the Proxy Statement/ Prospectus and the Stratex Board shall take all reasonable and lawful action to solicit the adoption of this Agreement by the holders of shares of Stratex Common Stock by the Stratex Requisite Vote at the Stratex Stockholders Meeting.
Board Recommendation.
Section 9.1(c)
      9.3.      (a) As promptly as practicable after the date of the Original Formation Agreement, Harris and Stratex shall prepare, and Newco shall file with the SEC, the Registration Statement. Harris and Stratex shall use their reasonable best efforts to have (i) the Registration Statement declared effective under the Securities Act as promptly as practicable after such filing and (ii) the Prospectus/ Proxy Statement to be mailed to the holders of Stratex Common Stock as promptly as practicable after such effectiveness.
SEC Filings; Information Supplied; Stratex Stockholders Meeting.
      (b) Each of Harris and Stratex agrees, as to itself and its Subsidiaries, that none of the information supplied or to be supplied by it or any of its Subsidiaries for inclusion or incorporation by reference in (i) the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement thereto will, at the time the Registration Statement or any such amendment becomes effective under the Securities Act, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or (ii) the Prospectus/ Proxy Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto will, at the date of mailing to the stockholders of Stratex and at the time of the Stratex Stockholders Meeting, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Harris and Stratex will cause the Registration Statement to comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable provisions of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations thereunder.
 
      (c) Each party shall provide to the other party and its counsel (i) any comments or other communications, whether written or oral, that such party or its counsel may receive from time to time from the SEC or its staff with respect to the Registration Statement or Prospectus/ Proxy Statement, promptly after receipt of those comments or other communications and (ii) a reasonable opportunity to participate in the response to those comments and to provide comments on that response (to which reasonable and good faith consideration shall be given), including by participating in any discussions or meetings with the SEC.
      (d) No amendment or supplement to any of the Registration Statement or the Proxy Statement/ Prospectus will be made by any party without the approval of the other parties, which will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, except as may be required by applicable Law.
      (e) Each party shall advise the other parties and their respective counsel, promptly after it receives notice thereof, of the time when the Registration Statement has become effective or any supplement or amendment has been filed, the issuance of any stop order, the suspension of the qualification of the shares of Common Stock in connection with the Merger for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or any request by the SEC for any amendment to the Registration Statement or Prospectus/ Proxy Statement of or comments thereon and responses thereto or requests by the SEC for additional information. If, at any time before the Stratex Requisite Vote has been obtained, Harris or Stratex discovers any information relating to either party or Newco, or any of their respective Subsidiaries, officers or directors, that should be set forth in an amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement or Prospectus/ Proxy Statement, so that such document would not include any misstatement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, the party that discovers such information shall promptly notify the other parties and the parties will cooperate with each other in order to promptly file with the SEC and, to the extent required by applicable Law, disseminate to the stockholders of Stratex, an appropriate amendment or supplement describing such information. Harris, Stratex, Newco and Merger Sub shall use their reasonable best efforts to take any action required to be taken under any applicable state securities laws in connection with the Contribution Transaction and the Merger and each party shall furnish all information concerning it and the holders of its capital stock as may be reasonably requested in connection with any such action.
      (f) Stratex will take, in accordance with applicable Law and the Stratex Governing Instruments, all action necessary to call, give notice of, convene and hold a meeting of its stockholders (the "") as promptly as practicable after the S-4 Registration Statement is declared effective, and in any event will use its reasonable best efforts to convene the Stockholders Meeting not later than 120 days after the date of the Original Formation Agreement (or, if later, not more than 60 days after effectiveness of the Registration Statement), to consider and vote upon the adoption of this Agreement. Stratex shall submit this Agreement to the holders of Stratex Common Stock for adoption by them at the Stockholders Meeting (and shall use its reasonable best efforts to do so within the time periods prescribed herein) whether or not the Board of Directors makes a Change In Recommendation after the date of the Original Formation Agreement.
Stratex Stockholders Meeting
      9.4.      (a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, each party shall cooperate with the other party and use (and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries to use) their respective reasonable best efforts to take or cause to be taken all actions, and do or cause to be done all things, reasonably necessary, proper or advisable on its part under this Agreement and applicable Laws to consummate the Transactions as soon as practicable, including (i) preparing and filing as promptly as practicable all documentation to effect all necessary notices, reports and other filings (including the notification and required form under the HSR Act and any other notifications or filings required by any other applicable foreign antitrust or competition laws required to be filed to consummate the Transactions), (ii) to obtain as promptly as practicable all consents, waivers, registrations, approvals, permits and authorizations necessary or advisable to be obtained from any third party or any Government Entity in order to consummate the Transactions and (iii) to cause the other conditions set forth in over which it has influence or control to be satisfied; and , that nothing in
Filings; Other Actions; Notification.
ARTICLE X
provided, however
 
this shall require, or be construed to require, Newco, Harris, Stratex or any of their Subsidiaries to take or to refrain from taking any action, or to agree to any restriction, limitation, hold separate, divestiture or other sanction, remedy or compromise, with respect to any asset or operation of any of them.
Section 9.4(a)
      (b) Subject to applicable Laws relating to the exchange of information, (i) each party shall keep the other apprised of the status of matters relating to completion of the Transactions, including promptly furnishing the other with copies of notices or other communications received by such party or any of its Subsidiaries from any third party or any Government Entity with respect to any of the Transactions, (ii) each party shall have the right to review in advance, and to the extent practicable will consult the other parties on, all of the information relating to such party or any of its Subsidiaries that appears in any filing made with, or written materials submitted to, any third party or any Government Entity in connection with any of the Transactions, (iii) each party shall provide the other parties with copies of all correspondence between it (or its advisors) and any Government Entity relating to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (iv) to the extent reasonably practicable, all telephone calls and meetings with a Government Entity regarding any of the Transactions shall include representatives of Harris and Stratex and (v) Stratex and Harris shall (A) promptly give the other written notice of any litigation commenced after the date of the Original Formation Agreement against Harris, Stratex or any of their respective directors or Subsidiaries relating to any of the Transactions, (B) keep the other reasonably informed regarding any such litigation and (C) give the other the opportunity to participate fully in the conduct of the defense or the settlement of any such litigation and neither Harris nor Stratex shall settle any such litigation without the other's prior written consent. In exercising the foregoing rights, each of Stratex and Harris shall act reasonably and as promptly as practicable; , that none of Stratex, Harris or Newco shall be required to comply with clause (ii) or (iii) if it has been advised by outside counsel that by doing so it is reasonably likely that it would be sharing sensitive information regarding the competitive position of Harris or Stratex, as the case may be, prior to the receipt of the appropriate Governmental Authorizations; , that documents produced in response to Item 4C on the pre-merger report form under the HSR Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder shall be deemed to be competitively sensitive and neither party shall be required to share such documents pursuant to this prior to the receipt of the appropriate Governmental Authorizations.
provided, however
provided, further
Section 9.4(b)
      (c) To the extent permitted by applicable Law, Stratex and Harris each shall, upon request by the other, furnish the other with all information concerning itself, its affiliates, directors, officers and stockholders and such other matters as may be reasonably necessary or advisable in connection with any other statement, filing, notice or application made by or on behalf of Newco, Harris, Stratex or any of their respective Subsidiaries to any third party and/or any Government Entity in connection with any of the Transactions.
      (d) Each party shall promptly notify the other parties in writing of: (i) the discovery by such party of any event, condition, fact or circumstance that occurred or existed on or prior to the date of the Original Formation Agreement which caused or represents a material breach of, or a material inaccuracy in, any representation or warranty made by such party in this Agreement; (ii) any event, condition, fact or circumstance that occurs, arises or exists after the date of the Original Formation Agreement which would have caused or represented a material breach of, or a material inaccuracy in, any representation or warranty made by such party in this Agreement if (y) such representation or warranty had been made as of the time of the occurrence, existence or discovery of such event, condition, fact or circumstance, or (z) such event, condition, fact or circumstance had occurred, arisen or existed on or prior to the date of the Original Formation Agreement; (iii) any material breach of any covenant or obligation of such party in this Agreement; and (iv) any event, condition, fact or circumstance that would make the timely satisfaction of any condition set forth in impossible or reasonably unlikely to occur or that has had or could reasonably be expected to have, in the case of Harris, a Harris Material Adverse Effect or, in the case of Stratex, a Stratex Material Adverse Effect. No notification given pursuant to this shall
ARTICLE X
Section 9.4(d)
 
limit or otherwise affect any of the representations, warranties, covenants or obligations of the parties contained in this Agreement.
      9.5.      (a)  Harris shall be liable for any Income Taxes imposed with respect to the Contributed Assets for the Tax periods, or portions thereof, ended on or before the Closing Date.
Tax Matters.
Harris Liability for Income Taxes.
      (b)  Newco (or one of its Subsidiaries) shall be liable for Income Taxes imposed with respect to the Contributed Assets for any Tax period, or portion thereof, beginning after the Closing Date.
Newco Liability for Income Taxes.
      (c)  To the extent necessary to determine the liability for Income Taxes for a portion of a Tax year or period that begins before and ends after the Closing Date, the determination of the Income Taxes for the portion of the year or period ending on, and the portion of the Tax year or period beginning after, the Closing Date shall be determined by assuming that the Tax year or period ended as of the close of business on the Closing Date.
Proration of Income Taxes.
      (d) 
Tax Returns.
      (i) Harris shall file or cause to be filed when due all Income Tax Returns that are required to be filed by or with respect to the Contributed Assets for Tax years or periods ending on or before the Closing Date and shall pay any Income Taxes due in respect of such Income Tax Returns and Newco (or one of its Subsidiaries) shall file or cause to be filed when due all Income Tax Returns that are required to be filed by or with respect to the Contributed Assets for Tax years or periods ending after the Closing Date and shall pay any Income Taxes due in respect of such Income Tax Returns. Harris shall pay Newco (or one of its Subsidiaries) any Income Taxes for which Harris is liable pursuant to (but which are payable with Income Tax Returns to be filed by Newco (or one or its Subsidiaries) pursuant to the previous sentence) within five (5) days prior to the due date for the filing of such Income Tax Returns.
Section 9.5(a)
      (ii) If Harris shall be liable hereunder for any portion of the Income Tax shown due on any Income Tax Return required to be filed by Newco (or one of its Subsidiaries) to the extent Harris is liable for such Income Tax pursuant to , the party preparing such Income Tax Return shall deliver a copy of the relevant portions of such Income Tax Return to Harris for its review and approval not less than 30 days prior to the date on which such Income Tax Returns are due to be filed (taking into account any applicable extensions). If the parties disagree as to any item reflected on any such return, Harris shall determine how the disputed items are reflected, if at all, after reasonable consultation with Newco.
Section 9.5(a)
      (e)  Newco or one of its Subsidiaries shall promptly notify Harris in writing upon receipt of notice of any pending or threatened audits or assessments with respect to Income Taxes for which Harris (or one of its Affiliates) may be liable hereunder. Harris shall be entitled to participate at its expense in the defense of any Income Tax audit or administrative or court proceeding relating to Income Taxes for which it may be liable, and to employ counsel of its choice at its expense. Harris shall promptly notify Newco in writing upon receipt of notice of any pending or threatened audits or assessments with respect to Income Taxes for which Newco (or one of its Subsidiaries) may be liable hereunder. Newco shall be entitled to participate at its expense in the defense of any Income Tax audit or administrative or court proceeding relating to Income Taxes for which it may be liable, and to employ counsel of its choice at its expense. Neither Harris nor Newco (or one of its Subsidiaries) may agree to settle any claim for Income Taxes for which the other may be liable without the prior written consent of such other party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Contest Provisions.
      (f)  If, after the Closing, Newco (or one of its Subsidiaries) (i) receive any refund, or (ii) utilize the benefit of any overpayment or prepayment of Income Taxes imposed with respect to the Contributed Assets for a period for which Harris is liable under , Newco (or one of its Subsidiaries) shall promptly transfer, or cause to be transferred, to Harris the entire amount of the refund or overpayment (including interest) received or utilized by Newco (or one of its Subsidiaries). If, after the Closing, Harris (or one of its Affiliates) (i) receives any refund,
Use of Refunds and Overpayments.
Section 9.5(a)
 
or (ii) utilizes the benefit of any overpayment or prepayment of Income Taxes imposed with respect to the Contributed Assets for a period for which Newco is liable under , Harris (or its Affiliate) shall promptly transfer, or cause to be transferred, to Newco the entire amount of the refund or overpayment (including interest) received or utilized by Harris (or one of its Affiliates). Newco and Harris each agree to notify the other promptly of both the discovery of a right to claim any such refund or overpayment and the receipt of any such refund or utilization of any such overpayment. Newco and Harris each agree to claim (or to cause the relevant Subsidiary or Affiliate to claim) any of its Subsidiaries to claim) any such refund or to utilize any such overpayment as soon as possible and to furnish to the other all information, records and assistance necessary to verify the amount of the refund or overpayment.
Section 9.5(b)
      (g)  All Taxes that are not Income Taxes that are imposed with respect to the Contributed Assets (including any Transfer Taxes) shall be paid by Newco. Any Tax Returns that must be filed in connection with such Taxes shall be prepared by the party primarily or customarily responsible under applicable local Law for filing such Tax Returns, and such party shall deliver a copy of the relevant portions of such Tax Return to Newco for its review and approval not less than thirty (30) days prior to the date on which such Tax Return is due to be filed (taking into account any applicable extensions); , that the final determination of the items to be reflected on such Tax Return shall be made by the party filing such Tax Return, after reasonable consultation with Newco. Harris or one of its Affiliates shall promptly notify Newco in writing upon receipt of notice of any pending or threatened audits or assessments with respect to Taxes for which Newco may be liable hereunder, and Newco shall have full control over such proceeding with respect to such Taxes.
Other Taxes.
provided, however
      (h)  With respect to those MCD Employees who are employed by Newco within the same calendar year as the Closing, Newco shall, in accordance with and to the extent permitted pursuant to Revenue Procedure C.B. 399, assume all responsibility for preparing and filing Form  Wage and Tax Statement, Form  Transmittal of Income and Tax Statements, Form 941, Employer's Quarterly Federal Tax Return, Form  Employee's Withholding Allowance Certificate and Form  Earned Income Credit Advance Payment Certificate. Harris and Newco agree to comply with the procedures described in Section 5 of the Revenue Procedure
Employee Withholding and Reporting Matters.
96-60,
1996-60
W-2,
W-3,
W-4,
W-5,
84-77.
      (i)  In connection with the preparation of Tax Returns required to be filed by Newco, the Surviving Corporation or the Contributed Subsidiaries following the Closing, Harris shall provide such documentation and other assistance as may be reasonably requested by Newco in order to permit the timely preparation and filing of such Tax Returns including, without limitation, reasonable access to information, books and records and Tax Returns and workpapers relating to the MCD Business for Taxable periods or portions thereof preceding the Closing.
Post-Closing Assistance.
      (j)  Any amount to be indemnified or paid over pursuant to this may not be the subject of an indemnity claim pursuant to
No Other Indemnification.
Section 9.5
ARTICLE XII.
      (k)  Stratex agrees that it will not, and Newco agrees that it will not cause Stratex to, for at least two years following the Closing, distribute to Newco a significant amount of any assets that were owned by Stratex at the Effective Time.
Other.
      9.6.      At the Closing, Harris shall, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries that is a party to an Ancillary Agreement to, execute each Ancillary Agreement to which it is a party, and Newco shall execute and deliver each Ancillary Agreement.
Ancillary Agreements.
      9.7.      Harris shall cause the consummation of the restructuring events set forth on (the "") and shall further be permitted to take all necessary actions to fulfill its obligations under this notwithstanding any restriction imposed on Harris pursuant to The parties agree, on behalf of themselves, each of their Subsidiaries and Newco, all Harris Intercompany Liabilities shall be extinguished and shall terminate at the Effective Time without the payment of any consideration or any other action by any Person and the parties shall take all actions necessary or desirable to evidence such extinguishment and termination.
Restructuring; Harris Intercompany Liabilities.
Schedule O
Harris Restructuring
Section 9.7
Section 8.2.
 
      9.8.      Harris shall notify Stratex in advance of, and make available to Stratex in a timely manner for review all agreements, instruments and other documentation relating to, any Transfer of Excluded Assets prior to the Closing by any Contributed Subsidiary to Harris or any of its Retained Subsidiaries.
Transfer and Assignment of Excluded Assets by Contributed Subsidiary.
      9.9.      To the extent they are assignable without the insurer's consent or any such required consent is obtained, Harris shall, or shall cause its Subsidiaries to, assign to Newco all rights Harris or any of its Subsidiaries have with respect to Assumed Liabilities under third party insurance policies. Harris agrees to use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain any consents of any insurance companies or other third parties required to effect such assignments. If such rights are not assignable, Harris agrees to pay any insurance proceeds received by it or any of its Subsidiaries in respect of such rights to Newco promptly upon the receipt thereof.
Insurance Proceeds.
      9.10.      (a) Newco and Harris shall use all reasonable efforts to cause (i) the shares of Class A Common Stock to be issued in the Merger, (ii) the shares of Class A Common Stock to be reserved for issuance upon the exercise of the Stratex Options, Stratex Awards and future grants of options or stock-based awards by Newco and (iii) the shares of Class A Common Stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of the Class B Common Stock, to be approved for listing on NASDAQ, in each case subject to official notice of issuance, on or prior to the Closing Date.
Listing and De-listing.
      (b) The Surviving Corporation shall use its best efforts to cause the shares of Stratex Common Stock to be no longer quoted on NASDAQ and de registered under the Exchange Act as soon as practicable following the Effective Time.
      9.11.      (a) On or prior to the Effective Time, the parties shall take all necessary action to cause the nine individuals specified in Section 3.01 of the Investor Agreement to be appointed as the only members of the Board of Directors of Newco as of the Effective Time.
Governance.
      (b) On or prior to the Effective Time, the parties shall take all necessary action to cause the persons indicated in to be elected or appointed as officers of Newco in the capacities specified in such Schedule.
Schedule J
      (c) The name of Newco shall be "" subject to modification after the Closing in accordance with the DGCL.
Harris Stratex Networks, Inc.,
      9.12.      Assuming that Harris and Stratex deliver to Newco the Section 16 Information reasonably in advance of the Effective Time, the Board of Directors of Newco, or a committee of Non-Employee Directors thereof (as such term is defined for purposes of Rule  under the Exchange Act), shall prior to the Effective Time adopt a resolution sufficient to exempt the acquisition by the Insiders of Common Stock (including restricted shares of such stock or options to purchase shares of such stock) pursuant to the Transactions from liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act pursuant to Rule  thereunder. "" shall mean information accurate in all material respects regarding the Insiders, the number of shares of the capital stock held by each such Insider, and the number and description of options, stock appreciation rights, restricted shares and other stock-based awards held by each Insider. "" shall mean those Persons who will be subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act as an officer or director of Newco (including Harris as a deputized director).
Section 16 Matters.
16b-3(d)
16b-3
Section 16 Information
Insiders
      9.13.      Stratex shall use all reasonable efforts to cause each person who is an Affiliate of Stratex to deliver to Newco, as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event prior to the Stratex Stockholders Meeting, a written agreement substantially in the form attached as
Affiliates.
Exhibit 13.
      9.14.      (a) Subject to applicable Law, upon reasonable notice, each of Stratex and Harris shall (and shall cause its Subsidiaries to) afford the other's Representatives (including, for this purpose, environmental consultants) reasonable access, during normal business hours throughout the period prior to the Effective Time, to its properties, books, contracts and records and, during such period, each shall (and shall cause its Subsidiaries to) furnish promptly to the other all information
Access; Financial Reporting.
 
concerning its business, properties and personnel as may reasonably be requested; , that notwithstanding the foregoing (i) Harris shall only be required to provide (A) such access to the properties, books, contracts and records which are Related to the MCD Business and (B) such information with respect to the MCD Business, properties which are included in the Contributed Assets and MCD Employees, (ii) no investigation pursuant to this shall affect or be deemed to modify any representation or warranty made by Stratex or Harris, (iii) neither Stratex or Harris shall be required to (A) permit any inspection, or to disclose any information, that its reasonable judgment would result in the disclosure of any trade secrets of third parties or violate any obligations it or any of its Subsidiaries have with respect to confidentiality if it shall have used reasonable efforts to obtain the consent of such third party to such inspection or disclosure or (B) disclose any information of it or any of its Subsidiaries which is subject to the attorney-client privilege. All requests for information made pursuant to this shall be directed to an executive officer of Stratex or Harris, as the case may be, or such Person as may be designated by either of their executive officers, as the case may be. All such information shall be subject to the Confidentiality Agreement.
provided, however
Section 9.14
Section 9.14
      (b) Harris and Stratex shall furnish to the other copies of its customary monthly management financial statements (in the case of Harris, such statements to be limited to these relating to the MCD Business) promptly after they are circulated to such party's senior management. All such information shall be subject to the Confidentiality Agreement.
      9.15.      From time to time after the Closing Date, each party hereto shall, and shall cause its Subsidiaries, promptly to execute, acknowledge and deliver any other assurances, documents or instruments reasonably requested by any other party hereto which are necessary (or reasonably required) in order for the requesting party to satisfy its obligations hereunder, complete and perfect the Contribution of the Contributed Assets and the assumption of the Assumed Liabilities, consummate the Merger or receive the benefits of the transactions contemplated hereby.
Further Assurances.
      9.16.      Neither Harris nor Stratex will, and neither Harris nor Stratex will permit any of its Subsidiaries to, issue or cause the publication of any press release or other public announcement with respect to, or otherwise make any public statement concerning the Contribution Transaction, the Merger or the other Transactions without the prior consent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld) of Harris, in the case of a proposed announcement or statement by Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries, or Stratex, in the case of a proposed announcement or statement by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries, including announcements scheduling press conferences regarding the Contribution Transaction, the Merger or the other Transactions with investors, analysts or members of the press; , that either party may, without the prior consent of the other party, (i) issue or cause the publication of any press release or other public announcement to the extent it is advised by outside counsel that such publication is or is likely to be required by Law or any listing agreement with any national stock exchange and the parties hereto are unable to agree on the content and terms of publication of such publication after engaging in good faith discussions relating thereto and (ii) make public statements (but may not publish any press release) that are consistent with the parties' prior public disclosures after the date of the Original Formation Agreement regarding the Contribution Transaction, the Merger or the other Transactions.
Publicity.
provided, however
      9.17.      Newco shall pay all charges and expenses, including those of the Exchange Agent, in connection with the transactions contemplated in Except as otherwise provided in , whether or not the Merger is consummated, all costs and expenses incurred in connection with this Agreement and the Transactions shall be paid by the party incurring such expense, except that expenses incurred by Newco or Merger Sub, the filing fees for the HSR notification and the Registration Statement and expenses incurred in connection with the publishing, printing or mailing of the Proxy Statement/ Prospectus (but not the attorney's fees related thereto, which shall be paid by the party incurring such expense) shall be shared equally by Harris and Stratex.
Expenses.
ARTICLE VI.
Section 11.2
      9.18.      (a) Newco agrees that, from and after the Effective Time, it will cause the Surviving Corporation for a period of six years from the Effective Time to indemnify and hold harmless each past and present director and officer of Stratex or any of its
Indemnification; Directors' and Officers' Insurance.
 
Subsidiaries (in each case, for acts or failures to act in such capacity) (collectively, the ""), against any costs or expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, losses, claims, damages or liabilities (collectively, "") incurred in connection with any claim, action, suit, proceeding or investigation, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, arising out of matters existing or occurring at or prior to the Effective Time, whether asserted or claimed prior to, at or after the Effective Time, to the fullest extent that Stratex would have been permitted under Delaware law and its certificate of incorporation or bylaws as in effect on the date of the Original Formation Agreement to indemnify such Person (and Newco shall also advance expenses as incurred to the fullest extent permitted under applicable Law; , that the Person to whom expenses are advanced provides an undertaking to repay such advances if it is ultimately determined that such Person is not entitled to indemnification).
D&O Indemnified Parties
Costs
provided, however
      (b) Any D&O Indemnified Party wishing to claim indemnification under paragraph (a) of this , shall notify Newco promptly after learning of any such claim, action, suit, proceeding or investigation. In the event of any such claim, action, suit, proceeding or investigation (whether arising before or after the Effective Time), (i) Newco shall have the right to assume the defense thereof and, if Newco agrees to assume such defense, Newco shall not be liable to such D&O Indemnified Parties for any legal expenses of such D&O Indemnified Parties' counsel or any other expenses incurred by such D&O Indemnified Parties after Newco assumes such defense, (ii) the D&O Indemnified Parties will cooperate, at Newco's expense, in the defense of any such matter, and (iii) Newco shall not be liable for any settlement effected without its prior written consent; , that Newco shall not have any obligation hereunder to any D&O Indemnified Party if and when a court of competent jurisdiction shall ultimately determine, and such determination shall have become final, that the indemnification of such D&O Indemnified Party in the manner contemplated hereby is prohibited by applicable Law.
Section 9.18
provided, however
      (c) For a period of six years after the Effective Time, Newco shall cause the Surviving Corporation to maintain Stratex's existing officers' and directors' liability insurance ("") covering those Persons who are covered by Stratex's D&O Insurance in effect as of the date of the Original Formation Agreement so long as the annual premium therefor is not in excess of 200% of the last annual premium paid prior to the date of the Original Formation Agreement, which is set forth in (the ""); , that if the existing D&O Insurance exceeds 200%, expires, is terminated or cancelled during such six-year period, the Surviving Corporation shall obtain as much D&O Insurance as can be obtained for the remainder of such period for a premium not in excess (on an annualized basis) of 200% of the Current Premium (such 200% amount, the ""). In lieu of purchasing D&O Insurance pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence, Stratex may purchase a six-year "tail" prepaid policy prior to the Effective Time on terms and conditions no less advantageous to the D&O Indemnified Parties than the existing D&O Insurance maintained by Stratex; , that the amount paid by Stratex shall not exceed two (2) the Maximum Annual Premium. Stratex shall cooperate with Harris in good faith to explore the possibility of satisfying the obligations of Newco under this by purchasing a "tail" period policy satisfying the requirements of this . If such "tail" prepaid policy has been obtained by Stratex prior to the Closing, the Surviving Corporation shall, and Newco shall cause the Surviving Corporation to, maintain such policy in full force and effect, for its full term, and continue to honor their respective obligations thereunder, and all other obligations under this shall terminate.
D&O Insurance
Section 9.18 of the Stratex Disclosure Letter
Current Premium
provided, however
Maximum Annual Premium
provided
times
Section 9.18(c)
Section 9.18(c)
Section 9.18(c)
      (d) If Newco or any of its successors or assigns (i) shall consolidate with or merge into any other corporation or entity and shall not be the continuing or surviving corporation or entity of such consolidation or merger or (ii) shall transfer all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any individual, corporation or other entity, then, and in each such case, proper provisions shall be made so that the successors and assigns of Newco shall assume all of the obligations set forth in this
Section 9.18.
      (e) The obligations under this shall not be terminated, amended or otherwise modified in such a manner as to adversely affect any D&O Indemnified Party without the prior written consent of such affected D&O Indemnified Party. Each of the D&O Indemnified Parties are intended to be third party beneficiaries of this , with full rights of enforcement as if a party thereto. The rights of
Section 9.18
Section 9.18
 
the D&O Indemnified Parties under this shall be in addition to, and not in substitution for, any other rights that such persons may have under the certificate or articles of incorporation, bylaws or other equivalent organizational documents, any and all indemnification agreements of or entered into by Newco or any of its Subsidiaries, or applicable Law (whether at law or in equity).
Section 9.18
      9.19.      If any Takeover Statute is or may become applicable to the shares of Stratex Common Stock, the Contribution Transaction, the Merger or the other Transactions, Stratex and its Board of Directors shall grant such approvals and take such actions as are necessary so that such transactions may be consummated as promptly as practicable on the terms contemplated by this Agreement and otherwise act to eliminate or minimize the effects of such Takeover Statute on shares of Stratex Common Stock, the Contribution Transaction, the Merger or the other Transactions.
Takeover Statute.
      10.1.      The obligations of Harris and Stratex to effect the Contribution Transactions and the Merger, respectively, are subject to the satisfaction or waiver at or prior to the Closing of each of the following conditions:
Conditions to Harris' and Stratex's Obligations to Effect the Transactions.
      10.2.      The obligation of Harris to effect the Contribution Transaction is also subject to the satisfaction or waiver at or prior to the Closing of each of the following conditions:
Conditions to Harris' Obligation to Effect the Contribution Transaction.
 
      10.3.      The obligation of Stratex to effect the Merger is also subject to the satisfaction or waiver by Stratex at or prior to the Closing of the following conditions:
Conditions to Stratex's Obligation to Effect the Merger.
 
      11.1.      This Agreement may be terminated and the Transactions may be abandoned at any time prior to the Closing, whether before or after obtaining the Stratex Requisite Vote,
Termination.
 
      11.2.     
Effect of Termination and Abandonment.
      (a) In the event of termination of this Agreement and the abandonment of the Transactions pursuant to this , this Agreement (other than as set forth in ) shall become void and of no effect with no liability on the part of any party hereto (or of any of its directors, officers or other Representatives); , that no such termination shall relieve any party hereto of any liability or damages resulting from any breach of this Agreement prior to such termination.
ARTICLE XI
Section 13.1
provided, however
      (b) In the event that at any time after the date of the Original Formation Agreement and prior to its termination a bona fide Acquisition Proposal (assuming, for this purpose only, that all references to "15%" in the definition of such term were changed to "a majority" (a "")) shall have been made to Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries or its stockholders or any Person shall have publicly announced an intention (whether or not conditional) to make a Covered Proposal with respect to Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries and thereafter this Agreement is terminated by either Harris or Stratex pursuant to (unless (i) any of the conditions set forth in or (other than ) shall not have been satisfied (or, in the case of any such condition to be satisfied at the Closing, capable of such satisfaction) at the time of such termination, or (ii) the only condition to Harris' obligation to effect the Contribution Transaction which is not satisfied at the time of such termination (other than, in the case of any such conditions to be satisfied at the Closing, those that are capable of such satisfaction) is Section 10.2(f) and the events, conditions or circumstances which caused such condition not to be satisfied were not, directly or indirectly, within the control of Stratex or any of its Subsidiaries) or or by Harris pursuant to or ,
Covered Proposal
Section 11.1(b)(i)
Section 10.1(e)
Section 10.3
Section 10.3(g)
Section 11.1(b)(ii)
Section 11.1(c)(ii)
Section 11.1(c)(iii)
 
then (A) Stratex shall promptly, but in no event later than two days after being notified of such by Harris, reimburse Harris for all of the documented -pocket expenses incurred by Harris in connection with this Agreement and the Transactions up to a maximum amount of $2 million by wire transfer of immediately available funds and (B) if Stratex (I) consummates any Covered Proposal with any Person within the twelve-month period immediately following the date on which this Agreement has been so terminated (the "") or (II) enters into a definitive agreement for any Covered Proposal with any Person during the Tail Period and (x) consummates any Covered Proposal with such Person within the twelve-month period immediately following the end of the Tail Period or (y) consummates any Covered Proposal with any other Person within the fifteen-month period immediately following the end of the Tail Period, then in each such case Stratex shall pay to Harris on or prior to such consummation of such Covered Proposal by wire transfer of immediately available funds a termination fee equal to $14.5 million (the "") the aggregate amount of expenses previously reimbursed pursuant to clause (A) of this .
out-of
Tail Period
Termination Fee
minus
Section 11.2(b)
      (c) In the event that this Agreement is terminated by Harris pursuant to or , then Stratex shall promptly, but in no event later than two days after the date of such termination, pay to Harris the Termination Fee by wire transfer of immediately available funds.
Section 11.1(c)(i)
Section 11.1(c)(iv)
      (d) In the event that Stratex terminates this Agreement pursuant to , Stratex shall pay to Harris the Termination Fee by wire transfer of immediately available funds immediately prior to, and as a condition of, such termination.
Section 11.1(e)
      (e) Stratex acknowledges that the agreements contained in , and are an integral part of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and that, without these agreements, Harris would not enter into this Agreement; accordingly, if Stratex fails to promptly pay any amounts due pursuant to , or , and, in order to obtain such payment, Harris commences a suit that results in a judgment against Stratex for such amounts, Stratex shall pay to Harris its costs and expenses (including attorneys' fees) in connection with such suit and any amounts payable by Stratex pursuant to this which are not paid when due shall bear interest from the due date to the payment date at a rate per annum equal to 2% above the prime rate of Citibank, N.A. in effect on the date such amounts were due.
Section 11.2(b)
Section 11.2(c)
Section 11.2(d)
Section 11.2(b)
Section 11.2(c)
Section 11.2(d)
Section 11.2
      12.1.      The representations and warranties of Harris and Stratex contained in this Agreement or any certificate delivered in accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall not survive the Closing.
No Survival of Representations and Warranties.
      12.2.      From and after the Closing Date, Newco shall indemnify and defend and hold Harris and its Subsidiaries, directors, officers, partners, employees, representatives and agents (collectively with Harris, the "") harmless from and against any and all Losses incurred by any Harris Indemnified Person (whether or not involving a third-party claim) arising out of or relating to (a) any breach by Newco or any of its Subsidiaries of any covenants of Newco contained in this Agreement to be performed by Newco or any of its Subsidiaries following the Closing (it being agreed that any action or inaction approved by the Board of Directors of Newco shall not be subject to indemnity under this if a majority of the directors of Newco at the time of such action or inaction were Class B Directors (as such term is defined in the Investor Agreement), (b) any Assumed Liability, (c) any Liability arising out of or relating to the operation of the businesses or Properties or Liabilities of (i) Stratex prior to the Closing or (ii) Newco and/or any of its Subsidiaries on or after the Closing.
Indemnification by Newco.
Harris Indemnified Persons
Section 12.2
      12.3.      From and after the Closing Date, Harris shall indemnify and defend and hold Newco and its Subsidiaries, directors, officers, partners, employees, representatives and agents (collectively with Newco, the "") harmless from and against any and
Indemnification by Harris.
Newco Indemnified Persons
 
all Losses incurred by any Newco Indemnified Person (whether or not involving a third-party claim) arising out of or relating to (a) any breach by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries of any covenants of Harris contained in this Agreement to be performed by Harris or any of its Subsidiaries following the Closing or (b) any Excluded Asset or Excluded Liability.
      12.4.      If any claim or action by a third party is made in writing against a Harris Indemnified Person or a Newco Indemnified Person (each, an "") for which indemnification is provided under this Agreement and such Indemnified Party intends to seek such indemnity, then such Indemnified Party shall promptly notify the party from whom indemnification may be sought hereunder (the "") in writing of such claim or action; , that any failure by such Indemnified Party to such give such notice promptly will not relieve the Indemnifying Party of any of its indemnification obligation hereunder except to the extent that the Indemnifying Party is actually prejudiced by such failure. In case any such action shall be brought against any Indemnified Party, the Indemnifying Party shall be entitled to participate therein or, at its election, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Party. After notice from the Indemnifying Party to the Indemnified Party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the Indemnifying Party shall not be liable to the Indemnified Party under this for any legal expenses of other counsel or any other expenses subsequently incurred by the Indemnified Party in connection with the defense thereof (other than reasonable costs of investigation) unless the Indemnified Party shall have been advised by counsel that representation of the Indemnified Party by counsel provided by the Indemnifying Party would be inappropriate due to actual or potential conflicting interests between the Indemnified Party and the Indemnifying Party, including situations in which there are one or more legal defenses available to the Indemnified Party that are different from or additional to those available to Indemnifying Party; , that notwithstanding the foregoing the Indemnifying Party shall not, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar actions arising out of the same general allegations, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate set of counsel at any time for all Indemnified Parties, except to the extent that local counsel, in addition to their regular counsel, is required in order to effectively defend against such action. No Indemnifying Party shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Party, effect the settlement or compromise of, or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to, any pending or threatened action or claim in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the Indemnified Party is an actual or potential party to such action or claim) unless such settlement, compromise or judgment (i) includes an unconditional release of the Indemnified Party from all liability arising out of such action or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of the Indemnified Party. No indemnification shall be available in respect of any settlement of any action or claim effected by an Indemnified Party without the prior written consent of the Indemnifying Party.
Third Party Claims.
Indemnified Party
Indemnifying Party
provided, however
ARTICLE XII
provided, however
      12.5.      Any and all Losses for which indemnification is provided hereunder shall be (a) increased to take into account any net Taxes actually payable by the applicable Indemnified Parties attributable to the receipt of such payment (grossed up for such increase) and (b) reduced to take into account any net tax benefit actually realized by the applicable Indemnified Party as a result of incurring such Losses or any insurance proceeds actually recovered in respect of such Losses (net of any cost of recovery or increased premiums resulting therefrom) and each party agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to recover all available insurance proceeds.
Tax and Insurance Adjustments.
      13.1.      (a) This , the agreements of Stratex, Harris and Newco, as applicable, contained in (Excluded Assets), (Nonassignability of Assets), (Exchange of Certificates), (Dissenters' Rights), (Treatment of Stratex Stock Plans), (Tax Matters), (Insurance Proceeds), (Further
Survival.
ARTICLE XIII
Section 3.1(b)
Section 3.7
Section 6.2
Section 6.3
Section 6.4
Section 9.5
Section 9.9
Section 9.15
 
Assurances), (Expenses), (Indemnification; Directors' and Officers' Insurance) and (Survival and Indemnification) shall survive the consummation of the Contribution Transaction, the Merger and the other Transactions and all representations and warranties and other covenants and agreements in this Agreement shall not survive the consummation of the Contribution Transaction, the Merger. Harris agrees that a majority of the Class A Directors (as defined in the Investor Agreement) shall have the sole and exclusive right to exercise and enforce any rights under this Agreement which Newco or any of its Subsidiaries are entitled to enforce against Harris after Closing.
Section 9.17
Section 9.18
ARTICLE XII
      (b) This , the agreements of Stratex and Harris contained in (Expenses), (Effect of Termination and Abandonment) and the Confidentiality Agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement, and all other representations, warranties, covenants and agreements in this Agreement shall not survive the termination of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XIII
Section 9.17
Section 11.2
      13.2.      Subject to applicable Law, at any time prior to the Effective Time, this Agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented, and any provision hereof waived, only in a writing signed by the parties hereto.
Modification or Amendment.
      13.3.      The conditions to each of the parties' obligations to consummate the Contribution Transaction or the Merger are for the sole benefit of such party and may be waived by such party in whole or in part to the extent permitted by applicable Law. No failure or delay by any party to take any action with respect to a breach by another party of this Agreement or a default by another party hereunder shall constitute a waiver of the former party's right to enforce any provision of this Agreement or to take action with respect to such breach or default or any subsequent breach or default. Waiver by any party of any breach or failure to comply with any provision of this Agreement by another party shall not be construed as, or constitute, a continuing wavier of such provisions, or a waiver of any other breach of or failure to comply with any other provisions of this Agreement.
Waiver of Conditions.
      13.4.      This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each such counterpart being deemed to be an original instrument, and all such counterparts shall together constitute the same agreement.
Counterparts.
      13.5.      The parties hereby irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of Delaware and the Federal courts of the United States of America located in the State of Delaware solely in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and of the documents referred to in this Agreement, and in respect of the Transactions, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense in any action, suit or proceeding for the interpretation or enforcement hereof or of any such document, that it is not subject thereto or that such action, suit or proceeding may not be brought or is not maintainable in said courts or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate or that this Agreement or any such document may not be enforced in or by such courts, and the parties hereto irrevocably agree that all claims with respect to such action or proceeding shall be heard and determined in such a Delaware State or Federal court. The parties hereby consent to and grant any such court jurisdiction over the person of such parties and, to the extent permitted by law, over the subject matter of such dispute and agree that mailing of process or other papers in connection with any such action or proceeding in the manner provided in or in such other manner as may be permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service thereof.
(a) THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE MADE IN AND IN ALL RESPECTS SHALL BE INTERPRETED, CONSTRUED AND GOVERNED BY AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF.
GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE; WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL.
Section 13.6
      (b) EACH PARTY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT ANY CONTROVERSY WHICH MAY ARISE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT IS LIKELY TO INVOLVE COMPLICATED AND DIFFICULT ISSUES, AND THEREFORE EACH SUCH PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT SUCH PARTY MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY
 
THIS AGREEMENT. EACH PARTY CERTIFIES AND ACKNOWLEDGES THAT (I) NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER, (II) EACH PARTY UNDERSTANDS AND HAS CONSIDERED THE IMPLICATIONS OF THIS WAIVER, (III) EACH PARTY MAKES THIS WAIVER VOLUNTARILY, AND (IV) EACH PARTY HAS BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS
SECTION 13.5.
      13.6. Any notice, request, instruction or other document to be given hereunder by any party to the others shall be in writing and delivered personally or sent by registered or certified mail or by overnight courier, postage prepaid, or by facsimile:
Notices.
or to such other Persons or addresses as may be designated in writing by the party to receive such notice as provided above. Any notice, request, instruction or other document given as provided above shall be deemed given to the receiving party upon actual receipt, if delivered personally; three (3) Business Days after deposit in the mail, if sent by registered or certified mail; upon confirmation of successful transmission if sent by facsimile (provided that if given by facsimile such notice, request, instruction or other document shall be followed up within one (1) Business Day by dispatch pursuant to one of the other methods described herein); or on the next Business Day after deposit with a nationally recognized overnight courier, if sent by a nationally recognized overnight courier.
      13.7.      This Agreement (including any Exhibits and Schedules hereto), the Stratex Disclosure Letter, the Harris Disclosure Letter and the Confidentiality Agreement constitute the entire agreement, and supersede all other prior agreements, understandings, representations and warranties both written and oral, among the parties, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement.
 
      13.8.      Except as provided in (Indemnification; Directors' and Officers' Insurance), this Agreement is not intended to, and does not, confer upon any Person other than the parties who are signatories hereto any rights or remedies hereunder.
No Third Party Beneficiaries.
Section 9.18
      13.9.      Whenever this Agreement requires a Subsidiary of Harris to take any action, such requirement shall be deemed to include an undertaking on the part of Harris to cause such Subsidiary to take such action. Whenever this Agreement requires a Subsidiary of Stratex to take any action, such requirement shall be deemed to include an undertaking on the part of Stratex to cause such Subsidiary to take such action. Whenever this Agreement requires Newco to take any action prior to the Effective Time, unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, such requirement shall be deemed to include an undertaking on the part of Harris and Stratex to take the necessary actions to cause Newco to take such action.
Obligations of Harris and of Stratex.
      13.10.      The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any provision shall not affect the validity or enforceability or the other provisions hereof. If any provision of this Agreement, or the application thereof to any Person or any circumstance, is invalid or unenforceable, (a) a suitable and equitable provision shall be substituted therefor in order to carry out, so far as may be valid and enforceable, the intent and purpose of such invalid or unenforceable provision and (b) the remainder of this Agreement and the application of such provision to other Persons or circumstances shall not be affected by such invalidity or unenforceability, nor shall such invalidity or unenforceability affect the validity or enforceability of such provision, or the application thereof, in any other jurisdiction.
Severability.
      13.11.      (a) The table of contents and headings herein are for convenience of reference only, do not constitute part of this Agreement and shall not be deemed to limit or otherwise affect any of the provisions hereof.
Interpretation; Construction.
      (b) The parties have participated jointly in negotiating and drafting this Agreement. In the event that an ambiguity or a question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly by the parties, and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of the authorship of any provision of this Agreement.
      (c) Each of Stratex and Harris has or may have set forth information in its respective disclosure letter in a section thereof that corresponds to the section of this Agreement to which it relates. A matter set forth in one section of a disclosure letter need not be set forth in any other section of the disclosure letter so long as its relevance to the latter section of the disclosure letter or section of this Agreement is readily apparent on the face of the information disclosed in the disclosure letter to the Person to which such disclosure is being made. The fact that any item of information is disclosed in a disclosure letter to this Agreement shall not be construed to mean that such information is required to be disclosed by this Agreement. Such information and the dollar thresholds set forth herein shall not be used as a basis for interpreting the terms "material," "Stratex Material Adverse Effect," "Harris Material Adverse Effect" or other similar terms in this Agreement.
      13.12.      This Agreement shall not be assignable by operation of law or otherwise. Any purported assignment in violation of this Agreement is void.
Assignment.
 
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the duly authorized officers of the parties hereto as of the date first written above.

Table of Contents
EXHIBIT 10.1
Dated: January 26, 2007
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
      INVESTOR AGREEMENT(the ""), dated as of January 26, 2007, between HARRIS CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (""), and HARRIS STRATEX NETWORKS, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "").
Agreement
Harris
Company
      WHEREAS, Harris, the Company, and Stratex Networks, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), and Stratex Merger Corp., a Delaware Corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of the Company have entered into an Amended and Restated Formation, Contribution and Merger Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2006 as amended by that certain letter agreement, dated January 26, 2007 (the ""), among the parties thereto pursuant to which the Company was formed to acquire Stratex pursuant to the Merger and to receive the Contributed Assets from Harris in the Contribution Transaction, in each case on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Formation Agreement; and
Stratex
Formation Agreement
      WHEREAS, Harris and Stratex would not have entered into the Formation Agreement without the undertakings contained in this Agreement and the execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to closing under the Formation Agreement.
      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual covenants in the Agreements the parties agree as follows:
      1.1.      All capitalized terms used but not defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Formation Agreement. In addition, the following terms shall have the meanings specified below:
Certain Definitions.
      "" shall have the meaning assigned to such term by Rule 405 under the Securities Act; , that neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of Harris or any of its other Subsidiaries.
Affiliate
provided, however
      "" means, collectively, the Formation Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements attached thereto as exhibits and any other agreements provided or contemplated by any of the foregoing.
Agreements
      "" means, with respect to any transaction, terms and conditions for such transaction that are no less favorable in any material respect to the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, than those which could have been obtained in an arm's length negotiation between informed and willing unrelated parties under no compulsion to act taking into account all the facts and circumstances then prevailing; , that notwithstanding the foregoing any terms and conditions of a transaction approved by a majority of the Class A Directors shall be deemed to be Arm's Length Terms.
Arm's Length Terms
provided, however
      "" means any Director who satisfies the requirements of Rule 4350(d)(2)(A) of the NASDAQ Rules with respect to the Company.
Audit Independent Director
      A Person shall be deemed the "" of, and shall be deemed to "", any securities which such Person or any of its Affiliates would be deemed to "beneficially own" within the meaning of Rule  under the Exchange Act if the references to "within 60 days" in Rule  were omitted.
beneficial owner
beneficially own
13d-3
13d-3(d)(1)(i)
      "" means the board of directors of the Company.
Board
      "" means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks in The City of New York are authorized or obligated by Law or executive order to close.
Business Day
      "" means the Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01, of the Company.
Class A Common Stock
      "" means any Director other than a Class B Director.
Class A Director
      "" means the Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01, of the Company.
Class B Common Stock
Table of Contents
      "" means any of the Initial Harris Directors, any Director elected by a separate class vote of the holders of the Class B Common Stock and any Director appointed to replace or fill any vacancy created by the removal, resignation, death or incapacity of any Class B Director.
Class B Director
      "" means the date on which the Closing occurred under the Formation Agreement.
Closing Date
      "" means, collectively, the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock.
Common Stock
      "" means any director who is a member of the Board.
Director
      "" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
      "" means, with respect to any transaction, the fair market value of the total consideration paid or payable for goods or services pursuant to such transaction.
Fair Market Value
      "" means, collectively, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Company attached hereto as and , respectively, as they may be amended from time to time.
Governing Instruments
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
      "" means any domestic or foreign governmental, regulatory or administrative authority, agency, instrumentality, commission, body, court or other entity, whether legislative, executive, judicial or otherwise, and any arbitration panel, arbitrator or other entity with authority to resolve any dispute.
Government Entity
      "" means, collectively, the Initial Harris Directors and Initial Stratex Directors.
Initial Directors
      "" means Guy M. Campbell, Eric C. Evans, Howard L. Lance, Dr. Mohsen Sohi and Dr. James C. Stoffel.
Initial Harris Directors
      "" means William A. Hasler, Clifford H. Higgerson, Charles D. Kissner, and Edward F. Thompson.
Initial Stratex Directors
      "" means any federal, state, local or foreign law, statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, judgment, order, injunction, decree, arbitration award, agency requirement, license or permit of any Government Entity.
Law
      "" means any claim, suit, action, arbitration, inquiry, investigation or other proceeding of any nature (whether criminal, civil, legislative, administrative, regulatory, prosecutorial or otherwise) by or before any arbitrator or Government Entity.
Litigation
      "" means the rules promulgated by The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. which apply to issuers whose common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Market
NASDAQ Rules
      "" means, with respect to any Person, any nominee, custodian or other Person who holds shares of Common Stock for such Person without investment discretion.
Nominee
      "" means any individual, corporation (including not-for-profit), general or limited partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, estate, trust, association, organization, Government Entity or other entity of any kind or nature.
Person
      "" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
      "" means, with respect to any Person, (i) any corporation more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by such Person, any of its other Subsidiaries or any combination thereof or (ii) any Person other than a corporation in which such Person, any of its other Subsidiaries or any combination thereof has, directly or indirectly, majority economic ownership or the power to direct or cause the direction of the policies, management and affairs thereof; , that notwithstanding the foregoing neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed to be a Subsidiary of Harris or any of its other Subsidiaries for purposes of this Agreement.
Subsidiary
provided, however
      "" means to sell, transfer or assign.
Transfer
Table of Contents
      "" means, at any time, the total number of votes then entitled to be cast generally in the election of Class A Directors by all holders of Voting Securities (including the holders of Class B Common Stock).
Total Voting Power
      "" means, at any time, all classes of capital stock or other securities of the Company then outstanding and entitled to vote generally in the election of the Class A Directors.
Voting Securities
      1.2.      The following terms are defined in the Sections indicated:
Additional Definitions.
      1.3.     . The definitions set forth or referred to above shall apply equally to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". All references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be deemed to be references to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement unless the context shall otherwise require. Unless the context shall otherwise require, any reference to any contract, instrument, statute, rule or regulation is a reference to it as amended and supplemented from time to time (and, in the case of a statute, rule or regulation, to any successor provision). Any reference in this Agreement to a "day" or a number of "days" (without the explicit qualification of "Business") shall be interpreted as a reference to a calendar day or number of calendar days.
Terms Generally
Table of Contents
      2.1.     . Harris and the Company desire to set forth in this Agreement certain terms and conditions upon which Harris will hold its equity interests in the Company, including but not limited its rights as a holder of Class B Common Stock. Solely with respect to Harris' rights as a holder of Class B Common Stock, if there is any inconsistency between the terms of this Agreement and the Governing Instruments as a result of any amendment of this Agreement or otherwise, the parties agree to take promptly all necessary action to amend the Governing Instruments to eliminate such inconsistency to the fullest extent permitted by Law.
Scope of Agreement
      2.2.     . On or prior to the execution and delivery of this Agreement, Harris and Stratex have caused the Company to be incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware with Governing Instruments in the form attached hereto as and As of the date of this Agreement, Harris owns, directly or indirectly through its Affiliates, all the outstanding Class B Common Stock and the shareholders of Stratex immediately prior to the Effective Time own all the outstanding Class A Common Stock. Pursuant to the Governing Instruments, the rights and privileges of the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock are identical in all respects except that the holders of the Class B Common Stock have the additional right to vote separately as a class to elect, remove and replace the Class B Directors (the ""), the right to receive Class B Common Stock instead of Class A Common Stock in certain circumstances, the absence of certain duties and obligations with respect to Corporate Opportunities (as defined in the Governing Instruments) and preemptive rights consistent with those granted in Section 4.5 hereof. The holders of Class B Common Stock also have the right at any time to exchange (a) any outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock held by such holder for an equal number of shares of Class B Common Stock or (b) any outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock for an equal number of shares of Class A Common Stock, in each case as provided in the Governing Instruments. Each outstanding share of Class B Common Stock shall convert into one outstanding share of Class A Common Stock automatically and without any further action by the Company or any other Person if: (i) the holders of all of the outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock (assuming that all the outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock which are then exchangeable for Class B Common Stock have been so exchanged) are collectively entitled to cast less than 10% of the Total Voting Power or (ii) such Class B Common Stock is transferred by a holder to any Person who is not an Affiliate of such holder or a Nominee of such holder or one of its Affiliates; that notwithstanding the foregoing no such conversion shall occur if such transfer is part of a transfer by such holder and its Affiliates of all of the shares of Class B Common Stock then owned by them (either directly or through a Nominee (as defined below)) to any other Person or to any other Person and its Affiliates. As of the date of this Agreement, the Class B Common Stock represents 56% of the outstanding Common Stock determined on a fully diluted basis using the treasury stock method assuming a market price per share of Class A Common Stock equal to $20.80.
Governing Instruments and Class B Common Stock
Exhibit A
Exhibit B.
Additional Voting Rights
provided, however,
      3.1.     . (a) As of the date of this Agreement, the Board is comprised of nine directors of which the Initial Harris Directors are the five Class B Directors and the Initial Stratex Directors are the four Class A Directors. Of the Initial Harris Directors, Eric C. Evans is an Audit Independent Director, James C. Stoffel is not an employee of Harris or any of its Subsidiaries and Guy M. Campbell is the chief executive officer of the Company, in each case as of the date of this Agreement. Of the Initial Stratex Directors, William A. Hasler and Edward F. Thompson are Audit Independent Directors and Charles D. Kissner is the Chairman of the Board, in each case as of the date of this Agreement. All Directors shall be elected at each annual meeting of the Company's shareholders and the Initial Directors shall serve until their successors are elected at the first such annual meeting. Until the second anniversary of the date of this
Role and Composition of the Board
Table of Contents
Agreement, one of the Class B Directors must be an Audit Independent Director and one of the other Class B Directors must not be an employee of Harris or any of its Subsidiaries.
      (b) At all times when the holders of all the outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock (assuming that all the outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock which are then exchangeable for Class B Common Stock have been so exchanged) are collectively entitled to cast a majority of the Total Voting Power, (i) the Company will rely on the Controlled Company exemption contained in Rule 4350(c)(5) of the NASDAQ Rules, (ii) the Board will be comprised of nine Directors, (iii) the holders of Class B Common Stock shall be entitled to elect five of the Directors pursuant to the Additional Voting Rights and the quorum for action by the Board shall be a majority of the Board, which majority shall include at least four Class B Directors and (iv) the remaining four Directors will be Class A Directors nominated by a nominating committee consisting solely of the Class A Directors then in office (the ""), and elected by the holders of the Common Stock, voting together as a single class; , that at all times when Rule 4350(d)(2)(A) of the NASDAQ Rules applies to the Company a sufficient number of the Class A Directors must satisfy the requirements of that Rule with respect to the Company so that, together with any Class B Directors which are required or otherwise satisfy such requirements with respect to the Company, there are enough Directors to constitute an audit committee of the Board which complies with the requirements of Rule 4350(d) of the NASDAQ Rules. Harris agrees to vote, or caused to be voted, all Voting Securities owned by it, its Affiliates and their respective Nominees in favor of the election of the Class A Directors nominated by the Nominating Committee pursuant to this Section 3.1(b).
Nominating Committee
provided, however
      (c) At all times when the holders of all of the outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock (assuming that all the outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock which are then exchangeable for Class B Common Stock have been so exchanged) are collectively entitled to cast a percentage of the Total Voting Power (the "") which is less than a majority but equal to or greater than 10% of the Total Voting Power (i) the Class B Common Stock shall be entitled to elect pursuant to the Additional Voting Rights a number of Class B Directors which represents the Voting Percentage of the total number of Directors then comprising the entire Board (rounded down to the next whole number of Directors), and (ii) the remaining Directors will be Class A Directors nominated by the Nominating Committee (the composition of which shall comply with the requirements of Rule 4350(c)(4) of the NASDAQ Rules) and elected by the holders of the Common Stock, voting together as a single class; , that at all times when such rules apply to the Company a sufficient number of the Class A Directors must (A) qualify as an Independent Director with respect to the Company as such term is defined in Rule 4200(15) of the NASDAQ Rules so that Board complies with Rule 4350(c)(1) of the NASD Rules and (B) satisfy the requirements of Rule 4350(d)(2)(A) of the NASDAQ Rules with respect to the Company so that, together with any Class B Directors which are required to or otherwise satisfy such requirements with respect to the Company, there are enough Directors to constitute an audit committee which complies with the requirements of Rule 4350(d) of the NASDAQ Rules. The Nominating Committee will nominate individuals for election as Class A Directors who comply with the foregoing requirements and Harris agrees to vote, or cause to be voted, all Voting Securities owned by it, its Affiliates and their respective Nominees in favor of the election of such nominees.
Voting Percentage
provided, however
      3.2.      (a) Without limiting Harris' obligations under Section 3.1(a), the holders of the Class B Common Stock, voting separately as a class, shall have the sole right to remove the Class B Directors with or without cause at any time and for any reason and the sole right to elect successor Directors to fill any vacancies on the Board caused by any such removals. Any vacancy created by any resignation, death or incapacity of any Class B Director shall be filled by the remaining Class B Directors then in office or, if there are none, by the holders of the Class B Common Stock, voting separately as a class.
Removal and Vacancies.
      (b) The holders of the Class A Common Stock, voting separately as a class, shall have the sole right to remove the Class A Directors without cause and the sole right to appoint successor Directors to fill any vacancies on the Board caused by any such removals. Any vacancy created by the resignation, death or incapacity of any Class A Director shall be filled by the remaining Class A Directors then in office or, if
Table of Contents
there are none, by the holders of the Class A Common Stock, voting separately as a class. Harris agrees that none of the shares of Class A Common Stock owned by it, any of its Affiliates or any of their respective Nominees will be voted for the removal of any Class A Director without cause and all such shares will be voted for the election of the individual nominated by the Nominating Committee to replace any Class A Director who has been removed with or without cause.
      (c) The holders of the Common Stock, voting together as a single class, shall have the sole right to remove the Class A Directors for cause and the sole right to elect successor Directors to fill any vacancies on the Board caused by any such removals.
      3.3.      At all times, the audit, nominating and compensation committees of the Board shall comply with the applicable requirements of Rule 4350 of the NASDAQ Rules (after taking advantage of all available exemptions for Controlled Companies under such Rules).
Committees.
      3.4.      All actions of the Board must be approved by a majority of a quorum.
Voting Requirements.
      3.5.      Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if any transaction or transactions occur which entitle the holders of Class B Common Stock to preemptive rights under Section 4.5, then no determination of the percentage of the Total Voting Power collectively entitled to be cast by the holders of all the outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock (assuming that all the outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock which are then exchangeable for Class B Common Stock have been so exchanged) shall be made for any purpose under this Agreement until after the exercise or expiration of all such preemptive rights in respect of all such transactions by such holders.
Determination of Total Voting Power.
      4.1.      For a period of two years from the Closing Date, Harris may not acquire or dispose of beneficial ownership of any Voting Securities of the Company through open-market transactions, third party purchases, business combinations or otherwise except (i) pursuant to Section 4.5, (ii) as a result of any actions taken by the Company that do not increase or decrease the percentage of Voting Power which Harris and its Affiliates are entitled to cast in respect of all Voting Securities beneficially owned by Harris or (iii) with the prior approval of a majority of the Class A Directors. From the second to the fourth anniversary of the Closing Date, Harris may not beneficially own Voting Securities which entitle Harris and its Affiliates to cast more than 80% of the Voting Power without the prior approval of a majority of the Class A Directors. From the second until the fourth anniversary of the Closing Date, Harris may not Transfer Voting Securities entitled to cast a majority of the Voting Power in a single transaction or series of related transactions if a single Person would acquire beneficial ownership of all of such Voting Securities or a portion of such Voting Securities that would entitle such Person to cast a majority of the Total Voting Power unless (i) such Transfer is approved in advance by a majority of the Class A Directors or (ii) such Person offers to acquire all the Voting Securities then owned by each other holder of Voting Securities at the same price and on the same terms and conditions as apply to the Transfer from Harris. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Section 4.1 shall prohibit or restrict any pro rata dividend or other pro rata distributions of Voting Securities to Harris' shareholders or any bona fide sale to the public of Voting Securities pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act or a bona fide registered public offering. For all purposes of this Agreement, Harris shall be deemed to beneficially own all Voting Securities beneficially owned by any of its Affiliates.
Standstill Provisions.
      4.2.      As long as Harris continues to beneficially own Voting Securities that entitle it to cast at least 20% of the Total Voting Power:
Access to Information, Audit and Inspection.
      (a) Harris and its Representatives shall have (and the Company shall cause its Subsidiaries to provide Harris and its Representatives with) full access at reasonable times and during normal business hours to all the books and records of the Company and its Subsidiaries and their respective businesses (including those books and records pertaining to periods prior to the Closing Date), including the right to
Table of Contents
examine and audit any of such books and records and to make copies and extracts therefrom. Harris shall bear all expenses incurred by it or its Representatives in making any such examination or audit and will reimburse the Company for all reasonable -pocket expenses incurred by it or its Subsidiaries in connection therewith. The Company shall, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to, make arrangements for Harris and its Representatives to have prompt access at reasonable times and during normal business hours to its officers, directors and employees to discuss the business and affairs of the Company and its Subsidiaries and the books and records pertaining thereto. The provisions of this Section 4.2(a) shall continue to apply to the Company and its Subsidiaries and be enforceable by Harris after Harris ceases to beneficially own any Voting Securities of the Company or Voting Securities of the Company that entitle it to cast at least 20% of the Voting Power, but only to the extent, in each case, that such books and records and such access to officers, directors and other employees are reasonably requested by Harris in connection with any pending or threatened Litigation, proceeding or investigation involving Harris or any of its Affiliates insofar as such matter relates to the business or affairs of the Company or such Subsidiary (including any matters relating to the business and affairs of any predecessor businesses, including relating to periods prior to the Closing Date).
out-of
      (b) The Company shall provide Harris with copies of each completed tax return required to be filed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries by applicable Law (each, a "") at least 20 Business Days prior to the due date (including any extensions of such due date) of the filing of such Tax Return, and Harris may review such Tax Return prior to its filing with the appropriate Government Entity. The Company shall consult with Harris and negotiate in good faith to resolve any issues arising as a result of the Harris' review of such Tax Return. Harris, the Company and its Subsidiaries shall use all reasonable good faith efforts to resolve any issue in dispute as promptly as possible, but in any event prior to the due date for the filing of such Tax Return. In the event an issue resulting from the review by Harris of such Tax Return remains in dispute as of the due date for the filing of such Tax Return, the Tax Return shall be filed with the appropriate Government Entity in accordance with the recommendation of the Company's external tax advisors.
Tax Return
      4.3.      Harris will not, and will not permit any of its Affiliates to, directly or indirectly, enter into any transaction or series of related transactions (including any Transfer of any assets or the provision of any goods or services) with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (each, an ) unless (i) such Affiliate Transaction is on Arm's Length Terms and (ii) if the Affiliate Transaction has a Fair Market Value of more than $5 million, such Affiliate Transaction shall have been approved in advance by a majority of the Class A Directors. The foregoing shall not apply to:
Related Party Transactions.
"Affiliate Transaction"
      4.4.      (a) Nothing in this Section 4.4 will impair the Company's ability to enter into contractual arrangements with a shareholder of the Company which restrict the shareholder from engaging in activities otherwise allowed by this Section and the following provisions shall be subject to the terms of any such contractual arrangements.
Freedom of Action.
      (b) Except as expressly provided in the Non-Competition Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, among the Company, Harris and Stratex (the "") or the proviso at the end of Section 4.4(c), Harris and its Affiliates shall have the right to, and none of them shall have any
Non-Competition Agreement
Table of Contents
fiduciary duty or other obligation to the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or any of their shareholders not to, take any of the following actions:
      (c) Neither Harris nor any of its Affiliates nor any officer, director, employee or former employee of Harris or any of its Affiliates that is not currently an employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (including any Class B Directors) shall have any obligation, or be liable, to the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or any of their shareholders for or arising out of the conduct described in Section 4.4(b) or the exercise of Harris' rights under any of the Agreements and none of them shall be deemed to have acted (i) in bad faith, (ii) in a manner inconsistent with the best interests of the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or any of their shareholders or (iii) in a manner inconsistent with, or opposed to, any fiduciary duty owed by them to the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or any of their shareholders by reason of any such conduct or exercise of such rights or any of their participation therein. If Harris or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their directors, officers or employees, including any such individuals who are also directors, officers or employees of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, (collectively, the "") acquires knowledge of a potential opportunity, transaction or matter which may be a corporate opportunity for both Harris or any of its Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, on the other hand, (each, a ""), then each of the Harris Entities shall have the right to, and none of them shall have any fiduciary duty or other obligation not to, pursue such Corporate Opportunity for itself or to direct such Corporate Opportunity to any of its Affiliates or to any third party and none of the Harris Entities (i) shall have any duty to communicate, offer or present such Corporate Opportunity to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, directors, officers or employees, (ii) shall have any liability to the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or any of their shareholders for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty, as a shareholder, director, officer or employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or otherwise, (iii) shall be deemed to have acted (x) in bad faith, (y) in a manner inconsistent with the best interests of the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or any of their shareholders or (z) in a manner inconsistent with, or opposed to, any fiduciary duty owed by them to the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or any of their shareholders, in each case by reason of the fact that any Harris Entity pursues or acquires such Corporate Opportunity for itself, directs such Corporate Opportunity to any of its Affiliates or any third party, or does not communicate information regarding such Corporate Opportunity to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, directors, officers or employees; , that notwithstanding anything in this Section 4.4 to the contrary a Corporate Opportunity offered to a person who is a director or officer of both the Company and Harris shall belong to the Company if such Corporate Opportunity is expressly offered to such person in writing solely in his or her capacity as a director or officer of the Company.
Harris Entities
Corporate Opportunity
provided, however
      (d) The provisions of this Section 4.4 shall be effective to the maximum extent permitted by Law and are not intended to be enforceable to any further extent.
      4.5.      (a) If the Company proposes to issue (a "") any capital stock of the Company or any securities convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, such capital stock (collectively, the "") at any time when the holders of all the outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock (assuming that all the outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock which are then exchangeable for Class B Common Stock have been so exchanged) are collectively entitled to cast a
Preemptive Right.
Proposed Issuance
Offered Securities
Table of Contents
majority of the Total Voting Power, the Company shall give written notice of the Proposed Issuance to the holders of Class B Common Stock (the "") at least 30 days prior to such issuance. Such notice shall describe all the material terms and conditions of such Proposed Issuance. Each holder of Class B Common Stock shall have the right to acquire at the same price and on the same terms and conditions, an additional amount of the Offered Securities so that the percentage of the outstanding Common Stock and Total Voting Power then owned by such holder shall not change as a result of such acquisition and Proposed Issuance; provided, however, that notwithstanding the foregoing (i) such holder may elect to acquire a lesser number of additional Offered Securities as it may determine in its sole discretion and (ii) if the Offered Securities are, or are convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for, Class A Common Stock, then in lieu thereof such holder shall be entitled to purchase Class B Common Stock or Offered Securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for Class B Common Stock, as applicable. If any holder of Class B Common Stock fails to accept such offer by written notice received by the Company within fifteen (15) days following the date on which such holder received the Offer Notice, the Proposed Issuance may be consummated free and clear of the preemptive right granted to the holders of Class B Common Stock under this Section 4.5. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the purchase price for any Proposed Issuance is to be paid in whole or in part other than in cash, then the holders of Class B Common Stock may pay the purchase price in cash in an amount per Offered Security equal to the fair market value of the aggregate non-cash consideration so payable, as reasonably determined in good faith by the Board, divided by the total number of Offered Securities to be issued without giving effect to the preemptive right granted by this Section 4.5.
Offer Notice
      (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the preemptive right granted by this Section 4.5 shall not apply to any Proposed Issuance pursuant to any stock option, restricted stock or employee benefit plan of the Company; , at the end of each month the Company shall give the holders of Class B Common Stock written notice of all such Proposed Issuances during such month (the "") and each holder of Class B Common Stock shall have the right, exercisable by delivering written notice to the Company (each, a "") within fifteen days after the date on which such holder received the Monthly Offer Notice, to purchase for cash a sufficient number of shares of Class B Common Stock so that the percentage of the outstanding Common Stock and Total Voting Power then owned by such holder shall not change as a result of such acquisition and Proposed Issuances; , that such holder may elect to acquire a lesser number of such shares of Class B Common Stock as it may determine it its sole discretion. The per share purchase price for any purchase of Class B Common Stock pursuant to a Monthly Exercise Notice shall be (i) if the Class A Common Stock is then listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on an automated inter-dealer quotation system, the closing price of the Class A Common Stock on the trading day immediately preceding the date on which the Company received the Monthly Exercise Notice or (ii) in all other cases, the fair market value of one share of Class A Common Stock as determined in good faith by the Board.
provided, however
Monthly Offer Notice
Monthly Exercise Notice
provided, however
      4.6.      (a) The Company agrees to comply with the requirements of all of the following paragraphs of this Section 4.6 other than paragraph (m) at all times when Harris is required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("") to consolidate the Company or any of its Subsidiaries. The Company agrees to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (d), (e), (f), (j), (m) and (n) of this Section 4.6 at all time when Harris is required by GAAP to account for its investment in the Company or any of its Subsidiaries under the equity method of accounting.
Covenants Relating to Financial, Accounting and Disclosure Matters.
GAAP
      (b)  The Company will (and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to) maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule  under the Exchange Act or any similar or successor rule applicable to Harris. The Company shall cause each of its principal executive and principal financial officers to (i) sign and deliver certifications to its periodic reports and shall include the certifications in its periodic reports, as and when required pursuant to Exchange Act Rule  and Item 601 of Regulation  or any similar or successor rule applicable to Harris and (ii) sign and deliver to Harris such certification and representation documents, and to participate in discussions of related matters, with respect to Harris' periodic reports
Disclosure and Internal Controls.
13a-15
13a-14
S-K
Table of Contents
under the Exchange Act as Harris may reasonably request. The Company shall cause its management to evaluate its disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting (including any change in internal control over financial reporting) as and when required pursuant to Exchange Act Rule  or any similar or successor rule applicable to Harris. The Company shall disclose in its periodic reports filed with the SEC information concerning its management's responsibilities for and evaluation of its disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting (including the annual management report and attestation report of its independent auditors relating to internal control over financial reporting) as and when required under Items 307 and 308 of Regulation  and other applicable SEC rules. Without limiting the general application of the foregoing, the Company shall (and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to) maintain internal systems and procedures which provide reasonable assurance that (i) its financial statements are reliable and timely prepared in accordance with GAAP and applicable Law, (ii) all transactions of the Company and its Subsidiaries are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of their respective financial statements, (iii) the receipts and expenditures of the Company and its Subsidiaries are authorized at the appropriate internal level, and (iv) unauthorized use or disposition of the assets of any the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that could have material effect on their financial statements is prevented or detected in a timely manner. The Company shall report in reasonable detail to Harris any of the following events or circumstances promptly after any executive officer of the Company or any Director becomes aware of such matter: (i) any significant deficiency or material weakness in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting that is reasonably likely to adversely affect the Company's or any of its Subsidiaries ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information, (ii) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the internal control over financial reporting of the Company and its Subsidiaries, (iii) any illegal act within the meaning of Section 10A(b) and (f) of the Exchange Act, and (iv) any report of a material violation of Law that an attorney representing the Company or any of its Subsidiaries has formally made to any officers or directors of the Company pursuant to the SEC's attorney conduct rules (17 C.F.R. Part 205).
13a-15
S-K
      (c)      The Company shall (and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to) maintain the same fiscal year, fiscal quarter and fiscal monthly accounting periods as Harris as they may change from time to time.
Fiscal Year, Fiscal Quarter and Fiscal Monthly Accounting Periods.
      (d)      The Company shall cooperate with Harris and use its commercially reasonable efforts to deliver to Harris consolidated quarterly and annual financial statements of the Company by such dates as Harris shall reasonably determine in order to give Harris reasonable time to review and include such information in its Quarterly Report on Form  or Annual Report on Form  as applicable. The Company hereby acknowledges that Harris' internal policies and procedures will impose certain requirements on its divisions and subsidiaries with respect to the type and format of financial information provided to Harris' management at the end of each fiscal quarter and fiscal year end and that Harris currently requires such information to be so provided no later than the eighth (8th) Business Day following the end of each fiscal quarter and fiscal year end. The Company acknowledges that Harris is a Large Accelerated Filer (as such term is defined in Rule  under the Exchange Act) and is required to file its Quarterly Reports on Form  and Annual Reports on Form  with the SEC on an accelerated basis and must make file such reports with the SEC before the Company is currently required to file its Quarterly Reports on Form  or Annual Reports on Form  or may be required to file such reports in the future. Senior employees of the Company and Harris with responsibility for preparation and review of SEC filings will actively consult with each other regarding the details of the Quarterly Reports on Form  and Annual Reports on Form  to be filed by the Company and in particular review any changes (whether or not substantive) that the Company is considering or plans to make to the most recent draft provided to Harris before such documents are filed with the SEC.
Quarterly and Annual Information.
10-Q
10-K,
12b-2
10-Q
10-K
10-Q
10-K
10-Q
10-K
      (e)      Each of the Company and each of its Subsidiaries which files any information with the SEC (each, a "") shall promptly deliver to Harris: preliminary and substantially final drafts, as soon as the same are prepared, of (i) all reports, notices and proxy and information statements to be sent or made available by such Filing Party to its security holders, (ii) all
Other SEC Filings.
Filing Party
Table of Contents
regular, periodic and other reports (other than those on Form  or Form  to be filed or furnished by such Filing Party under Sections 13, 14 and 15 of the Exchange Act, and (iii) all registration statements and prospectuses to be filed by such Filing Party with the SEC or any securities exchange pursuant to the listed company manual (or similar requirements) of such exchange. Thereafter, senior employees of the Company and Harris with responsibility for preparation and review of SEC filings will actively consult with each other regarding any changes (whether or not substantive) that the Company may consider making to such documents before they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.
10-K
10-Q)
      (f)      Senior employees from the Company and Harris with responsibility for such matters shall consult with each other as to the timing of their annual and quarterly earnings releases and any interim financial guidance for a current or future period and the Company shall give Harris the opportunity to review and comment on the information contained in such releases or guidance. The Company shall make reasonable efforts to issue its respective annual and quarterly earnings releases at approximately the same time on the same date as Harris. No later than eight hours prior to the time and date (or, if the same will be published before noon, no later than 5 p.m. Melbourne, Florida time on the previous Business Day) on which the Company intends to publish its regular annual or quarterly earnings release, any financial guidance for a current or future period or any other matters that could be reasonably likely to have a material financial impact on the earnings, results of operations, financial condition or prospects of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to deliver to Harris copies of substantially final drafts of all press releases and other statements relating thereto which will be made available by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to employees or public and senior employees with responsibility for such maters shall consult regarding any changes (other than typographical or other similar minor changes) to such substantially final drafts. Immediately following the issuance thereof, the Company shall deliver to Harris copies of final versions of all such press releases and other public statements.
Earnings Releases and Financial Guidance.
      (g)      The Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to cooperate and to cause its auditors to cooperate with Harris to the extent reasonably requested by Harris in the preparation of Harris public earnings or other press releases, Quarterly Reports on Form  Annual Reports to Shareholders, Annual Reports on Form  Current Reports on Form  and any other proxy, information and registration statements, reports, notices, prospectuses and any other filings made by Harris with the SEC or any national securities exchange or otherwise made publicly available by or on behalf of Harris (collectively, the "") and Harris shall reimburse the Company for all reasonable -pocket expenses incurred by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in connection therewith. The Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to provide to Harris all information Harris reasonably requests in connection with any Harris Public Filings or that, in the reasonable judgment of legal advisors to Harris, is required to be disclosed or incorporated by reference therein under applicable Law. The Company shall provide such information in a timely manner on the dates requested by Harris (which may be earlier than the dates on which the Company otherwise would be required hereunder to have such information available) to enable Harris to prepare, print and release all Harris Public Filings on such dates as Harris shall reasonably determine but in no event later than as required by applicable Law. The Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Company Auditors to consent to any reference to them as experts in any Harris Public Filings if required under applicable Law. If and to the extent requested by Harris, the Company shall diligently and promptly review all drafts of such Harris Public Filings and prepare in a diligent and timely fashion any portion of such Harris Public Filing pertaining to the Company. Prior to any printing or public release of any Harris Public Filing, an appropriate executive officer of the Company shall, if requested by Harris, certify that the information relating to the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or any of their businesses in such Harris Public Filing is accurate, true, complete and correct in all material respects. Unless required by Law, the Company shall not publicly release any financial or other information that conflicts with the information with respect to the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective businesses that is included in any Harris Public Filing without Harris' prior written consent. Prior to the release or filing thereof, Harris shall provide the Company with a draft of any portion of a Harris Public Filing containing information relating
Harris Public Filings.
10-Q,
10-K,
8-K
Harris Public Filings
out-of
Table of Contents
to the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or any of their businesses and shall give the Company an opportunity to review such information and comment thereon.
      (h)      Nothing in Section 4.6(d), Section 4.6(e), Section 4.6(f) or Section 4.6(n) shall prevent or otherwise limit the ability of the Company to make any disclosure which the Company reasonably believes is necessary to comply with applicable Law, including any changes to drafts previously furnished to Harris. Nothing in Section 4.6(d), Section 4.6(e), Section 4.6(f) or Section 4.6(n) shall prevent or otherwise limit the ability of Harris to make any disclosure which Harris reasonably believes is necessary to comply with applicable Law, including any changes to drafts previously furnished to the Company.
Company Disclosures.
      (i)      All information to be provided to Harris by, or with respect to, the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or controlled Affiliates pursuant to this Agreement shall be consistent in terms of format, detail and otherwise with the accounting principles, policies and practices of Harris, with such changes therein as may be requested by Harris from time to time consistent with changes in such accounting principles, policies and practices. Subject to the foregoing, the Company shall give Harris as much prior notice as reasonably practicable of any proposed determination of, or any significant changes in, the Company's accounting estimates or accounting principles. Senior employees of Harris and the Company with responsibility for accounting and financial reporting shall consult with each other (and their respective auditors, if requested) with respect to any such proposed determination or change. Unless otherwise required by applicable Law, the Company shall not make any such determination or changes without the prior written consent of Harris if such a determination or change would be sufficiently material to be required to be disclosed in financial statements or other disclosure documents filed by the Company or Harris with the SEC.
Consistency of Accounting Principles, Policies and Practices.
      (j)      Ernst & Young shall initially serve as the independent certified public accountants of the Company and its Subsidiaries (the ""). The Company shall thereafter maintain as the Company Auditors the same firm (and its affiliated firms) as Harris appoints to act as the independent certified public accountants for Harris and its Subsidiaries, unless and until the audit committee of the Company determines in good faith that it is required by Law or that it is in the best interest of the stockholders of the Company to appoint a different independent certified public accountant for the Company than that appointed by Harris for Harris and its Subsidiaries. The Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to enable the Company Auditors to complete their audit such that they may date their opinion on the audited financial statements of the Company (the "") on the same date that Harris' independent certified public accountants (the "") date their opinion on the audited annual financial statements of Harris (the "") and to enable Harris to meet its timetable for the printing, filing and public dissemination of the Harris Annual Statements, all in accordance with this Agreement and as required by applicable Law. The Company shall request that the Company Auditors date their opinion on the Annual Financial Statements on the same date that the Harris Auditors date their opinion on the Harris Annual Statements. The Company shall provide to Harris on a timely basis all information Harris reasonably requires to meet its schedule for the preparation, printing, filing and public dissemination of the Harris Annual Statements in accordance with this Agreement and as required by applicable Law. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company shall provide all required financial information with respect to the Company and its Subsidiaries to the Company Auditors in a sufficient and reasonable time and in sufficient detail to permit the Company Auditors to take all steps and perform all reviews necessary to provide sufficient assistance to Harris Auditors with respect to information to be included or contained in the Harris Annual Statements. The Company shall authorize the Company Auditors to make available to the Harris Auditors both the personnel who performed, or are performing, the annual audit of the Company and work papers related to the annual audit of the Company, in all cases within a reasonable time prior to the opinion date for the Company Auditors, so that the Harris Auditors are able to perform the procedures they consider necessary to take responsibility for the work of the Company Auditors as it relates to the report of the Harris Auditors on the Harris financial statements, all within sufficient time to enable Harris to meet its timetable for the printing, filing and public dissemination of the Harris Annual Statements.
Auditors.
Company Auditors
Annual Financial Statements
Harris Auditors
Harris Annual Statements
Table of Contents
      (k)  If Harris determines in good faith that there may be an inaccuracy in any financial statements of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any deficiency in the internal accounting controls or operations of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that could materially impact Harris' financial statements, then upon request the Company shall provide to Harris' internal auditors access to the books and records of Harris and its Subsidiaries so that Harris may conduct reasonable audits relating to the financial statements provided by the Company under this Agreement as well as to the internal accounting controls and operations of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries. Harris shall be responsible for the fees and expense of its internal auditors in connection with such audits but shall not be required to reimburse the Company for any expenses incurred by the Company and its Subsidiaries in connection therewith.
Inaccuracies.
      (l)  The Company shall provide to Harris on a timely basis all information Harris reasonably requires to meet its schedule for the preparation, printing, filing and public dissemination of the Harris Annual Statements in accordance with this Agreement and as required by applicable Law, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company shall provide all required financial information with respect to the Company and its Subsidiaries to the Company Auditors in a sufficient and reasonable time and in sufficient detail to permit the Company Auditors to take all steps and perform all reviews necessary to provide sufficient assistance to Harris Auditors with respect to information to be included or contained in the Harris Annual Statements.
Information for Equity Accounting Periods.
      (m)  The Company shall provide to Harris certifications from appropriate employees of the Company, at the times and in form and substance reasonably requested by Harris, to provide backup support for any certifications by any officers of Harris which are required to be included as part of, or as an exhibit to, any report filed by Harris under the Exchange Act pursuant to Rule  under the Exchange Act, Item 601 of Regulation  or any successor or additional rule or regulation; that such employees need only provide such certifications to the extent they believe they accurately characterize the matters described therein.
Certifications.
13a-14
S-K
provided, however,
      (n)  Each party recognizes that information shared pursuant to this Article IV may constitute material nonpublic inside information, and will use commercially reasonable efforts (i) to treat such material nonpublic information as confidential, (ii) in the case of Stratex only, not to disclose it to any Person who is not an employee or director of such party or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their advisers who need to know such information for purposes of carrying out the provisions of this Section 4.6. and (iii) in the case of Harris only, not to disclose it to any Person who is not an employee or director of such party or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their advisers who need to know such information for purposes of advising Harris with respect to its investment in the Company or carrying out the provisions of this Section 4.6.
Nonpublic Information.
      4.7.      If and to the extent the Company shall determine to use the proceeds from the exercise of any options to acquire Common Stock to repurchase shares of Class A Common Stock in the market at the then prevailing market price, at the request of Harris or otherwise, such determination or repurchase shall not be deemed to be an Affiliate Transaction or a breach by Harris or any Class B Director of any duty or obligation they may have to the Company or its stockholders.
Option Exercise.
      5.1.      This Agreement shall terminate at the first time at which the Total Voting Power of Voting Securities owned by Harris, its Affiliates and their respective Nominees collectively represent less than 10% of the Total Voting Power.
Termination.
      5.2.      The
Governing Law and Venue; Waiver Of Jury Trial.
(a) THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE MADE IN AND IN ALL RESPECTS SHALL BE INTERPRETED, CONSTRUED AND GOVERNED BY AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF.
Table of Contents
parties hereby irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of Delaware and the Federal courts of the United States of America located in the State of Delaware (collectively, the "") solely in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and of the documents referred to in this Agreement, and in respect of the transactions contemplated hereby, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense in any action, suit or proceeding for the interpretation or enforcement hereof or of any such document, that it is not subject thereto or that such action, suit or proceeding may not be brought or is not maintainable in any Delaware Court or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate or that this Agreement or any such document may not be enforced in or by such courts, and the parties hereto irrevocably agree that all claims with respect to such action or proceeding shall be heard and determined in any Delaware Court; , that notwithstanding the foregoing each party agrees that any claim which primarily seeks injunctive relief and related monetary claims that cannot be brought in any Delaware Court for jurisdiction reasons may be commenced, heard and determined in any other court having proper jurisdiction over such claim. The parties hereby consent to and grant any Delaware Court jurisdiction over the person of such parties and, to the extent permitted by law, over the subject matter of such dispute and agree that mailing of process or other papers in connection with any such action or proceeding in the manner provided in or in such other manner as may be permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service thereof.
Delaware Courts
provided, however
Section 5.7
      (b) EACH PARTY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT ANY CONTROVERSY WHICH MAY ARISE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT IS LIKELY TO INVOLVE COMPLICATED AND DIFFICULT ISSUES, AND THEREFORE EACH SUCH PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT SUCH PARTY MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT. EACH PARTY CERTIFIES AND ACKNOWLEDGES THAT (I) NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER, (II) EACH PARTY UNDERSTANDS AND HAS CONSIDERED THE IMPLICATIONS OF THIS WAIVER, (III) EACH PARTY MAKES THIS WAIVER VOLUNTARILY, AND (IV) EACH PARTY HAS BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS
SECTION 5.2.
      5.3.      If any provision of this Agreement shall be held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, that provision will be enforced to the maximum extent permissible so as to effect the intent of the parties, and the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. If necessary to effect the intent of the parties, the parties will negotiate in good faith to amend this Agreement to replace the unenforceable language with enforceable language which as closely as possible reflects such intent.
Severability.
      5.4.      This Agreement may be amended or any performance, term or condition waived in whole or in part only by a writing signed by persons authorized to so bind each party (in the case of an amendment) or the waiving party (in the case of a waiver). Any such amendment or waiver by the Company shall require the prior approval of a majority of the Class A Directors. No failure or delay by any party to take any action with respect to a breach by another party of this Agreement or a default by another party hereunder shall constitute a waiver of the former party's right to enforce any provision of this Agreement or to take action with respect to such breach or default or any subsequent breach or default. Waiver by any party of any breach or failure to comply with any provision of this Agreement by another party shall not be construed as, or constitute, a continuing wavier of such provisions, or a waiver of any other breach of or failure to comply with any other provisions of this Agreement.
Amendment; Waiver.
      5.5.      Harris shall be entitled to assign all of its rights and obligations under this Agreement to any Person to whom it transfers all of the ownership interests in the Company then owned by Harris and its Affiliates if such Person delivers a written undertaking to the Company in which such Person expressly assumes all of Harris' obligations under this Agreement, and from and after such a
Assignment.
Table of Contents
transfer all references herein to Harris shall be deemed to be references to such Person. Except as provided in the immediately preceding sentence, no party may assign this Agreement or any rights, benefits, obligations or remedies hereunder without the prior written consent of the other party hereto, except that no such consent shall be required for a transfer by operation of Law in connection with a merger or consolidation of such party. Any attempt so to assign or to delegate any of the foregoing without such consent shall be void and of no effect. This Agreement shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by and against the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns. All certificates representing shares subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall bear an appropriate legend with respect thereto.
      5.6.      This Agreement is intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns. Nothing contained in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any other Person any legal or equitable right, remedy, or claim under or in respect to this Agreement or any provision herein contained.
No Third-Party Beneficiaries.
      5.7.      Any notice, request, instruction or other document to be given hereunder by any party to the others shall be in writing and delivered personally or sent by registered or certified mail or by overnight courier, postage prepaid, or by facsimile:
Notices.
or to such other Persons or addresses as may be designated in writing by the party to receive such notice as provided above. Any notice, request, instruction or other document given as provided above shall be deemed given to the receiving party upon actual receipt, if delivered personally; three Business Days after deposit in the mail, if sent by registered or certified mail; upon confirmation of successful transmission if sent by facsimile (provided that if given by facsimile such notice, request, instruction or other document shall be followed up within one Business Day by dispatch pursuant to one of the other methods described
Table of Contents
herein); or on the next Business Day after deposit with a nationally recognized overnight courier, if sent by a nationally recognized overnight courier.
      5.8.      This Agreement, the Non-Competition Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between Harris and the Company and, solely with respect to the defined terms therein which are incorporated by reference herein, the Formation Agreement between Harris and Stratex constitute the entire and only agreements between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and thereof and any and all prior arrangements, representations, promises, understandings and conditions in connection with said matters and any representations, promises or conditions not expressly incorporated herein or therein or expressly made a part hereof or thereof shall not be binding upon any party.
Entire Agreement.
      5.9.      Each of Harris and the Company hereby acknowledges and agrees that (a) it will not challenge the validity of any provision of Articles III or IV hereof in any Litigation or any other proceeding and (b) because any breach of the provisions of Articles III or IV would cause irreparable harm and significant injury that would be difficult to ascertain and would not be adequately compensable by damages alone, each party will have the right to enforce such provisions by injunction, specific performance or other equitable relief without prejudice to any other rights and remedies the enforcing party may have. The reference to specific Articles in this Section is not a waiver of any party's rights to seek equitable relief for breaches of other Articles or Sections.
No Challenges; Specific Performance.
      5.10.      The headings in this Agreement are included for convenience of reference only and shall not in any way limit or otherwise affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Headings.
      5.11.      This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which, taken together, shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
      5.12.      Nothing herein contained shall constitute the parties hereto members of any partnership, joint venture, association, syndicate, or other entity, or be deemed to confer on any of them any express, implied, or apparent authority to incur any obligation or liability on behalf of another party, except as otherwise expressly provided in any Agreement.
Relationship of Parties.
      5.13.      This Agreement has been negotiated by the parties and their respective counsel in good faith and will be fairly interpreted in accordance with its terms and without any strict construction in favor of or against any party. Time shall be of the essence of this Agreement.
Construction.
      5.14.      This Agreement shall become effective only when one or more counterparts shall have been signed by each party and delivered to each other party
Effectiveness.
      5.15.      Harris agrees that a majority of the Class A Directors shall have the sole and exclusive right to direct the exercise and enforcement of all rights of the Company hereunder.
Enforcement by the Company.
Table of Contents
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the date first above written.
Table of Contents
Exhibit A

 
EXHIBIT 10.2
Dated: January 26, 2007
 
      NON-COMPETITION AGREEMENT, dated as of January 26, 2007 (this ""), among HARRIS CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (""), STRATEX NETWORKS, INC., a Delaware corporation (""), and HARRIS STRATEX NETWORKS, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "").
Agreement
Harris
Stratex
Company
      WHEREAS, Harris, Stratex, the Company and Stratex Merger Corp., a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of the Company have entered into an Amended and Restated Formation, Contribution and Merger Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2006, as amended by that certain letter agreement, dated January 26, 2007 (the ""), among the parties thereto pursuant to which the Company was formed to acquire Stratex pursuant to the Merger and to receive the Contributed Assets from Harris in the Contribution Transaction, in each case on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Formation Agreement;
Formation Agreement
      WHEREAS, because of the importance of preserving the value of the business being contributed by Harris as a going concern, Stratex was not willing to enter into the Formation Agreement without the undertakings of Harris contained in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS, the execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to closing under the Formation Agreement.
      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual covenants in the Agreements, the parties agree as follows:
      1.  The term "" means the development, manufacture, distribution and sale of any microwave radio systems and related components, systems and services which are (i) competitive with the products listed in hereto, or (ii) which are substantially similar to such products in form, fit and function when used in terrestrial microwave -point communications networks that provide access and trunking of voice and data for telecommunications networks anywhere in the world. In addition, all capitalized terms used but not defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Formation Agreement; , that notwithstanding the foregoing neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed to be a Subsidiary or Affiliate of Harris or any of its other Subsidiaries or Affiliates for purposes of this Agreement.
Definitions.
Restricted Business
Schedule 1
point-to
provided, however
      2.  In consideration for the issuance to Harris of shares of the Company pursuant to the Formation Agreement and the performance by Stratex of its obligations under the Agreements (collectively, the ""), Harris agrees that, during the period commencing on the date of this Agreement and ending on the fifth anniversary of the date hereof, Harris will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to (a) engage, directly or indirectly, in the Restricted Business, (b) form any Person other than the Company and its Subsidiaries (a "") or change or extend the current business activities of any existing Covered Person for the purpose of engaging, directly or indirectly, in the Restricted Business or (c) invest, directly or indirectly, in any Covered Person engaged, directly or indirectly, in the Restricted Business in any material respect; , that notwithstanding the foregoing Harris and/or its Subsidiaries may (i) collectively own less than 20% of the total equity interests in any Covered Person engaged in the Restricted Business as long as none of the employees of Harris or any of its Subsidiaries is involved in the management of such Covered Person, (ii) participate as a passive investor with no management rights in any investment fund that holds an ownership interests in Covered Persons engaged in the Restricted Business which is managed by Persons that are not Affiliates of Harris (each, an "") (x) with any employee benefit or retirement plan funds and (y) with any other funds subject, in the case of this clause (y) only, to a maximum interest in such investment fund of 15% and (iii) acquire a Covered Person or business unit of a Covered Person engaged in the Restricted Business if (x) the Restricted Business contributed less than 20% of such Covered Person's or business unit's, as applicable, total revenues (based on its latest annual audited financial statements, if available) and (y) such Covered Person or Harris, as applicable, divests or ceases to conduct the Restricted Business within 18 months after the acquisition date. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the defined term "Restricted Business" shall not include, and the prohibition contained in this shall in no way prohibit Harris and/or its Subsidiaries from,
Non-Competition.
Non-Compete Consideration
Covered Person
provided, however
Unaffiliated Person
Section 2
 
(a) purchasing and reselling products produced by, and marked with the brands of, an Unaffiliated Person in connection with the sale, service, design or maintenance of a system that contains or uses microwave radios or related components, systems or services or (b) developing, manufacturing, distributing or selling microwave radios or related components, systems or services for use by Government Entities.
      3.  Each of the parties acknowledges that the Non-Compete Consideration is sufficient consideration for the duration and scope of the non-competition agreement contained herein and that such duration and scope are reasonable in all respects.
Sufficiency of Consideration.
      4.  If any provision of this Agreement, or any part thereof, is held by a court or other authority of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, the parties agree that the court or authority making such determination will have the power to reduce the duration or scope of such provision or to delete specific words or phrases as necessary (but only to the minimum extent necessary) to cause such provision or part to be valid and enforceable. If such court or authority does not have the legal authority to take the actions described in the preceding sentence, the parties agree to negotiate in good faith a modified provision that would, in so far as possible, reflect the original intent of this Agreement without violating applicable law.
Severability; Enforceability.
      5.  The parties hereto acknowledge and recognize that irreparable damage could result to the Company and its Subsidiaries, businesses and properties if Harris fails or refuses to perform its obligations under this Agreement and that no adequate remedy at law will exist for any breach by Harris of this Agreement. In addition to any other rights or remedies and damages available, the Company shall be entitled to appropriate injunctive relief, including preliminary and mandatory injunctive relief, enjoining or restraining Harris or any of its Subsidiaries from any violation or threatened violation of this Agreement.
Availability of Injunctive Relief.
      6. Governing Law and Venue; Waiver of Jury Trial. (a)  The parties hereby irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of Delaware and the Federal courts of the United States of America located in the State of Delaware (collectively, the "") solely in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense in any action, suit or proceeding for the interpretation or enforcement hereof or of any such document, that it is not subject thereto or that such action, suit or proceeding may not be brought or is not maintainable in any Delaware Court or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate or that this Agreement or any such document may not be enforced in or by such courts, and the parties hereto irrevocably agree that all claims with respect to such action or proceeding shall be heard and determined in any Delaware Court; , that notwithstanding the foregoing each party agrees that any claim which primarily seeks injunctive relief and related monetary claims that cannot be brought in any Delaware Court for jurisdiction reasons may be commenced, heard and determined in any other court having proper jurisdiction over such claim. The parties hereby consent to and grant any Delaware Court jurisdiction over the person of such parties and, to the extent permitted by law, over the subject matter of such dispute and agree that mailing of process or other papers in connection with any such action or proceeding in the manner provided in or in such other manner as may be permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service thereof.
THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE MADE IN AND IN ALL RESPECTS SHALL BE INTERPRETED, CONSTRUED AND GOVERNED BY AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF.
Delaware Courts
provided, however
Section 12
      (b) Each party acknowledges and agrees that any controversy which may arise under this Agreement is likely to involve complicated and difficult issues, and therefore each such party hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives any right such party may have to a trial by jury in respect of any litigation directly or indirectly arising out of or relating to this Agreement. Each party certifies and acknowledges that (i) no representative, agent or attorney of any other party has represented, expressly or otherwise, that such other party would not, in the event of litigation, seek to enforce the foregoing waiver, (ii) each party understands and has considered the implications of this waiver, (iii) each party makes this waiver voluntarily, and
 
(iv) each party has been induced to enter into this Agreement by, among other things, the mutual waivers and certifications in this .
Section 6
      7.  This Agreement may be amended or any performance, term or condition waived in whole or in part only by a writing signed by persons authorized to so bind each party (in the case of an amendment) or the waiving party (in the case of a waiver). No failure or delay by any party to take any action with respect to a breach by another party of this Agreement or a default by another party hereunder shall constitute a waiver of the former party's right to enforce any provision of this Agreement or to take action with respect to such breach or default or any subsequent breach or default. Waiver by any party of any breach or failure to comply with any provision of this Agreement by another party shall not be construed as, or constitute, a continuing wavier of such provisions, or a waiver of any other breach of or failure to comply with any other provisions of this Agreement.
Amendment; Waiver.
      8.  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement and understanding between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement.
      9.  This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement shall become effective when each party hereto shall have received a counterpart hereof signed by the other party hereto. Until and unless each party has received a counterpart hereof signed by the other party hereto, this Agreement shall have no effect and no party shall have any right or obligation hereunder (whether by virtue of any other oral or written agreement or other communication).
Counterparts.
      10.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon and enforceable against the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns. No party may assign, delegate or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of each other party hereto.
Successors in Interest; Assignment.
      11.  This Agreement is intended solely for the benefit of the parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns and shall not confer upon any other person any remedy, claim, liability, reimbursement or other right. The Agreement is not intended and shall not be construed to create any third party beneficiaries or to provide to any third parties with any remedy, claim, liability, reimbursement, cause of action or other right or privilege.
No Third-Party Beneficiaries.
      12.  Any notice, request, instruction or other document to be given hereunder by any party to the others shall be in writing and delivered personally or sent by registered or certified mail or by overnight courier, postage prepaid, or by facsimile:
Notices.
 
      or to such other Persons or addresses as may be designated in writing by the party to receive such notice as provided above. Any notice, request, instruction or other document given as provided above shall be deemed given to the receiving party upon actual receipt, if delivered personally; three Business Days after deposit in the mail, if sent by registered or certified mail; upon confirmation of successful transmission if sent by facsimile (provided that if given by facsimile such notice, request, instruction or other document shall be followed up within one Business Day by dispatch pursuant to one of the other methods described herein); or on the next Business Day after deposit with a nationally recognized overnight courier, if sent by a nationally recognized overnight courier.
      13.  In any action or proceeding related to or arising out of the enforcement of, or defense against, any provision of this Agreement, the non-prevailing party in such action or proceeding shall pay, and the prevailing party shall be entitled to, all reasonable -pocket costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) of the prevailing party incurred in connection with such action or proceeding.
Fees.
out-of
      14.  Harris agrees that a majority of the Class A Directors shall have the sole and exclusive right to direct the exercise and enforcement of all rights of the Company hereunder.
Enforcement by the Company.
 
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.

 
EXHIBIT 10.3
 
 
Dated: January 26, 2007
 
 
 
     REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT(the ""), dated as of January 26, 2007, between HARRIS CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (""), and HARRIS STRATEX NETWORKS, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "").
Agreement
Harris
Company
     WHEREAS, Harris, the Company, Stratex Networks, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), and Stratex Merger Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, have entered into an Amended and Restated Formation, Contribution and Merger Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2006 as amended by that certain letter agreement, dated January 26, 2007 (the ""), among the parties thereto, pursuant to which the Company was formed to acquire Stratex through the Merger and to receive the Contributed Assets from Harris in the Contribution Transaction, in each case on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Formation Agreement;
Stratex
Formation Agreement
     WHEREAS, in the Contribution Transaction, Harris will receive all of the outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock of the Company;
     WHEREAS, Harris was not willing to enter into the Formation Agreement without the undertakings of the Company contained in this Agreement and the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Company is a condition to closing under Formation Agreement;
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual covenants in the Agreements the parties agree as follows:
     1. . (a) All capitalized terms used but not defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Formation Agreement. In addition, the following terms shall be defined as follows:
Definitions
          "" shall have the meaning assigned to such term under Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
Affiliate
          "" means, with respect to any Registration Statement, the Registrable Securities identified in the Demand Notice or Piggyback Notice relating to such Registration Statement and any Registrable Securities which any other Holder is entitled to, and requests, be included is such registration statement within 20 days after receiving such notice.
Applicable Securities
          "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
          "" means, collectively, the shares of the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock of the Company.
Common Stock
          "" means a notice given by a Holder pursuant to .
Demand Notice
Section 2(a)
 
          "" means a registration under the Securities Act of an offer and sale of Registrable Securities effected pursuant to hereof.
Demand Registration
Section 2
          "" means a registration statement filed under the Securities Act by the Company pursuant to the provisions of hereof, including the Prospectus contained therein, any amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, and all exhibits and all material incorporated by reference in such registration statement.
Demand Registration Statement
Section 2
          "" means, with respect to any Registration Statement, the period during which such Registration Statement is effective.
Effectiveness Period
          "" means, with respect to any Registration Statement, the date on which the Commission declares such Registration Statement effective or on which such Registration Statement otherwise becomes effective under the Securities Act.
Effective Time
          "" means, with respect to any Registration, each Holder that is entitled and elects to sell Registrable Securities pursuant to such Registration and this Agreement.
Electing Holder
          "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
          "" means, at any time, a registered owner of any Registrable Securities or securities convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, Registrable Securities.
Holder
          "" means the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
NASD
          "" means the Rules of the NASD, as amended from time to time.
NASD Rules
          "" means any individual, corporation (including not-for-profit), general or limited partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, estate, trust, association, organization, Government Entity or other entity of any kind or nature.
Person
          "" means a registration under the Securities Act of an offer and sale of Registrable Securities effected pursuant to hereof.
Piggyback Demand Registration
Section 3
          "" means the prospectus (including, without limitation, any preliminary prospectus, any final prospectus and any prospectus that discloses information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective Registration Statement in reliance upon Rule 430A under the Act) included in a Registration Statement, as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Applicable Securities covered by a Registration Statement and by all other amendments and supplements to such prospectus, including all material incorporated by
Prospectus
 
reference in such prospectus and all documents filed after the date of such prospectus by the Company under the Exchange Act and incorporated by reference therein.
          "" means (a) any Common Stock or other securities acquired by Harris pursuant to any of the Agreements or otherwise from the Company, (b) any securities issued or distributed with respect to, or in exchange for, any such Common Stock or securities (whether directly or indirectly or in one or a series of transactions) pursuant to any reclassification, merger, consolidation, reorganization or other transaction or procedure and (c) any securities issued or distributed with respect to, or in exchange for, any securities described in clause (b) or this clause (c) (whether directly or indirectly or in one or a series of transactions) pursuant to any reclassification, merger, consolidation, reorganization or other transaction or procedure, other than, in the case of each of clauses (a), (b) and (c), any such securities that are Unrestricted Securities.
Registrable Securities
          "" means a Demand Registration or Piggyback Registration.
Registration
          "" means all expenses incident to the Company's performance of its obligations in respect of any Registration of Registrable Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including but not limited to all registration, filing and NASD fees, fees of any stock exchange upon which the Registrable Securities are listed, all fees and expenses of complying with securities or blue sky laws, all word processing, duplicating and printing expenses, messenger and delivery expenses, the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and of its independent public accountants, including the expenses of any special audits or "comfort" letters required by or incident to such performance and compliance, premiums and other costs of policies of insurance obtained by the Company against liabilities arising out of the public offering of Registrable Securities being registered and any fees and disbursements of underwriters customarily paid by issuers; , that notwithstanding the foregoing Registration Expenses shall not include any fees and disbursements of counsel retained by any Holders or any transfer taxes or underwriting discounts or commissions relating to the sale of the Registrable Securities.
Registration Expenses
provided, however
          "" means a registration statement filed by the Company with the Commission under the Securities Act pursuant to the provisions of or hereof, including the Prospectus contained therein, any amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, and all exhibits and all material incorporated by reference in such registration statement.
Registration Statement
Section 2
Section 3
          "" means the published rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as in effect at any relevant time.
Rules and Regulations
          "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
 
          "" means any Registrable Security that (a) has been offered and sold pursuant to a registration statement that has become effective under the Securities Act, (b) has been transferred in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto) under circumstances after which such Registrable Securities became freely transferable without registration under the Securities Act and any legend relating to transfer restrictions under the Securities Act has been removed or (c) is transferable pursuant to paragraph (k) of Rule 144 (or any successor provision thereto).
Unrestricted Security
     (b) The following terms shall have the meanings set forth in the Sections indicated:
     2. . (a) Each Holder shall have the right, subject to the terms of this Agreement, to require the Company to register for offer and sale under the Securities Act all or a portion of the Registrable Securities then owned by such Holder subject to the requirements and limitations in this . In order to exercise such right, the Holder (the "") must give written notice to the Company (a "") requesting that the Company register under the Securities Act the offer and sale of Registrable Securities (i)
Demand Registrations
Section 2
Demanding Holder
Demand Notice
 
having a market value on the date the Demand Notice is received (the "") of at least $50 million based on the then prevailing market price, (ii) representing at least 5% of the outstanding Common Stock (on a fully diluted basis) or (iii) representing all of the Registrable Securities then held by such Holder and its Affiliates. Upon receipt of the Demand Notice, the Company shall (i) promptly notify the other Holders of the receipt of such Demand Notice, (ii) prepare and file with the Commission as soon as practicable and in no event later than 90 days after the Demand Date a Demand Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the Applicable Securities on any available form requested by the Demanding Holder (which may include a "shelf" Registration Statement under Rule 415 promulgated under the Securities Act solely for use in connection with delayed underwritten offerings under Rule 415 promulgated under the Securities Act) and (iii) use reasonable efforts to cause such Demand Registration Statement to be declared effective under the Securities Act as promptly as practicable. The Company shall use reasonable efforts to have each Demand Registration Statement remain effective until the earlier of (i) two years (in the case of a shelf Demand Registration Statement) or 90 days (in the case of any other Demand Registration Statement) from the Effective Time of such Registration Statement and (ii) such time as all of the Applicable Securities have been disposed of by the Electing Holders.
Demand Date
     (b) The Company shall have the right to postpone (or, if necessary or advisable, withdraw) the filing, or to delay the effectiveness, of a Registration Statement or offers and sales of Applicable Securities registered under a shelf Demand Registration Statement if the board of directors of the Company determines in good faith that such Registration would interfere with any pending financing, acquisition, corporate reorganization or other corporate transaction involving the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or would otherwise be seriously detrimental to the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and furnishes to the Electing Holders a copy of a resolution of the board of directors of the Company setting forth such determination; , that the Company may postpone a Demand Registration or offers and sales of Applicable Securities under a shelf Demand Registration Statement no more than once in any 12 month period and that no single postponement shall exceed 90 days in the aggregate. The Company shall advise the Electing Holders of any such determination as promptly as practicable.
provided, however
     (c) Notwithstanding anything in this , the Company shall not be obligated to take any action under :
Section 2
this Section 2
     (d) The Company may include in any registration requested pursuant to hereof other securities for sale for its own account or for the account of another Person, subject to the following sentence. In connection with an underwritten offering, if the managing
Section 2(a)
 
underwriter advises the Company and the Electing Holders in writing that in its opinion the number of securities requested to be registered exceeds the maximum number which can be sold in such offering without materially adversely affecting the pricing, timing or likely success of the offering (with respect to any offering, the ""), the Company shall include such Maximum Number in such Registration as follows: (i) first, the Applicable Securities requested to be registered by the Demanding Holder, (ii) second, the Applicable Securities requested to be included by any other Electing Holders, if any, (iii) third, any securities proposed to be included by the Company and (iv) fourth, any other securities requested to be included in such Registration. For purposes of this Agreement, an "" shall be an offering pursuant to which securities are sold to a broker-dealer or other financial institution or group thereof for resale by them to investors.
Maximum Number
underwritten offering
     (e) The Demanding Holder shall have the right to withdraw its Demand Notice (in which case such Demand Notice shall be deemed never to have been given for purposes of ) (i) at any time prior to the time the Demand Registration Statement has been declared or becomes effective if the Demanding Holder reimburses the Company for the reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by it prior to such withdrawal in effecting such Registration, (ii) upon the issuance by the Commission or any court or other governmental agency or authority of a stop order, injunction or other order which prohibits or interferes with such Registration, (iii) if the conditions to closing specified in the purchase agreement or underwriting agreement entered into in connection with such registration are not satisfied other than as a result of default by the Demanding Holder, (iv) there has been a material adverse change in market conditions or in the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects since the date of such Demand Notice, or (v) if the Company exercises any of its rights under of this Agreement. If the Holders withdraw a Demand Notice pursuant to this and the Company nevertheless decides to continue with the Registration as to securities other than the Applicable Securities, then the Holders shall be entitled to participate in such Registration pursuant to hereof, but in such case the Intended Offering Notice must be given to the Holders at least 10 business days prior to the anticipated filing date of the Registration Statement and the Holders shall be required to give the Piggyback Notice no later than five business days after the Company's delivery of such Intended Offering Notice.
Section 2(a)
Section 2(b)
Section 2(e)
Section 3
     (f) If any Registration pursuant to this shall relate to an underwritten offering, the Demanding Holder shall select the managing underwriter or underwriters with the consent of the Company, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, and the right of any other Holder to participate therein shall be conditioned upon such Holder's participation in the underwriting agreements and arrangements required by this Agreement.
Section 2
     3. . (a) If at any time the Company intends to file on its behalf or on behalf of any holder of its securities a Registration Statement under the Securities Act in connection with a public offering of any securities of the Company (other than a registration statement on Form S-8 or Form S-4 or their successor forms), then the Company shall give written notice of such intention (an "") to each Holder at least
Piggyback Registrations
Intended Offering Notice
 
20 business days prior to the date such Registration Statement is filed. Such Intended Offering Notice shall offer to include in such Registration Statement for offer to the public the number or amount of Registrable Securities as each such Holder may request, subject to the conditions set forth herein, and shall specify, to the extent then known, the number and class of securities proposed to be registered, the proposed date of filing of such Registration Statement, any proposed means of distribution of such securities, any proposed managing underwriter or underwriters of such securities, together with a good faith estimate by the Company of the proposed maximum offering price of such securities. Any Holder that elects to have its Registrable Securities offered and sold pursuant to such Registration Statement shall so advise the Company in writing (such written notice from any such Holder being a "") not later than seven business days after the date on which such Holder received the Intended Offering Notice, setting forth the number of Registrable Securities that such Holder desires to have offered and sold pursuant to such Registration Statement. Upon the request of the Company, the Electing Holders shall enter into such underwriting, custody and other agreements as shall be customary in connection with registered secondary offerings or necessary or appropriate in connection with the offering. Each Holder shall be permitted to withdraw all or part of its Applicable Securities from any Registration pursuant to this at any time prior to the sale thereof (or, if applicable, the entry into a binding agreement for such sale). If any Registration pursuant to this shall relate to an underwritten offering, the right of any Holder to participate therein shall be conditioned upon such Holder's participation in the underwriting agreements and arrangements required by this Agreement.
Piggyback Notice
Section 3
Section 3
     (b) In connection with an underwritten offering, if the managing underwriter or underwriters advise the Company in writing that in its or their opinion the number of securities proposed to be registered exceeds the Maximum Number with respect to such offering, the Company shall include in such Registration such Maximum Number as follows: (i) first, the securities that the Company proposes to sell, (ii) second, the Applicable Securities requested to be included in such Registration among the Electing Holders thereof based on the respective amount of Applicable Securities owned by them and (iii) third, if any, securities held by other holders of securities of the Company who have requested that their securities be included in such Registration Statement and who hold contractual registration rights with respect to such securities.
pro rata
     (c) The rights of the Holders pursuant to hereof and this are cumulative, and the exercise of rights under one such Section shall not exclude the subsequent exercise of rights under the other such Section (except to the extent expressly provided otherwise herein). Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Company may abandon and/or withdraw any registration as to which rights under may exist (or have been exercised) at any time and for any reason without liability hereunder. In such event, the Company shall notify each Holder that has delivered a Piggyback Notice to participate therein. No Registration of Registrable Securities effected pursuant to a request under this shall be deemed to be, or shall relieve the Company of its obligation to effect, a Registration upon request under hereof. The Company may enter into other registration rights agreements;
Section 2
Section 3
Section 3
Section 3
Section 2
provided,
 
, that the rights and benefits of a holder of securities of the Company with respect to registration of such securities as contained in any such other agreement shall not be inconsistent with, or adversely affect, the rights and benefits of holders of Registrable Securities as contained in this Agreement.
however
     4. . In connection with a Registration Statement, the following provisions shall apply:
Registration Procedures
     (a) Each Electing Holder shall in a timely manner (i) deliver to the Company and its counsel a duly completed copy of any form of notice and questionnaire reasonably requested by the Company and (ii) provide the Company and its counsel with such other information as to itself as may be required by law for inclusion in the Registration Statement.
     (b) The Company shall furnish to each Electing Holder, prior to the Effective Time, a copy of the Registration Statement initially filed with the Commission, and shall furnish to such Electing Holders copies of each amendment thereto and each amendment or supplement, if any, to the Prospectus included therein.
     (c) The Company shall promptly take such action as may be reasonably necessary so that (i) each of the Registration Statement and any amendment thereto and the Prospectus forming part thereof and any amendment or supplement thereto (and each report or other document incorporated therein by reference in each case), when it becomes effective, complies in all material respects with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the respective rules and regulations thereunder, (ii) each of the Registration Statement and any amendment thereto does not, when it becomes effective, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (iii) each of the Prospectus forming part of the Registration Statement, and any amendment or supplement to such Prospectus, does not at any time during the period during which the Company is required to keep a Registration Statement continuously effective under (other than any period during which it is entitled and elects to postpone offers and sales under (each, a "")) include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Section 2(a)
Section 2(b)
Postponement Period
     (d) The Company shall, promptly upon learning thereof, advise each Electing Holder, and shall confirm such advice in writing if so requested by any such Electing Holder:
 
     (e) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance, and if issued to obtain the withdrawal, of any order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement at the earliest possible time.
     (f) The Company shall furnish to each Electing Holder, without charge, at least one copy of the Registration Statement and all post-effective amendments thereto, including financial statements and schedules, and, if such Electing Holder so requests in writing, all reports, other documents and exhibits that are filed with or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement.
     (g) The Company shall, during the period during which the Company is required to keep a Registration Statement continuously effective under or elects to keep effective under , deliver to each Electing Holder and any managing underwriter or agent, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus (including each preliminary Prospectus) included in the Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto and other documents as they may reasonably request to facilitate the distribution of the Registrable Securities; and the Company consents (except during the continuance of any event described in hereof) to the use of the Prospectus, with any amendment or supplement thereto, by each of the Electing Holders and any managing underwriter or agent in connection with the
Section 2(a)
Section 3(a)
Section 4(d)(v)
 
offering and sale of the Applicable Securities covered by the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto during such period.
     (h) Prior to any offering of Applicable Securities pursuant to the Registration Statement, the Company shall (i) use reasonable efforts to register or qualify or cooperate with the Electing Holders and their respective counsel in connection with the registration or qualification of such Applicable Securities for offer and sale under any applicable securities or "blue sky" laws of such jurisdictions within the United States as any Electing Holder may reasonably request, (ii) use reasonable efforts to keep such registrations or qualifications in effect and comply with such laws so as to permit the continuance of offers and sales in such jurisdictions for the period during which the Company is required to keep a Registration Statement continuously effective under or elects to keep effective under and (iii) take any and all other actions reasonably requested by an Electing Holder which are necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of such Applicable Securities; , that nothing contained in this shall require the Company to (A) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this or (B) take any action which would subject it to general service of process or taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not then so subject.
Section 2(a)
Section 3(a)
provided, however
Section 4(h)
Section 4(h)
     (i) The Company shall, if requested by the Electing Holders, use reasonable best efforts to cause all such Applicable Securities to be sold pursuant to the Registration Statement to be listed on any securities exchange or automated quotation service on which securities of the Company are listed or quoted.
     (j) The Company shall cooperate with the Electing Holders to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Applicable Securities to be sold pursuant to the Registration Statement, which certificates shall comply with the requirements of any securities exchange or automated quotation service on which any securities of the Company are listed and quoted, and which certificates shall be free of any restrictive legends and in such permitted denominations and registered in such names as Electing Holders or any managing underwriter or agent may request in connection with the sale of Applicable Securities pursuant to the Registration Statement.
     (k) Upon the occurrence of any fact or event contemplated by hereof, the Company shall promptly prepare a post-effective amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, or any document incorporated therein by reference, or file any other required document so that, after such amendment or supplement, such Registration Statement and Prospectus do not contain an untrue statement of a material fact and do not omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of the Prospectus, in light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading; , that the Company shall not be required to take any such action during a Postponement Period (but it shall promptly thereafter). In the event that the Company notifies the Electing Holders of the occurrence of any fact or event contemplated by
Section 4(d)(v)
provided, however
Section
 
hereof, each Electing Holder agrees, as a condition of the inclusion of any of such Electing Holder's Applicable Securities in the Registration Statement, to suspend the use of the Prospectus until the requisite changes to the Prospectus have been made.
4(d)(v)
     (l) The Company shall, together with all Electing Holders, enter into such customary agreements (including an underwriting agreement in customary form in the event of an underwritten offering) and take all other reasonable and appropriate action in order to expedite and facilitate the registration and disposition of the Registrable Securities, and in connection therewith, if an underwriting agreement is entered into, cause the same to contain indemnification provisions and procedures substantially similar to those set forth in hereof with respect to all parties to be indemnified pursuant to hereof. In addition, in such agreements, the Company will make such representations and warranties to the Electing Holder(s) and the underwriters or agents, if any, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers in primary equity offerings. The Electing Holder(s) shall be party to such agreements and may, at their option, require that any or all of the representations and warranties by, and the other agreements on the part of, the Company to and for the benefit of such underwriters shall also be made to and for the benefit of the Electing Holders and that any or all of the conditions precedent to the obligations of such underwriters under such underwriting agreement be conditions precedent to the obligations of the Electing Holders. No Electing Holder shall be required to make any representations or warranties to or agreements with the Company or the underwriters or agents other than representations, warranties or agreements relating to such Electing Holder, its Registrable Securities and its intended method of distribution or any other representations required by law.
Section 6
Section 6
     (m) If requested by the managing underwriter in any underwritten offering, the Company and each Holder (whether or not an Electing Holder) will agree to such limitations on sale, transfer, short sale, hedging, option, swap and other transactions as are then customary in underwriting agreements for registered underwritten offerings; , that such limitations shall not continue beyond the 180th day after the effective date of the Registration Statement in question or, if later, the commencement of the public distribution of securities to the extent timely notified in writing by the managing underwriters.
provided, however
     (n) The Company shall use best efforts to:
 
 
     (o) Not later than the effective date of the applicable Registration Statement, the Company shall provide a CUSIP number for all Registrable Securities and provide the applicable transfer agent with printed certificates for the Registrable Securities which are in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company.
     (p) The Company shall cooperate with each Electing Holder and each underwriter or agent participating in the disposition of such Registrable Securities and their respective counsel in connection with any filings required to be made with the NASD.
     (q) As promptly as practicable after filing with the Commission of any document which is incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, the Company shall provide copies of such document to counsel for each Electing Holder and to the managing underwriters and agents, if any.
     (r) The Company shall provide and cause to be maintained a transfer agent and registrar for all Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement from and after a date not later than the effective date of such Registration Statement.
     (s) The Company shall use reasonable best efforts to take all other steps necessary to effect the timely registration, offering and sale of the Applicable Securities covered by the Registration Statements contemplated hereby.
     5. . The Company shall bear all of the Registration Expenses and all other expenses incurred by it in connection with the performance of its obligations under this Agreement. The Electing Holders shall bear all other expenses relating to any Registration or sale in which such Electing Holders participate, including without limitation the fees and expenses of counsel to such Electing Holders and any applicable underwriting discounts or commissions.
Registration Expenses
     6. . (a) Upon the Registration of Applicable Securities pursuant to or hereof, the Company shall indemnify and hold harmless each Electing Holder and each underwriter, selling agent or other securities professional, if any, which facilitates the disposition of Applicable Securities, and each of their respective officers and directors and each person who controls such Electing Holder, underwriter, selling agent or other securities professional within the meaning of of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each such Person, an "") against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Indemnified Person may become subject under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon an untrue
Indemnification and Contribution
Section 2
Section 3
Section 15
Indemnified Person
 
statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement under which such Applicable Securities are to be registered under the Securities Act, or any Prospectus contained therein or furnished by the Company to any Indemnified Person, or any amendment or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and the Company hereby agrees to reimburse such Indemnified Person for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by them in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim as such expenses are incurred; , that the Company shall not be liable to any such Indemnified Person in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in such Registration Statement or Prospectus, or amendment or supplement, in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Indemnified Person or its agent expressly for use therein; and that the Company shall not be liable to the extent that any loss, claim, damage, liability (or action or proceeding in respect thereof) or expense arises out of or is based upon the use of any Prospectus after such time as the Company has advised the Electing Holder in writing that a post-effective amendment or supplement thereto is required, except such Prospectus as so amended or supplemented.
provided, however
provided, further,
     (b) Each Electing Holder agrees, as a consequence of the inclusion of any of such Holder's Applicable Securities in such Registration Statement, and shall cause each underwriter, selling agent or other securities professional, if any, which facilitates the disposition of Applicable Securities shall agree, as a consequence of facilitating such disposition of Applicable Securities, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors and officers and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of either Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which the Company or such other persons may become subject, under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in such Registration Statement or Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Holder, underwriter, selling agent or other securities professional, as applicable, expressly for use therein; , that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary the maximum aggregate amount that any Electing Holder shall be required to pay pursuant to this in respect of any Registration shall be the net proceeds received by such Electing Holder from sales of Registrable Securities pursuant to such Registration.
provided, however
Section 6
     (c) Promptly after receipt by any Person entitled to indemnity under or (b) hereof (an "") of any notice of the commencement of any action or claim, such
Section 6(a)
Indemnitee
 
Indemnitee shall, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against any other person under this (an ""), notify such Indemnitor in writing of the commencement thereof, but the omission so to notify the Indemnitor shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any Indemnitee except to the extent the Indemnitor is actually prejudiced thereby. In case any such action shall be brought against any Indemnitee and it shall notify an Indemnitor of the commencement thereof, such Indemnitor shall be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it shall wish, jointly with any other Indemnitor similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnitee (which shall not be counsel to the Indemnitor without the consent of the Indemnitee, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed). After notice from the Indemnitor to such Indemnitee of its election so to assume the defense thereof, such Indemnitor shall not be liable to such Indemnitee under this or otherwise for any legal expenses of other counsel or any other expenses, in each case subsequently incurred by such Indemnitee, in connection with the defense thereof (other than reasonable costs of investigation) unless the Indemnitee shall have been advised by counsel that representation of the Indemnitee by counsel provided by the Indemnitor would be inappropriate due to actual or potential conflicting interests between the Indemnitee and the Indemnitor, including situations in which there are one or more legal defenses available to the Indemnitee that are different from or additional to those available to Indemnitor; , that the Indemnitor shall not, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar actions arising out of the same general allegations, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate counsel at any time for all Indemnitees, except to the extent that local counsel, in addition to their regular counsel, is required in order to effectively defend against such action. No Indemnitor shall, without the written consent of the Indemnitee, effect the settlement or compromise of, or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to, any pending or threatened action or claim in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the Indemnitee is an actual or potential party to such action or claim) unless such settlement, compromise or judgment (i) includes an unconditional release of the Indemnitee from all liability arising out of such action or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any Indemnitee. No indemnification shall be available in respect of any settlement of any action or claim effected by an Indemnitee without the prior written consent of the Indemnitor, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
Section 6
Indemnitor
Section 6
provided, however
     (d) If the indemnification provided for in this is unavailable or insufficient to hold harmless an Indemnitee under or hereof in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) referred to therein, then each Indemnitor shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnitee as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Indemnitor and the Indemnitee in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof), as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of such Indemnitor and Indemnitee shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or
Section 6
Section 6(a)
Section 6(b)
 
alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by such Indemnitor or by such Indemnitee, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The parties hereto agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this were determined solely by pro rata allocation (even if the Electing Holders or any underwriters, selling agents or other securities professionals or all of them were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the considerations referred to in this . The amount paid or payable by an Indemnitee as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) referred to above shall be deemed to include any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnitee in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The obligations of the Electing Holders and any underwriters, selling agents or other securities professionals in this to contribute shall be several in proportion to the percentage of Applicable Securities registered or underwritten, as the case may be, by them and not joint.
Section 6(d)
Section 6(d)
Section 11(f)
Section 6(d)
     7. . (a) The parties hereby irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of Delaware and the Federal courts of the United States of America located in the State of Delaware solely in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and of the documents referred to in this Agreement, and in respect of the transactions contemplated hereby, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense in any action, suit or proceeding for the interpretation or enforcement hereof or of any such document, that it is not subject thereto or that such action, suit or proceeding may not be brought or is not maintainable in said courts or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate or that this Agreement or any such document may not be enforced in or by such courts, and the parties hereto irrevocably agree that all claims with respect to such action or proceeding shall be heard and determined in such a Delaware State or Federal court. The parties hereby consent to and grant any such court jurisdiction over the person of such parties and, to the extent permitted by law, over the subject matter of such dispute and agree that mailing of process or other papers in connection with any such action or proceeding in the manner provided in or in such other manner as may be permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service thereof.
Miscellaneous
THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE MADE IN AND IN ALL RESPECTS SHALL BE INTERPRETED, CONSTRUED AND GOVERNED BY AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF.
Section 7(d)
     (b) EACH PARTY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT ANY CONTROVERSY WHICH MAY ARISE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT IS LIKELY TO INVOLVE COMPLICATED AND DIFFICULT ISSUES, AND THEREFORE EACH SUCH PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT SUCH PARTY MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT,
 
OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT. EACH PARTY CERTIFIES AND ACKNOWLEDGES THAT (I) NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER, (II) EACH PARTY UNDERSTANDS AND HAS CONSIDERED THE IMPLICATIONS OF THIS WAIVER, (III) EACH PARTY MAKES THIS WAIVER VOLUNTARILY, AND (IV) EACH PARTY HAS BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS AND .
SECTION 7(A)
SECTION 7(B)
     (c) This Agreement may be amended, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may be given, only by a written instrument duly executed, in the case of an amendment, by the Company and the Holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities then outstanding, or in the case of a waiver or consent, by the party against whom such waiver or consent is to be effective. Each Holder of Registrable Securities outstanding at the time of any such amendment, waiver or consent or thereafter shall be bound by any amendment, waiver or consent effected pursuant to this , whether or not any notice, writing or marking indicating such amendment, waiver or consent appears on the Registrable Securities or is delivered to such Holder. Waiver by any party of any breach in accordance with this or failure to comply with any provision of this Agreement by another party shall not be construed as, or constitute, a continuing wavier of such provisions, or a waiver of any other breach of or failure to comply with any other provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7(c)
Section 7(c)
     (d) All notices, requests and other communications to any party hereunder shall be in writing (including facsimile transmission) and shall be effective (a) when delivered, (b) when transmitted via telecopy (or other facsimile device) to the number set out below if the sender on the same day sends a confirming copy of such notice by a recognized overnight delivery service (charges prepaid), (c) the day following the day on which the same has been delivered prepaid to a reputable national overnight air courier service or (d) the third Business Day following the day on which the same is sent by certified or registered mail or by overnight courier, postage prepaid, in each case to the respective parties at the address set forth below, or at such other address as such party may specify by written notice to the other party hereto:
 
or to such other Persons or addresses as may be designated in writing by the party to receive such notice as provided above.
     (e) Any Holder of Registrable Securities shall be entitled to assign all or any part of its rights hereunder to any person in connection with any transfer to such person of Registrable Securities permitted by Law and the Investor Agreement and upon any such assignment and transfer such person shall be entitled to receive the benefits so assigned, and shall be bound by the terms and provisions of, this Agreement; , that no such assignment of rights hereunder may be made if it would result in their being more than four Holders (treating any Holder and its Affiliates collectively as one Holders). Except as provided in the preceding sentence, the rights and obligations of the parties under this Agreement shall not be assignable or transferable and there shall be no third party beneficiaries hereto. All the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be enforceable by, the legal successors and permitted assigns of the parties hereto and any Holder.
provided, however
     (f) This Agreement may be executed by the parties in any number of separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
     (g) The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
     (h) In any action or proceeding related to or arising out of the enforcement of, or defense against, any provision of this Agreement, the non-prevailing party in such action or proceeding shall pay, and the prevailing party shall be entitled to, all reasonable out-of-pocket
 
costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) of the prevailing party incurred in connection with such action or proceeding.
     (i) The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any provision shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other provisions hereof. If any provisions of this Agreement, or the application thereof to any Person or entity or any circumstance, is invalid or unenforceable, (i) a suitable and equitable provision shall be substituted therefor in order to carry out, so far as may be valid and enforceable the intent of such provision and (ii) the remainder of this Agreement and the application of such provision to other Persons, entities or circumstances shall not be affected by such invalidity or unenforceability, nor shall such invalidity or unenforceability affect the validity or enforceability of such provision, or the application thereof, in any other jurisdiction.
     (j) The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other provisions set forth in this Agreement or made pursuant hereto shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation (or any statement as to the results thereof) made by or on behalf of any Electing Holder, any director, officer or partner of such Electing Holder, any agent or underwriter, any director, officer or partner of such agent or underwriter, or any controlling person of any of the foregoing, and shall survive the transfer and registration of the Applicable Securities of such Holder.
     (k) This Agreement has been negotiated by the parties and their respective counsel in good faith and will be fairly interpreted in accordance with its terms and without any strict construction in favor of or against any party. Time shall be of the essence of this Agreement.
     (l) Each party hereby acknowledges and agrees that because the obligations undertaken by them hereunder are unique and the breach of any such obligations would cause irreparable harm and significant injury that would be difficult to ascertain and would not be adequately compensable by damages alone, each party will have the right to enforce such provisions by injunction, specific performance or other equitable relief without prejudice to any other rights and remedies the enforcing party may have.
     (m) Harris agrees that a majority of the Class A Directors (as defined in the Investor Agreement) shall have the sole and exclusive right to direct the exercise and enforcement of all rights of the Company hereunder.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.


