FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20081224130837.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
On December 19, 2008, the Board of Directors (the "") of Harris Corporation (the "" or "") authorized and approved changes to certain of the Company's compensation and benefits arrangements with Howard L. Lance, the Company's Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, primarily to reflect changes necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (""), and also to reflect other changes not related to Section 409A. Section 409A is the tax law enacted in 2004 governing "nonqualified" deferred compensation arrangements that imposes accelerated taxation and penalties on service providers (including employees and directors) if a covered arrangement does not comply with Section 409A. The changes to comply with Section 409A authorized and approved by the Board on December 19, 2008 generally affect the timing of compensation that could be received, the timing of any deferral distribution elections, the definition of certain payment triggers and other technical changes.
Board
Company
Harris
Section 409A
All such changes authorized and approved by the Board on December 19, 2008 are included in a new Letter Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2008 and effective January 1, 2009, between the Company and Mr. Lance governing the terms of Mr. Lance's employment with the Company (the "") and a Supplemental Pension Plan for Howard L. Lance (Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2009), dated as of December 19, 2008, between the Company and Mr. Lance (the ""). The Board acted upon the recommendation of the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board, and the 2009 Letter Agreement and the Restated SPP were authorized and approved by a vote of the independent members of the Board. Mr. Lance is the only non-independent member of the Board. Subsequent to authorization and approval by the Board, the Company and Mr. Lance entered into the 2009 Letter Agreement and the Restated SPP.
2009 Letter Agreement
Restated SPP
Employment Letter Agreement
Pursuant to the 2009 Letter Agreement, effective January 1, 2009, the existing employment Letter Agreement, dated December 3, 2004, between the Company and Mr. Lance (the ""), and all obligations under the 2004 Letter Agreement will expire and be of no further force and effect, and the terms of Mr. Lance's employment as Harris' Chief Executive Officer, President, a director and Chairman of the Board will be governed by the 2009 Letter Agreement. The following brief description summarizes the material terms and conditions of the 2009 Letter Agreement.
2004 Letter Agreement
The 2009 Letter Agreement provides for an indefinite term of employment commencing on January 1, 2009 and ending on termination of Mr. Lance's employment either by Harris with or without Cause (as defined in the 2009 Letter Agreement), or upon Mr. Lance's resignation for Good Reason (as defined in the 2009 Letter Agreement), death, Disability (as defined in the 2009 Letter Agreement), or other resignation or retirement.
In the event Mr. Lance's employment is terminated by Harris without Cause, which Harris shall be entitled to do upon thirty (30) days prior written notice, or by Mr. Lance for Good Reason, then provided that Mr. Lance has executed and delivered to Harris a release of claims against Harris, Mr. Lance would be entitled to receive from Harris:
 
In the event Mr. Lance's employment is terminated by Harris for Cause or due to Mr. Lance's Disability, upon Mr. Lance's resignation or retirement other than for Good Reason, or upon Mr. Lances' death, then Mr. Lance (or his estate or legal representative, as appropriate) shall be entitled to receive from Harris his accrued but unpaid base salary through the date of termination, his earned but unpaid bonus under the AIP for the prior fiscal year, reimbursement of reasonable business expenses incurred prior to the date of termination, and other or additional compensation benefits in accordance with the terms of applicable Harris plans or employee benefit programs for terminated employees. Harris may, at its option, terminate Mr. Lance's employment in the event of his Disability. In the event Mr. Lance's employment is terminated as a result of his death or Disability, he (or his estate or legal representative, as appropriate) shall also be entitled to other compensation benefits in accordance with the terms of applicable Harris plans for employees that die or become disabled, as appropriate.
In the event of a change in control of Harris (which, as provided in the 2009 Letter Agreement, is defined in the Executive Severance Agreement, dated as of January 20, 2003, as amended and restated as of December 19, 2008, by and between Harris and Mr. Lance (the "")), and if Mr. Lance's employment terminates under the circumstances provided under such Restated Severance Agreement, then Mr. Lance shall be entitled to the compensation and benefits provided under such Restated Severance Agreement in lieu of any compensation or benefits receivable by him under the 2009 Letter Agreement.
Restated Severance Agreement
The 2009 Letter Agreement also provides that, without Harris' written consent, Mr. Lance may not (i) associate with or hold a 5% or greater equity, voting or profit participation interest in a Competitive Enterprise (as defined in the 2009 Letter Agreement) during his employment with Harris and for a one-year period following termination of his employment for any reason (or a two-year period if he receives severance from Harris); or (ii) during his employment with Harris and for a two-year period following termination of his employment for any reason, Solicit (as defined in the 2009 Letter Agreement) any Customer (as defined in the 2009 Letter Agreement) or any employee of Harris to leave Harris.
The summary description of the 2009 Letter Agreement contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of the 2009 Letter Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Restated Supplemental Pension Plan
The Restated SPP amends and restates the Supplemental Pension Plan for Howard L. Lance (Adopted effective October 27, 2006), dated as of October 27, 2006, between Harris and Mr. Lance, and in addition to changes to comply with Section 409A, includes certain clarifying and other changes. The following brief description summarizes the material terms and conditions of the Restated SPP.
. If Mr. Lance retires at the date he attains age 60 (December 15, 2015), then he will be entitled to receive a benefit (the ""), calculated as a single life annuity for his life, equal to 32% of the sum of his base salary paid during the one-year period ending with the last day he held the position of Chief Executive Officer of the Company, plus his annual cash incentive (excluding any award under the Company's Performance Reward Plan or any successor plan thereto) payable at target, per the annual cash incentive arrangement in place for him on the last day he held the position of Chief Executive Officer of the Company (such sum, his "").
Retirement at Age 60
Normal Retirement Benefit
Final Pay
. If Mr. Lance retires after the date he attains age 60 (December 15, 2015), then he will be entitled to receive a benefit (the ""), calculated as a single life annuity for his life, equal to the product of (i) 32%, reduced by two-twelfths of 1% for each month by which Mr. Lance's age as of the last day he held the position of Chief Executive Officer of the Company exceeds age sixty 60, with any partial month rounded to the nearest whole month, and (ii) his Final Pay.
Retirement After Age 60
Late Retirement Benefit
 
. Mr. Lance will become eligible for an early retirement benefit on the date he has attained age 55 and accrued 10 years of credited service. Although Mr. Lance will attain age 55 on December 15, 2010, he will not have accrued 10 years of credited service until January 5, 2013 (the ""). If Mr. Lance retires on or after the Early Retirement Eligibility Date, but before the date he attains age 60 (December 15, 2015), then he will be entitled to receive a benefit (the ""), calculated as a single life annuity for his life, equal to the product of 32% and his Final Pay, with the result reduced by five-twelfths of 1% for each month by which age 60 exceeds Mr. Lance's age as of his termination date, with any partial month rounded to the nearest whole month.
Early Retirement
Early Retirement Eligibility Date
Early Retirement Benefit
If before the Early Retirement Eligibility Date Mr. Lance is terminated without Cause (which, as provided in the Restated SPP, is defined in the 2009 Letter Agreement) or terminates for Good Reason (which, as provided in the Restated SPP, is defined in the 2009 Letter Agreement), then he will be entitled to receive a benefit (the ""), calculated as a single life annuity for his life, equal to his Final Pay times the product of 2.5% times his years of credited service as of his termination date, with the result reduced by six-twelfths of 1% for each month by which age 57 exceeds Mr. Lance's age as of his termination date, with any partial month rounded to the nearest whole month.
Termination Without Cause or for Good Reason Prior to the Early Retirement Eligibility Date.
Termination Benefit
. If Mr. Lance becomes disabled before the Early Retirement Eligibility Date, then he will be entitled to receive a benefit (the ""), calculated as a single life annuity for his life, equal to his Final Pay times the product of 2.5% times his years of credited service as of his disability date, with the result reduced by six-twelfths of 1% for each month by which age 57 exceeds Mr. Lance's age as of his disability date, with any partial month rounded to the nearest whole month. For purposes of determining "Final Pay" in the event of Mr. Lance's disability, his base salary and annual cash incentive shall be determined as of his disability date, rather than the last day he held the position of Chief Executive Officer of the Company. If Mr. Lance becomes disabled on or after the Early Retirement Eligibility Date, then no Disability Retirement Benefit is payable under the Restated SPP and the benefit payable under the Restated SPP will be determined based upon retirement at or after age 60 or early retirement, as applicable.
Disability
Disability Retirement Benefit
. If Mr. Lance dies before the benefit commencement date under the Restated SPP, then no benefit shall be paid to any person or entity under the Restated SPP. If Mr. Lance dies after the benefit commencement date under the Restated SPP, then the benefit payable under the Restated SPP, if any, after his death shall be determined by the form of life annuity that was in force on his date of death.
Death
. If before the Early Retirement Eligibility Date Mr. Lance resigns or is terminated for Cause, then no benefit shall be paid to any person or entity under the Restated SPP.
Resignation or Termination for Cause Prior to the Early Retirement Eligibility Date
. If (i) Harris undergoes a change in control (which, as provided in the Restated SPP, is defined in the Restated Severance Agreement) and (ii) Mr. Lance terminates employment before his Early Retirement Eligibility Date under the circumstances that entitle him to benefits under Section 3 of the Restated Severance Agreement, then he will be entitled to receive a benefit (the ""), calculated as a single life annuity for his life, equal to his Final Pay times the product of 2.5% times his years of credited service as of his termination date plus 2 additional years of credited service (as though he had terminated employment on the second anniversary of his actual termination date), with the result reduced by six-twelfths of 1% for each month by which age 57 exceeds Mr. Lance's age as of his termination date, with any partial month rounded to the nearest whole month. However, under no circumstances will the Change in Control Retirement Benefit exceed the benefit that would have been payable to Mr. Lance under the Restated SPP in the case of early retirement had he attained age 55 and accrued 10 years of credited service as of the termination date.
Change in Control
Change in Control Retirement Benefit
If Harris undergoes a change in control and Mr. Lance terminates his employment on or after his Early Retirement Eligibility Date under the circumstances that entitle him to benefits under Section 3 of the Restated Severance Agreement, then no Change in Control Retirement Benefit is payable under the Restated SPP and the benefit payable under the Restated SPP will be determined based upon retirement at or after age 60 or early retirement, as applicable.
. If Mr. Lance receives any of the benefits under the Restated SPP described above, then during the period from the commencement date of such benefit to the date Mr. Lance attains age 65, there will be deducted from such benefit the amount of payments made to Mr. Lance under any and all long-term disability plan(s) (broad-based and executive) sponsored by Harris.
Reduction in Restated SPP Benefit for Disability Payments
. The Restated SPP contains non-competition and non-solicitation provisions consistent with the 2009 Letter Agreement (but extending through the entire period during which any benefit under the Restated SPP is payable, except in the event of Mr. Lance's termination without Cause or for Good Reason, in which case the non-competition and non-solicitation period shall not extend beyond the second anniversary of Mr. Lance's termination). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Restated SPP, if Mr. Lance violates the non-competition or non-solicitation restrictions in the Restated SPP, then no benefit shall be paid to any person or entity under the Restated SPP, or, if payments under the Restated SPP have commenced as of the date of such violation, then such payments shall cease immediately and no further payments under the Restated SPP shall be made.
Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation
 
. The normal form of payment to Mr. Lance of his benefit under the Restated SPP is a single life annuity for the life of Mr. Lance as described above, payable annually. However, Mr. Lance may elect, before the benefit commencement date under the Restated SPP, subject to compliance with Section 409A and certain other requirements, that his benefit under the Restated SPP be paid to him or to him and his surviving spouse in any life annuity form (as defined in Section 409A) that is the actuarial equivalent of the benefit under the Restated SPP payable as an annual single life annuity. In the case of the Normal Retirement Benefit and the Late Retirement Benefit, payment shall commence the first day of the month coincident with or next following Mr. Lance's termination. In the case of the Early Retirement Benefit, the Termination Benefit and the Change in Control Retirement Benefit, Mr. Lance may elect, subject to Section 409A requirements, that payment commence as of the first day of any month coincident with or following his termination, but not later than the first day of the month coincident with or next following the date he attains age 60 (any payment elected by Mr. Lance to commence later than Mr. Lance's termination date shall be the actuarial equivalent (as defined in the Restated SPP) of the benefit that would have been paid to Mr. Lance had payment commenced on his termination date). In the case of the Disability Retirement Benefit, payment shall commence the first day of the month coincident with or next following the disability date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the payment of Mr. Lance's benefit under the Restated SPP shall be subject to a six (6) month delay required by Section 409A in the event that Mr. Lance is a specified employee at the time of his termination.
Form and Timing of Benefits
. The Restated SPP shall at all times be unfunded such that benefits under the Restated SPP shall be paid solely from the general assets of Harris and/or the irrevocable rabbi trust established by Harris, as applicable, and Mr. Lance and/or his surviving spouse shall have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor of Harris with respect to any rights under the Restated SPP. On the earlier of Mr. Lance's termination date or the date Harris undergoes a change in control, Harris shall maintain an irrevocable rabbi trust and contribute to the trust in cash or other liquid assets acceptable to the trustee the actuarially equivalent present value of (A) the total benefits expected to be paid to Mr. Lance and his surviving spouse under the Restated SPP plus (B) the trust administration and trustee fees and expenses.
Funding
The summary description of the Restated SPP contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of the Restated SPP, which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits.
     The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Howard L. Lance Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Harris Corporation 1025 W. NASA Boulevard Melbourne, Florida 32919
               Re:     
Employment by Harris Corporation
Dear Howard,
As you are aware, Harris Corporation (the "Corporation") must cause its compensation programs to become compliant with the requirements of section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code by December 31, 2008. In connection therewith, we have identified certain changes that need to be made to the Letter Agreement between you and the Corporation dated December 3, 2004 (the "2004 Letter Agreement"). We have agreed that, effective as of January 1, 2009, (i) the 2004 Letter Agreement and all obligations under that agreement shall expire and be of no further force and effect and (ii) the terms of your employment shall be governed by the terms of this letter agreement (the "Agreement"), which terms are set forth below.
 
Mr. Howard L. Lance December 19, 2008 Page 2
 
Mr. Howard L. Lance December 19, 2008 Page 3
 
Mr. Howard L. Lance December 19, 2008 Page 4
 
Mr. Howard L. Lance December 19, 2008 Page 5
 
Mr. Howard L. Lance December 19, 2008 Page 6
 
Mr. Howard L. Lance December 19, 2008 Page 7
 
Mr. Howard L. Lance December 19, 2008 Page 8

Exhibit 10.2
     In order to provide appropriate compensation to and ensure the retention of Howard L. Lance (the "Employee") as Chief Executive Officer of Harris Corporation (the "Corporation"), the Board of Directors determined that it was in the best interest of the Corporation to adopt this Supplemental Pension Plan for Howard L. Lance (the "SPP"), effective October 27, 2006.
     The Corporation and the Employee desire to amend and restate the SPP, effective January 1, 2009, to assure its compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time (the ""), and to make certain clarifying changes thereto.
Code
     The Corporation intends that the SPP shall be an unfunded plan maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of Sections 201, 301, and 401 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA").
     When used herein, the following words and phrases and any derivatives thereof shall have the meanings set forth below unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Definitions of other words and phrases are set forth throughout the SPP. Section references indicate Sections of the SPP unless otherwise stated.
     "Actuarial Equivalent" means equal value computed on the basis of (i) the "applicable mortality table" determined from time to time under Section 417(e)(3) of the Code, and (ii) a discount rate equal to 120% of the annual long-term Applicable Federal Rate for purposes of Section 1274(d) of the Code for the calendar month containing the Termination Date, compounded annually.
     "Cause" has the meaning set forth in the Letter Agreement.
     "Compensation Committee" means the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
     "Corporation" means Harris Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
 
     "Disabled" or "Disability" means that the Employee either (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, or (ii) by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, is receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Corporation.
     "Disability Date" means the date on which the Employee becomes Disabled.
     "Early Retirement Eligibility Date" means the date the Employee has attained age 55 and accrued 10 Years of Credited Service.
     "Employee" means Howard L. Lance.
     "Executive Severance Agreement" means the Executive Severance Agreement between the Employee and the Corporation dated December 19, 2008, and effective January 1, 2009.
     "Final Pay" means the sum of (i) the Employee's base salary paid during the one-year period ending with the last day the Employee held the position of Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, plus (ii) the Employee's annual cash incentive (excluding any award under the Harris Corporation Performance Reward Plan or any successor plan thereto) payable at target, per the annual cash incentive arrangement in place for the Employee on the last day the Employee held the position of Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation; , , that for purposes of determining "Final Pay" in the event of the Employee's Disability, the Employee's base salary and annual cash incentive shall be determined as of the Disability Date, rather than on the last day the Employee held the position of the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.
provided
however
     "Good Reason" has the meaning set forth in the Letter Agreement.
     "Late Retirement Date" means the Employee's Termination Date, if the Termination Date occurs after the Employee's Normal Retirement Date.
     "Letter Agreement" means the Letter Agreement between the Employee and the Corporation dated December 19, 2008, and effective January 1, 2009.
     "Normal Retirement Date" means the date the Employee attains age 60.
     "SPP" means the Supplemental Pension Plan for Howard L. Lance, as contained herein and as hereafter amended from time to time.
 
     "SPP Benefit" means any benefit to which the Employee is entitled pursuant to Section 3 of this SPP.
     "SPP Commencement Date" means the date that payment of the SPP Benefit hereunder actually commences.
     "Surviving Spouse" means the person to whom the Employee is legally married on his SPP Commencement Date.
     "Termination Date" means the date of the Employee's separation from service with the Corporation and its affiliates within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(h) (without regard to any permissible alternative definition thereunder). Notwithstanding any other provision herein, "affiliate" for purposes of determining whether the Employee has incurred a "separation from service" shall be defined to include all entities that would be treated as part of the group of entities comprising the Corporation under Sections 414(b) and (c) of the Code and the accompanying regulations, but substituting a 50% ownership level for the 80% ownership level set forth therein.
     "Trust" means any trust created under Section 7.2(b) pursuant to an agreement by and between the Corporation and the trustee, under which assets are held in connection with paying benefits under the SPP.
     "Years of Credited Service" shall be measured on the basis of twelve (12) consecutive month periods commencing on the Employee's effective date of employment and subsequent annual anniversaries thereof, and ending on the Employee's Termination Date. Any period of less than twelve (12) consecutive months shall be rounded to the nearest whole month. Paid and authorized leaves of absence shall not cause a break in consecutive employment periods.
     The only participant in the SPP shall be the Employee.
     3.1 . If the Employee retires on his Normal Retirement Date, then the Employee shall be entitled to a Normal Retirement Benefit. The "" shall be a benefit, calculated as a single life annuity for the Employee's life, equal to ThirtyTwo Percent (32%) of the Employee's Final Pay.
Normal Retirement Benefit
Normal Retirement Benefit
 
     3.2 . If the Employee retires on his Late Retirement Date, then the Employee shall be entitled to a Late Retirement Benefit. The "" shall be a benefit, calculated as a single life annuity for the Employee's life, equal to the product of the Late Retirement Benefit Percentage and the Employee's Final Pay. The "" shall be Thirty-Two Percent (32%), reduced Two-Twelfths (2/12) of One Percent (1%) for each month by which the Employee's age as of the last day the Employee held the position of Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation exceeds age sixty (60), with any partial month rounded to the nearest whole month (, 30% if the Employee is age 61 as of such date, 29% if the Employee is age 61/ as of such date and 28% if the Employee is age 62 as of such date).
Late Retirement Benefit
Late Retirement Benefit
Late Retirement Benefit Percentage
ths
e.g.
1
2
     3.3 . If the Employee retires on or after his Early Retirement Eligibility Date, but before his Normal Retirement Date, then the Employee shall be entitled to an Early Retirement Benefit. The "" shall be a benefit, calculated as a single life annuity for the Employee's life, equal to the product of Thirty-Two Percent (32%) and the Employee's Final Pay, with the result reduced Five-Twelfths (5/12) of One Percent (1%) for each month by which age sixty (60) exceeds the Employee's age as of the Termination Date, with any partial month rounded to the nearest whole month. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Employee elects pursuant to Sections 5.1(b) and 5.2(a)(2) that payment of the Early Retirement Benefit commence on a date later than the Termination Date, then the Early Retirement Benefit shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the Early Retirement Benefit that would have been paid to the Employee had payment thereof commenced on the Termination Date.
Early Retirement Benefit
Early Retirement Benefit
ths
     3.4 . If before his Early Retirement Eligibility Date the Employee is terminated without Cause or terminates for Good Reason, then the Employee shall be entitled to a Termination Benefit. The "" shall be a benefit, calculated as a single life annuity for the Employee's life, equal to the Employee's Final Pay times the product of (w) times (x), with the result reduced by (y). For this purpose, (w) is Two and One-Half Percent (2.5%), (x) is the Employee's Years of Credited Service as of his Termination Date and (y) is Six-Twelfths (6/12) of One Percent (1%) for each month by which age fifty-seven (57) exceeds the Employee's age as of the Termination Date, with any partial month rounded to the nearest whole month. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Employee elects pursuant to Sections 5.1(b) and 5.2(a)(2) that payment of the Termination Benefit commence on a date later than the Termination Date, then the Termination Benefit shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the Termination Benefit that would have been paid to the Employee had payment thereof commenced on the Termination Date.
Termination without Cause or for Good Reason prior to Early Retirement Eligibility Date
Termination Benefit
ths
     3.5 .
Disability Retirement Benefit
          (a) If the Employee becomes Disabled before his Early Retirement Eligibility Date, then the Employee shall be entitled to a Disability Retirement Benefit. The "" shall be a benefit, calculated as a single life annuity for the Employee's life, equal to the Employee's Final Pay times the product of (w) times (x), with the result reduced by (y). For this purpose, (w) is Two and One-Half Percent (2.5%), (x) is the Employee's Years of
Disability Retirement Benefit
 
Credited Service as of his Disability Date and (y) is Six-Twelfths (6/12) of One Percent (1%) for each month by which age fifty-seven (57) exceeds the Employee's age as of the Disability Date, with any partial month rounded to the nearest whole month.
ths
          (b) If the Employee becomes Disabled on or after his Early Retirement Eligibility Date, then no Disability Retirement Benefit shall be payable under the SPP and the Employee's SPP Benefit shall be determined under Section 3.1, 3.2, or 3.3, as applicable.
     3.6 .
Death of Employee
          (a) If the Employee dies before his SPP Commencement Date, then no benefit shall be paid to any person or entity under this SPP.
          (b) If the Employee dies after his SPP Commencement Date, then the SPP Benefit, if any, after the Employee's death shall be determined by the form of life annuity that was in force on the Employee's date of death.
     3.7 . If before his Early Retirement Eligibility Date the Employee resigns or is terminated for Cause, then no benefit shall be paid to any person or entity under this SPP.
Resignation or Termination for Cause prior to Early Retirement Eligibility Date
     3.8 .
Change in Control
          (a) If (i) the Corporation undergoes a "change in control" (as defined in the Executive Severance Agreement), and (ii) the Employee terminates employment before his Early Retirement Eligibility Date under the circumstances that entitle the Employee to benefits under Section 3 of the Executive Severance Agreement, then the Employee shall be entitled to a Change in Control Retirement Benefit. The "" shall be a benefit, calculated as a single life annuity for the Employee's life, equal to the Employee's Final Pay times the product of (w) times (x), with the result reduced by (y). For this purpose, (w) is Two and One-Half Percent (2.5%), (x) is the Employee's Years of Credited Service as of his Termination Date, plus two (2) additional Years of Credited Service, as though the Employee had terminated employment with the Corporation on the second anniversary of his actual Termination Date and (y) is Six-Twelfths (6/12) of One Percent (1%) for each month by which age fifty-seven (57) exceeds the Employee's age as of the Termination Date, with any partial month rounded to the nearest whole month; , , that under no circumstances shall the Change in Control Retirement Benefit exceed the Early Retirement Benefit that would have been payable to the Employee pursuant to Section 3.3 had the Employee attained age fifty-five (55) and accrued ten (10) Years of Credited Service as of the Termination Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Employee elects pursuant to Sections 5.1(b) and 5.2(a)(2) that payment of the Change in Control Retirement Benefit commence on a date later than the Termination Date, then the Change in Control Retirement Benefit shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the Change in Control Retirement Benefit that would have been paid to the Employee had payment thereof commenced on the Termination Date.
Change in Control Retirement Benefit
ths
provided
however
 
          (b) If (i) the Corporation undergoes a "change in control" (as defined in the Executive Severance Agreement), and (ii) the Employee terminates employment on or after his Early Retirement Eligibility Date under the circumstances that entitle the Employee to benefits under Section 3 of the Executive Severance Agreement, then no Change in Control Retirement Benefit shall be payable under the SPP and the Employee's SPP Benefit shall be determined under Section 3.1, 3.2, or 3.3, as applicable.
     3.9 . If the Employee receives an SPP Benefit under this Section 3, then during the period from the Employee's SPP Commencement Date to the date that the Employee attains age 65 there shall be deducted from the SPP Benefit the amount of payments made to the Employee under any and all long-term disability plan(s) (broad-based and executive) sponsored by the Corporation.
Reduction in SPP Benefit for Disability Payments
     4.1 . The Employee's entitlement to an SPP Benefit is described in Section 3. For example, as provided in Section 3.7, if before his Early Retirement Eligibility Date the Employee resigns or is terminated for Cause, then no benefit shall be paid to any person or entity under this SPP. However, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 3 or the SPP, if the Employee violates the provisions of either Section 4.2 or 4.3 below, then no benefit shall be paid to any person or entity under this SPP, or, if SPP payments have commenced as of the date of such violation, then payments shall cease immediately and no further SPP payments shall be made.
In General
     4.2 . During the Employee's employment with the Corporation and continuing thereafter while the Employee is entitled to receive or is receiving benefits under the SPP (provided, however, that if the Employee is terminated by the Corporation without Cause or if the Employee terminates employment for Good Reason, then this Section 4.2 shall remain in effect only until the second anniversary of the Employee's Termination Date), the Employee shall not directly or indirectly (without the Corporation's written consent):
Non-Competition Provision
          (a) hold a 5% or greater equity (including stock options, whether or not exercisable), voting or profit participation interest in a "Competitive Enterprise" (as hereinafter defined), or
          (b) associate (including as a director, officer, employee, partner, consultant, agent or advisor) with a Competitive Enterprise and in connection with the Employee's association engage, or directly or indirectly manage or supervise personnel engaged, in any activity:
 
(i) that is substantially related to any activity that the Employee was engaged in with the Corporation or its affiliates during the 12 months prior to the Termination Date,
(ii) that is substantially related to any activity for which the Employee had direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility with the Corporation or its affiliates during the 12 months prior to the Termination Date, or
(iii) that calls for the application of relationships or specialized knowledge or skills substantially related to those used by the Employee in his activities with the Corporation or its affiliates during the 12 months prior to the Termination Date.
For purposes of the SPP, "" means any business enterprise that either (A) engages in any activity that competes anywhere with any activity that the Corporation or its affiliates is then engaged in or (B) holds a 5% or greater equity, voting or profit participation interest in any enterprise that engages in such a competitive activity.
Competitive Enterprise
     4.3 . During the Employee's employment with the Corporation, and continuing thereafter while the Employee is entitled to receive or is receiving benefits under the SPP (provided, however, that if the Employee is terminated by the Corporation without Cause or if the Employee terminates employment for Good Reason, then this Section 4.3 shall remain in effect only until the second anniversary of the Employee's Termination Date), the Employee shall not, in any manner, directly or indirectly (without the prior written consent of the Corporation): (i) "Solicit" (as hereinafter defined) any "Customer" (as hereinafter defined) to transact business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the Corporation, (ii) transact business with any Customer that would cause the Employee to be a Competitive Enterprise, (iii) interfere with or damage any relationship between the Corporation and a Customer or (iv) Solicit anyone who is then an employee of the Corporation (or who was an employee of the Corporation within the prior 12 months) to resign from the Corporation or to apply for or accept employment with any other business or enterprise. For purposes of the SPP, a "" means any customer or prospective customer of the Corporation or its affiliates whose identity became known to the Employee in connection with his relationship with or employment by the Corporation or its affiliates, and "" means any direct or indirect communication of any kind, regardless of who initiates it, that in any way invites, advises, encourages or requests any person to take or refrain from taking any action.
Non-Solicitation Provision
Customer
Solicit
 
     5.1 .
Employee Election as to Form and Timing of Benefit
          (a) The normal form of payment to the Employee of his SPP Benefit is a single life annuity for the life of the Employee, payable annually. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Employee may elect in writing, prior to the SPP Commencement Date, that his SPP Benefit be paid to him or to him and his Surviving Spouse in any "life annuity" (as defined under Section 409A of the Code and regulations thereunder) form that is the actuarial equivalent of the SPP Benefit payable as an annual single life annuity, and for purposes of clarity, under no circumstances shall the SPP Benefit be payable in the form of a lump sum. Actuarial equivalence for this purpose shall be determined utilizing the actuarial assumptions and methods set forth in the definition of "Actuarial Equivalent" set forth in Section 1 hereof, or, if such assumptions and methods are determined to be unreasonable for purposes of Section 409A of the Code, utilizing such actuarial assumptions and methods which are determined to be reasonable for purposes of Section 409A of the Code.
          (b) The Employee shall initially be given an opportunity to make the election described in Section 5.2(a)(2) with respect to the commencement of his Early Retirement Benefit, Termination Benefit or Change in Control Retirement Benefit in writing no later than December 31, 2008 (or any later date permitted under transitional rules under Section 409A of the Code). Any subsequent change in such election also shall be made in writing, must be received by the Corporation no later than twelve (12) months prior to the SPP Commencement Date and must provide for a five (5) year delay in payment as required by Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code. The Employee shall elect a single SPP Commencement Date that shall apply to each of the Early Retirement Benefit, Termination Benefit and Change in Control Retirement Benefit.
     5.2 .
Commencement
          (a) The Employee shall commence receipt of any SPP Benefit payable pursuant to Section 3 on the applicable date under this Section 5.2, but, except in the case of a Disability Retirement Benefit, not earlier than his Termination Date, or, if the Employee is a "Specified Employee" under the Harris Corporation Specified Employee Policy for 409A Arrangements as of his Termination Date, six (6) months after his Termination Date:
               (1) If the Employee is entitled to receive a Normal Retirement Benefit under Section 3.1 or a Late Retirement Benefit under Section 3.2, his SPP Commencement Date shall be the first day of the month coincident with or next following the Employee's Termination Date.
 
               (2) If the Employee is entitled to receive an Early Retirement Benefit under Section 3.3, a Termination Benefit under Section 3.4 or a Change in Control Retirement Benefit under Section 3.8, his SPP Commencement Date shall be the date elected by the Employee pursuant to Section 5.1(b) which is the first day of any month coincident with or following the Employee's Termination Date, but not later than the first day of the month coincident with or next following the Employee's Normal Retirement Date. In the absence of any such election, the Employee shall be deemed to have elected that his SPP Commencement Date with respect to the Early Retirement Benefit, Termination Benefit or Change in Control Retirement Benefit be the first day of the month coincident with or next following the Employee's Termination Date.
               (3) If the Employee is entitled to receive a Disability Retirement Benefit under Section 3.5, his SPP Commencement Date shall be the first day of the month coincident with or next following the Employee's Disability Date.
          (b) If payment to the Employee of the SPP Benefit is delayed six (6) months after his Termination Date pursuant to Section 5.2(a), then each and every periodic payment which otherwise would have been paid during the six (6) month delay period shall be paid in a lump sum during the seventh calendar month following the Employee's Termination Date and each such delayed payment shall have added to it interest calculated at the discount rate for determining Actuarial Equivalence under the SPP.
          (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions herein, to the extent permitted under Section 409A of the Code, payment may be delayed in the event that (i) calculation of the amount of the payment is not administratively practical due to events beyond the Employee's control, (ii) there is a dispute as to amount due or the proper recipient of such benefit payment, (iii) the payment would jeopardize the ability of the Corporation to continue as a going concern, or (iv) the Corporation reasonably anticipates that the payment will violate Federal securities laws or other applicable laws. If payment is delayed under (i), (ii) or (iii) above, the payment shall be made during the first calendar year in which the calculation of the amount of the payment is administratively practicable, the amount or recipient of the payment is no longer in dispute, or the making of the payment would not have such effect on the Corporation, whichever is applicable. If payment is delayed under (iv) above, the payment shall be made at the earliest date at which the Corporation reasonably anticipates that the making of the payment will not cause such violation.
     5.3 .
Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan Omnibus Provision
          (a) It is intended that any benefit which is provided pursuant to or in connection with the SPP or the Trust which is considered to be nonqualified deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code shall be provided and paid in a manner, and at such time and in such form, as complies with the applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Code to avoid the unfavorable tax consequences provided therein for non-compliance. This SPP shall be interpreted consistent with such intent.
 
          (b) It is specifically intended that all elections, consents and modifications thereto under the SPP will comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code (including any transition rules thereunder). The Compensation Committee is authorized to adopt rules or regulations deemed necessary or appropriate in connection therewith to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. The Compensation Committee is authorized to amend or declare void any election under the SPP in such manner as may be determined by it to be necessary or appropriate to evidence or further evidence required compliance with Section 409A of the Code.
          (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this SPP, neither the Corporation nor its affiliates shall be liable in any manner for any federal, state or local income or excise taxes (including but not limited to any taxes under Sections 409A or 4999 of the Code), or penalties or interest with respect thereto, as a result of the payment of any benefits under the SPP or the inclusion of the SPP Benefit or the value thereof in the Employee's income; and further provided that in consideration of the Corporation's adoption of the SPP for the benefit of Employee, Employee expressly waives his right to any gross-up payment under Section 4 of the Executive Severance Agreement (which Section addresses excise taxes under Section 4999 of the Code or interest or penalties with respect thereto), but only as such gross-up relates to the SPP Benefit itself, and not with respect to any other payment to Employee under any plan, arrangement, or agreement other than the SPP; and to such extent the SPP shall be deemed to be a modification pursuant to Section 18 of the Executive Severance Agreement.
     The SPP may be amended or terminated only by a writing signed by both the Corporation and Employee. The SPP is based on the current provisions of the law applicable to such type of plan. If there is a material change in the law, the Corporation will work with Employee in good faith to provide a comparable or amended plan taking into account any such change in the law. In the event the benefit accrual under the SPP is frozen, payment of vested benefits under the SPP shall nevertheless be made pursuant to Section 5. Any termination of the SPP shall be effected in conformity with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
     7.1 . Nothing contained herein will confer upon the Employee the right to be retained in the service of the Corporation nor limit the right of the Corporation to discharge or otherwise deal with the Employee without regard to the existence of the SPP.
No Effect on Employment Rights
 
     7.2 .
Funding
     (a) . The SPP at all times shall be unfunded such that the SPP Benefit shall be paid solely from the general assets of the Corporation and/or the Trust, as applicable. Neither the Employee nor his Surviving Spouse shall have any interest in any particular assets of the Corporation and/or the Trust by reason of the right to receive a benefit under the SPP and the Employee or his Surviving Spouse shall have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor of the Corporation with respect to any rights under the SPP. Nothing contained in the SPP and/or the Trust shall constitute a guaranty by the Corporation or any other entity or person that the assets of the Corporation and/or the Trust will be sufficient to pay any benefit hereunder.
General Rules
     (b) . No later than the Employee's Termination Date or, if earlier, the date the Corporation undergoes a "change in control" (as defined in the Executive Severance Agreement), (i) the Corporation shall maintain the Trust as hereinafter described; and (ii) the Corporation shall contribute to the Trust in cash or other liquid assets acceptable to the trustee of the Trust (A) the Actuarially Equivalent present value of the total benefits expected to be paid to the Employee and his Surviving Spouse under the SPP, with such amount to be determined by a nationally recognized actuarial firm, which may be an actuarial firm that is at the time of determination providing actuarial or other services to the Corporation or its benefit plans; plus (B) the Actuarially Equivalent present value of the Trust administration and trustee fees and expenses (including the fees and expenses of any agent of the trustee) which the trustee reasonably expects to be incurred over the life of the Trust. The terms of the Trust shall generally follow the model rabbi trust set forth in IRS Revenue Procedure 92-64, except that (1) the Trust shall be irrevocable from the date of its creation; (2) the Trust shall be non-amendable by the Corporation except with the consent of the Employee or his legal representative; (3) the power to direct the investment of the Trust assets shall be held by the Corporation; (4) the Corporation shall remain liable for the payment of the SPP Benefit to the extent there is any shortfall of assets under the Trust; (5) the initial trustee and any successor thereto shall be a bank or trust company with shareholder equity of at least $1.0 billion; and (6) neither the Trust nor its assets shall be located or transferred outside the United States.
Creation of and Funding of Rabbi Trust
     7.3 . The SPP shall be administered by the Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee shall have all powers necessary or appropriate to carry out the provisions of the SPP. It may, from time to time, establish rules for the administration of the SPP and the transaction of the SPP's business.
Administration
     The Compensation Committee shall have the exclusive right to make any finding of fact necessary or appropriate for any purpose under the SPP including, but not limited to, the determination of eligibility for and amount of any benefit.
     The Compensation Committee shall have the exclusive right to interpret the terms and provisions of the SPP and to determine any and all questions arising under the SPP or in connection with its administration, including, without limitation, the right to remedy or resolve possible ambiguities, inconsistencies, or omissions by general rule or particular decision, all in its sole and absolute discretion.
 
     To the extent permitted by law, all findings of fact, determinations, interpretations, and decisions of the Compensation Committee shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having or claiming to have any interest in or right under the SPP.
     7.4 . The Employee shall be a signatory to and shall receive a copy of the SPP.
Disclosure
     7.5 . The SPP is established under and will be construed according to the laws of the State of Florida, to the extent that such laws are not preempted by ERISA and valid regulations published thereunder.
State Law
     7.6 . No benefit payable under the SPP or by the Trust will be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge prior to actual receipt thereof by the payee. Any attempt so to anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber or charge prior to such receipt will be void. The Corporation and the trustee will not be liable in any manner for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements or torts of any person entitled to any benefit under the SPP. The amounts payable under the SPP or by the Trust will be exempt from the claims of the Employee's creditors to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Spendthrift Provisions
     7.7 . In the event the recipient of a benefit payable under the SPP is declared incompetent and a conservator or other person legally charged with the care of the recipient's person or estate is appointed, any benefits under the SPP (including any payments from the Trust) to which such recipient is entitled shall be paid to such conservator or other person legally charged with the care of the recipient's person or estate. Except as provided above in this Section, when the Compensation Committee in its sole discretion, determines that a recipient of a benefit payable under the SPP is unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the Compensation Committee may direct the Corporation or the trustee to make distributions to a duly authorized person for the benefit of such recipient.
Incapacity of Recipient
     7.8 . The Employee shall keep the Compensation Committee informed of his current address and the current address of his spouse. The Compensation Committee shall not be obligated to search for the whereabouts of any person. If the location of the Employee or the Employee's Surviving Spouse is not made known to the Compensation Committee such that an amount payable under the SPP may be paid to such person no later than the Latest Payment Date, then such payment irrevocably shall be forfeited immediately following the Latest Payment Date. For this purpose, the "Latest Payment Date" shall be the latest date on which a payment of the SPP Benefit may be paid to the Employee or the Surviving Spouse, as applicable, without the imposition of excise taxes and other penalties under Section 409A of the Code.
Unclaimed Benefit
 
     7.9 . Notwithstanding any other provision of the SPP, except for payment of the SPP Benefit and expense reimbursements, if any, due under the SPP by the Corporation and/or from the Trust, neither the Corporation, the trustee nor any individual acting as an agent of the Corporation or as a member of the Compensation Committee shall be liable to the Employee, Surviving Spouse or any other person for any claim, loss, liability or expense incurred in connection with the SPP or the Trust.
Limitations on Liability
     7.10 . The Compensation Committee has full discretion and the exclusive right to determine eligibility for benefits under the SPP pursuant to its terms. The determination of the Compensation Committee may only be appealed to the Board of Directors of the Corporation. Claims and appeals shall be processed in accordance with the requirements of ERISA, to the extent applicable thereto. The foregoing shall not eliminate or reduce the authority and powers of the trustee under the Trust.
Claims Procedure
     7.11 . The Employee will have no right to or interest in any portion of the SPP and/or the Trust except as specifically provided in the SPP and/or the Trust.
No Enlargement of Rights
     7.12 . Payments under the SPP or from the Trust will be subject to withholding for payroll taxes as required by law, including federal, state and local income taxes and FICA taxes.
Withholding for Taxes
     7.13 . The Corporation agrees to pay, to the full extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses which the Employee may reasonably incur as a result of a contest, arbitration, litigation or other dispute resolution or legal action in which the Employee substantially prevails, whether instituted by or against the Corporation, the Employee, any director, officer, shareholder or other person affiliated with the Corporation, or any successor thereto in any jurisdiction, of the validity or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of the SPP or the Trust or any guarantee of performance thereof (including as a result of any contest by the Employee about the amount of any payment pursuant to the SPP or the Trust), plus in each case interest on any delayed payment calculated at the discount rate for determining Actuarial Equivalence under the SPP. Within fourteen (14) days following the date of any substantial prevail by the Employee in a dispute, the Employee shall provide the Corporation with copies of invoices and other documents reasonably requested by the Corporation evidencing the legal fees and expenses incurred by the Employee in connection with the dispute. Any payment by the Corporation pursuant to this Section 7.13 shall be made within sixty (60) days following the date that the Employee substantially prevails in the dispute.
Employee's Expense in Dispute Resolution
     7.14 . Except to the extent that the SPP expressly refers to other documents, such as the Letter Agreement and the Executive Severance Agreement, the SPP constitutes the sole and complete understanding between the Corporation and the Employee with respect to all issues arising from the Corporation's obligation under the SPP. The SPP replaces and supersedes all previous written documents and all oral agreements, of any nature whatsoever, regarding the Corporation's obligation to provide such supplemental retirement benefits (but only such benefits) and expense reimbursements, if any, to the
All Prior Agreements Superseded
 
Employee, and the Employee has indicated his acknowledgement of said fact by signing this SPP in the space below.
     7.15 . In the event the Employee or his Surviving Spouse becomes subject to tax with respect to a SPP Benefit before the time for payment set forth in Section 5.2, then, to the extent permitted under, and in compliance with the requirements of, Section 409A of the Code, distribution may be made to or for the benefit of the Employee or his Surviving Spouse of the amount of such tax (including interest and penalties). In such event, the SPP Benefit shall be reduced by the Actuarially Equivalent value of such distribution (other than the amount for interest or penalties) with such reduction to be made on a pro-rata basis over the remaining term of benefit payments under the SPP. If any such distribution exceeds benefits payable under the SPP, then the Employee, his beneficiary or estate of the Employee or his Surviving Spouse receiving the same shall be obligated to return to the Corporation that part of such distribution which exceeds benefits payable under the SPP.
Distributions to Pay Taxes and Corresponding Reduction of Benefit
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Employee and Harris Corporation have caused this Supplemental Pension Plan to be executed on the date(s) shown below, but effective as of the date indicated above.
Witnessed by:
  /s/   Scott T. Mikuen              


