FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20081029171100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
     On October 23, 2008, the Management Development and Compensation Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Harris Corporation (the "Company") authorized and approved amendments to certain of the Company's compensation and benefits arrangements and to individual agreements with certain of the Company's "named executive officers" (as such term is defined in Instruction 4 to Item 5.02 of Form 8-K) and other employees, primarily to reflect changes necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ("Section 409A"). Section 409A is the tax law enacted in 2004 governing "nonqualified" deferred compensation arrangements that imposes additional tax and penalties on service providers (including employees and directors) if a covered arrangement does not comply with Section 409A. In addition, on October 24, 2008, the Board authorized and approved amendments to certain of the Company's compensation and benefit arrangements covering non-employee directors, the named executive officers and other employees, primarily to reflect changes necessary to comply with Section 409A. The amendments authorized and approved by the Compensation Committee on October 23, 2008 and by the Board on October 24, 2008 generally affect the timing, but not the amount, of compensation that could be received, the timing of any deferral distribution elections, the definition of certain payment triggers and other technical changes.
     Such amendments included amendments to the following compensation and benefits arrangements and individual agreements:
 
     The foregoing description of the amendments to the Company's compensation and benefits arrangements and to certain individual agreements is not a complete description. The Company will provide the full text of such amendments as exhibits to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending January 2, 2009.
Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation
     At the Company's 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on October 24, 2008, the shareholders of the Company approved the following amendments to the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation: (i) an amendment to increase the number of authorized shares of the Company's common stock from 250,000,000 shares to 500,000,000 shares; and (ii) an amendment to phase-in the declassification of the Board. The amendments became effective upon filing of the Company's Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on October 28, 2008. A copy of the Certificate of Amendment is filed as Exhibit 3(i) to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference into this Item 5.03.
Amendment and Restatement of By-Laws
     On October 24, 2008, the Board, acting upon the recommendation of the Corporate Governance Committee, amended and restated the Company's By-Laws. The following is a summary of the changes effected by the amendments to the By-Laws:
     Article II, Section 4 of the By-Laws was amended: to add a provision specifying when notice of an annual or special meeting of shareholders is deemed given, if sent by electronic mail or posted on an electronic network; and to add a provision specifying that notice is deemed given to all shareholders of record who share an address if notice is given in accordance with the "householding" rules set forth in Rule 14a-3(e) under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 233 of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
     Article III, Section 3 of the By-Laws was amended to provide that each director shall hold office for the term set forth in Article ELEVENTH of the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, in order to be consistent with the amendment to the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation to phase-in the declassification of the Board, as described above. The previous provision stated that each director shall hold office until the annual meeting for the year in which his or her term expires.
     Article IV of the By-Laws was amended to provide that each committee of the Board may consist of one or more directors of the Company. The previous provision stated that each committee of the Board may consist of two or more directors of the Company. Article IV of the By-Laws was also amended to add provisions specifying that the Board may designate alternate members of any committee of the Board, the Board may eliminate one or more committees and a Board committee may create, and delegate its powers and authority to, subcommittees consisting of one or more members of the committee.
     In addition, the advance notice provision of the By-Laws was amended in the following manner (unless otherwise noted below such changes are reflected in Article II, Section 8(b) of the By-Laws, as amended and restated):
 
     The foregoing summary of amendments to the By-Laws is qualified in its entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of Harris' By-Laws, as amended and restated effective October 24, 2008, filed as Exhibit 3(ii) to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference into this Item 5.03.
(d) Exhibits.
     The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3(i)
     HARRIS CORPORATION, a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
     FIRST: That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, resolutions were duly adopted setting forth a proposed amendment to Section 1 of Article FOURTH of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, declaring said amendment to be advisable and directing that said amendment be submitted to the stockholders of the Corporation for approval and adoption. The Board of Directors approved the following amendment to Section 1 of Article FOURTH of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, to read in its entirety as follows:
"FOURTH: Section 1. The total number of shares of all classes of stock which this corporation shall have authority to issue is 501,000,000 shares, of which 500,000,000 shares shall be common stock of the par value of $1 per share and 1,000,000 shares shall be preferred stock without par value."
     SECOND: That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, resolutions were duly adopted setting forth a proposed amendment to Article ELEVENTH of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, declaring said amendment to be advisable and directing that said amendment be submitted to the stockholders of the Corporation for approval and adoption. The Board of Directors approved amendments to Article ELEVENTH of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation so that such Article ELEVENTH shall read in its entirety as follows:
"ELEVENTH: The business and affairs of this corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of Directors consisting of not less than 8 or more than 13 directors, the exact number of directors to be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors.
     "At the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, the successors of the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders and until such directors' successors shall have been elected and qualified. Commencing at the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders, directors shall be elected annually for terms of one year, except that any director in office at the 2009 annual meeting whose term expires at the annual meeting of stockholders in 2010 or 2011 (a "Continuing Classified Director") shall
 
continue to hold office until the end of the term for which such director was elected and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified. At each annual meeting of stockholders after the terms of all Continuing Classified Directors have expired, all directors shall be elected for terms expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders and until such directors' successors shall have been elected and qualified. In no case will a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director. Any vacancy on the Board of Directors that results from an increase in the number of directors may be filled by a majority of the Board of Directors then in office, and any other vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. Any director elected to fill a vacancy not resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall have the same remaining term as that of his predecessor.
     "Any director, or the entire Board of Directors, of this corporation may be removed, with or without cause, by the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors at a meeting of stockholders called for that purpose, except that Continuing Classified Directors may be removed only for cause.
     "Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the holders of any one or more classes or series of preferred or preference stock issued by this corporation shall have the right, voting separately by class or series, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by the terms of this Certificate of Incorporation applicable thereto, and such directors so elected shall not be divided into classes unless expressly provided by such terms.
     "No person (other than a person nominated by or on behalf of the Board of Directors) shall be eligible for election as a director at any annual or special meeting of stockholders unless a written request that his or her name be placed in nomination is received from a stockholder of record by the Secretary of this corporation not less than 30 days prior to the date fixed for the meeting, together with the written consent of such person to serve as a director.
     "No director of this corporation shall be personally liable to this corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, provided that this provision shall not eliminate or limit the liability of a director (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to this corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of Title 8 of the Delaware Code,
 
or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit."
     THIRD: That thereafter, pursuant to the resolutions of the Board of Directors, the proposed amendments were submitted to the stockholders of the Corporation for consideration at the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, upon notice in accordance with Section 222 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, and at such meeting a majority of the outstanding stock entitled to vote thereon was voted in favor of the amendments.
     FOURTH: That said amendments were duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Harris Corporation to be executed on its behalf by Scott T. Mikuen, an authorized officer of the Corporation as of this 28th day of October, 2008.

Exhibit 3(ii)
 
     The registered office of Harris Corporation (the "Company") shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware.
     The Company may also have offices at such other places as the Board of Directors from time to time may determine or the business of the Company may require.
     . All meetings of shareholders for the election of directors or for any other purposes whatsoever shall be held at the office of the Company in the City of Wilmington, Delaware, or elsewhere within or without the State of Delaware, as may be decided upon from time to time by the Board of Directors and indicated in the notice of the meeting.
Section 1. Place of Meeting
     . The annual meeting of the shareholders shall be held on such date as the Board of Directors may determine and at the time as shall be decided by the Board of Directors and indicated in the notice of the meeting. Directors shall be elected thereat and such other business transacted as may be specified in the notice of the meeting, or as may be properly brought before the meeting.
Section 2. Annual Meeting
     . Special meetings of the shareholders may be held on any business day when called by the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors, or a majority of the full Board of Directors acting without a meeting.
Section 3. Special Meetings
     . A written or printed notice of every annual or special meeting of the shareholders stating the time and place and the purposes thereof shall be given to each shareholder entitled to vote thereat and to each shareholder entitled to notice as provided by law, which notice shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the date of the meeting. Such notice shall be deemed given: (i) if mailed, when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to each shareholder at such shareholder's address as it appears on the records of the Company; (ii) if sent by electronic mail, when delivered to an electronic mail address at which the shareholder has consented to receive such notice; and (iii) if posted on an electronic network together with a separate notice to the shareholder of such specific posting, upon the later to occur of (A) such posting and (B) the giving of such separate notice of such posting. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to give written notice of the annual meeting, and of each special meeting when requested so to do by the officer or directors calling such meeting. Any shareholder may waive in writing any notice required to be given by law or under these By-Laws and by attendance or voting at any meeting without protesting the lack of proper notice shall be deemed to have waived notice
Section 4. Notice of Meetings
 
thereof. Notice shall be deemed to have been given to all shareholders of record who share an address if notice is given in accordance with the "householding" rules set forth in Rule 14a-3(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and Section 233 of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
     . A complete list of the shareholders entitled to vote at each meeting of shareholders, arranged in alphabetical order, with the address of each and the number of voting shares held by each, shall be prepared by or at the instance of the Secretary and made available at the location where the meeting is to be held, at least ten (10) days before every meeting, and shall at all times during the usual hours for business in said ten (10) day period and during the time of said meeting be open to examination by any shareholder.
Section 5. Shareholder List
     . At all meetings of shareholders, only such shareholders shall be entitled to vote, in person or by proxy, who appear upon the records of the Company as the holders of shares at the time possessing voting power, or if a record date be fixed as hereinafter provided, those appearing as such on such record date. Each shareholder entitled to vote at a meeting of shareholders may authorize another person or persons to act for such shareholder by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three (3) years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A shareholder may authorize another person or persons to act for such shareholder as proxy by executing a writing authorizing such person or persons to act for such shareholder as proxy or by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided that any such telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission was authorized by the shareholder.
Section 6. Voting and Proxies
     . Except as may otherwise be required by law or by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws, the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote at a shareholders' meeting shall constitute a quorum to hold such meeting; provided, however, that any meeting, whether or not a quorum is present or otherwise, may, by vote of the holders of a majority of the voting shares represented thereat, adjourn from time to time and from place to place in the county wherein said meeting was originally called without notice other than by announcement at such meeting.
Section 7. Quorum and Adjournments
     . (a) The matters to be considered and brought before any annual or special meeting of shareholders of the Company shall be limited to only such matters, including the nomination and election of directors, as shall be brought properly before such meeting in compliance with the procedures set forth in this Section 8.
Section 8. Advance Notice of Shareholder Nominees for Director and Other Shareholder Proposals
     (b) For any matter to be brought properly before any annual meeting of shareholders, the matter must be (i) specified in the notice of the annual meeting given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (ii) otherwise brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) brought before the annual meeting by a shareholder
 
who is a shareholder of record of the Company on the date the notice provided for in this Section 8(b) is delivered to the Secretary of the Company, who is entitled to vote at the annual meeting of shareholders on such matter and who complies with the procedures set forth in this Section 8(b). In addition to any other requirements under applicable law and the Restated Certificate of Incorporation and these By-Laws, written notice (the "Shareholder Notice") of any nomination or other proposal by a shareholder must be timely and any proposal, other than a nomination, must constitute a proper matter for shareholder action. To be timely, the Shareholder Notice must be delivered to the Secretary of the Company at the principal executive office of the Company not less than ninety (90) nor more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the first anniversary date of the annual meeting for the preceding year; provided, however, that if (and only if) the annual meeting is not scheduled to be held within a period that commences thirty (30) days before such anniversary date and ends thirty (30) days after such anniversary date (an annual meeting date outside such period being referred to herein as an "Other Meeting Date"), the Shareholder Notice shall be given in the manner provided herein by the later of the close of business on (i) the date ninety (90) days prior to such Other Meeting Date or (ii) the tenth day following the date such Other Meeting Date is first publicly announced or disclosed.
     A Shareholder Notice must contain the following information: (i) whether the shareholder is providing the notice at the request of a beneficial holder of shares, whether the shareholder, any such beneficial holder or any nominee has any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, or has received any financial assistance, funding or other consideration from any other person with respect to the investment by the shareholder or such beneficial holder in the Company or the matter the Shareholder Notice relates to, and the details thereof, including the name of such other person (the shareholder, any beneficial holder on whose behalf the notice is being delivered, any nominees listed in the notice and any persons with whom such agreement, arrangement or understanding exists or from whom such assistance has been obtained are hereinafter collectively referred to as "Interested Persons"), (ii) the name and address of all Interested Persons, (iii) a complete description of all equity securities and debt instruments, whether held in the form of loans or capital market instruments, of the Company or any of its subsidiaries beneficially owned by all Interested Persons, (iv) whether and the extent to which any hedging, derivative or other transaction is in place or has been entered into within the six months preceding the date of delivery of the Shareholder Notice by or for the benefit of any Interested Person with respect to the Company or its subsidiaries, or any of their respective securities, debt instruments or credit ratings, the effect or intent of which transaction is to give rise to gain or loss as a result of changes in the trading price of such securities or debt instruments or changes in the credit ratings for the Company, its subsidiaries or any of their respective securities or debt instruments (or, more generally, changes in the perceived creditworthiness of the Company or its subsidiaries), or to increase or decrease the voting power of such Interested Person, and if so, a summary of the material terms thereof, and (v) a representation that the shareholder is a holder of record of stock of the Company that would be entitled to vote at the meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose the matter set forth in the Shareholder Notice. As used herein, "beneficially owned" with respect to securities shall mean all securities which such person is deemed to beneficially own pursuant to Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act. The Shareholder Notice shall be updated not later than 10 days after the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to vote at the meeting to provide any material changes in the foregoing information as of the record date.
 
Any Shareholder Notice relating to the nomination of directors must also contain (i) the information regarding each nominee required by paragraphs (a), (e) and (f) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (or the corresponding provisions of any successor regulation), (ii) each nominee's signed consent to serve as a director of the Company if elected, and (iii) information as to whether each nominee is eligible for consideration as an independent director under the relevant standards contemplated by Item 407(a) of Regulation S-K (or the corresponding provisions of any successor regulation). The Company may also require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information, including completion of the Company's directors questionnaire, as it may reasonably require to determine whether the nominee would be considered "independent" as a director or as a member of the audit committee of the Board of Directors under the various rules and standards applicable to the Company. Any Shareholder Notice with respect to a matter other than the nomination of directors must contain (i) the text of the proposal to be presented, including the text of any resolutions to be proposed for consideration by shareholders and (ii) a brief written statement of the reasons such shareholder favors the proposal.
     Notwithstanding anything in this Section 8(b) to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Company at the next annual meeting is increased and either all of the nominees for director at the next annual meeting or the size of the increased Board of Directors is not publicly announced or disclosed by the Company at least one hundred (100) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a Shareholder Notice shall also be considered timely hereunder, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary of the Company at the principal executive office of the Company not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the first date all of such nominees or the size of the increased Board of Directors shall have been publicly announced or disclosed.
     (c) For any matter to be brought properly before any special meeting of shareholders, the matter must be set forth in the Company's notice of the meeting. In the event that the Company calls a special meeting of shareholders for the purpose of electing one or more persons to the Board of Directors, any shareholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Company's notice of the meeting, if the Shareholder Notice required by Section 8(b) hereof shall be delivered to the Secretary of the Company at the principal executive office of the Company not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which the date of the special meeting and either the names of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting or the number of directors to be elected is publicly announced or disclosed.
     (d) For purposes of this Section 8, a matter shall be deemed to have been "publicly announced or disclosed" if such matter is disclosed in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or a comparable national news or wire service or in a document publicly filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     (e) In no event shall the adjournment of an annual meeting or special meeting or the postponement of any meeting that does not require a change in the record date for such meeting, or any announcement thereof, commence a new period for the giving of notice as provided in this Section 8. This Section 8 shall not (i) affect the rights of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals made pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) apply to the election of directors selected by or pursuant to the provisions of Article FOURTH, Section 3 of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock of the Company having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect directors under specified circumstances.
 
     (f) The person presiding at any meeting of shareholders, in addition to making any other determinations that may be appropriate to the conduct of the meeting, shall have the power and duty to determine whether notice of nominees and other matters proposed to be brought before a meeting has been duly given in the manner provided in this Section 8 and, if not so given, shall direct and declare at the meeting that such nominees and other matters are out of order and shall not be considered. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 8, if the shareholder or a qualified representative of the shareholder does not appear at the annual or special meeting of shareholders of the Company to present any such nomination, or make any such proposal, such nomination or proposal shall be disregarded, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Company.
     . The Board of Directors of the Company may adopt by resolution such rules, regulations and procedures for the conduct of meetings of shareholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with applicable law and such rules and regulations adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of each meeting of shareholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts, including causing an adjournment of such meeting, as, in the judgment of such Chairman, are appropriate. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the Chairman of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (a) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting, including fixing the time for opening and closing the polls for voting on each matter; (b) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (c) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to shareholders of record of the Company, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the Chairman shall permit; (d) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (e) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. Unless, and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the meeting, meetings of shareholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with rules of parliamentary procedure.
Section 9. Conduct of Meetings
     . Meetings of shareholders shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or in his or her absence by the Chief Executive Officer, or in the absence of the foregoing persons by a Chairman designated by the Board of Directors, or, in the absence of any such designation, by a Chairman chosen at the meeting. The Secretary, or in the absence of the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, shall act as the secretary of the meeting, but in the absence of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary, the Chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Section 10. Organization of Meetings
 
     . The Board of Directors shall consist of not less than eight nor more than thirteen members as may be determined by the Board of Directors. After any such determination, the number so determined shall continue as the authorized number of members of the Board until the same shall be changed as aforesaid. Directors need not be shareholders.
Section 1. Number
     . Except as may be otherwise required by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast (meaning the number of shares voted "for" a nominee must exceed the number of shares voted "against" such nominee) at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided that the directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast (instead of by votes cast for or against a nominee) at any meeting at which a quorum is present for which (i) the Secretary of the Company receives a notice in compliance with the applicable requirements for shareholder nominations for director set forth in these By-Laws and (ii) such proposed nomination has not been withdrawn by such shareholder on or prior to the tenth day preceding the date the Company first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the shareholders.
Section 2. Manner of Election
     . Each director shall hold office for the term set forth in Article ELEVENTH of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation and until his or her successor shall be elected and qualified; subject, however, to prior resignation, death or removal as provided by law. Any director may resign at any time by oral statement to that effect made at a meeting of the Board of Directors, to be effective upon its acceptance by the Board, or in writing to that effect delivered to the Secretary, to be effective upon its acceptance or at the time specified in such writing. Any vacancy on the Board of Directors that results from an increase in the number of directors shall be filled by a majority of the Board of Directors then in office, and any other vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors shall be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. Any director elected to fill a vacancy not resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall have the same remaining term as that of his predecessor.
Section 3. Tenure; Vacancies
     . Immediately after each annual meeting of the shareholders or special meeting held in lieu thereof, the newly elected Board of Directors, if a quorum is present, shall hold an organization meeting for the purpose of electing officers and transacting any other business. Notice of such meeting need not be given. If, for any reason, said organization meeting is not held at such time, a special meeting for such purpose shall be held as soon thereafter as practicable.
Section 4. Organization Meeting
     . Regular meetings of the Board of Directors for the transaction of any business may be held at such times and places as may be determined by the Board of Directors. The Secretary shall give to each director at least five (5) days written notice of each such meeting.
Section 5. Regular Meetings
     . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time and place upon call by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or a majority of the Directors. Notice of each such meeting shall be given to each
Section 6. Special Meetings
 
director by letter, telegram or telephone or in person not less than two (2) days prior to such meeting; provided, however, that such notice shall be deemed to have been waived by the directors attending or voting at any such meeting, without protesting the lack of proper notice, and may be waived in writing or by telegram by any director either before or after such meeting. Unless otherwise indicated in the notice thereof, any business may be transacted at such meeting.
     . At all meetings of the Board of Directors a majority of the directors in office at the time shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but in no case shall such quorum be less than one-third of the total authorized number of directors.
Section 7. Quorum
     . If so determined by the Board of Directors, all or any members of the Board of Directors or of any committee of the Board who are not Company employees shall be compensated for their services in such capacities either a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board or of such committee or such other amount as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. Compensation may be paid in cash and in the Company's stock and stock equivalents. Directors may be reimbursed for expenses reasonably incurred by them in attending such meetings.
Section 8. Compensation
     The Board of Directors may, by resolution or resolutions passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate or eliminate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Company. The Board of Directors may designate one or more members as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. Any such committee, to the extent provided in said resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors and to the extent permitted by Delaware law shall have and may exercise the powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Company, and may have power to authorize the seal of the Company to be affixed to all papers which may require it. Such committee or committees shall have such name or names as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors. Unless otherwise provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors designating the committees, a Board committee may create one or more subcommittees, each subcommittee to consist of one or more members of the Board committee, and delegate to a subcommittee any or all of the powers and authority of the Board committee.
     . The officers of the Company shall be elected by the Board of Directors at their organization meeting or any other meeting. The Board of Directors shall elect the executive officers of the Company which may include a Chairman of the Board, President, and one or more Vice Presidents (any one or more of whom may be designated as Executive Vice Presidents, or as Senior Vice Presidents or by any other designations). In addition thereto, the officers shall include a Controller or Principal Accounting Officer, a General Counsel, a Secretary and a Treasurer. In their discretion the
Section 1. Officers Designated
 
Board of Directors may elect one or more Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers and any other additional officers. The Chairman of the Board shall be elected from among the directors. The other officers may but need not be elected from among the directors. Any two offices may be held by the same person, but in any case where the action of more than one officer is required no one person shall act in more than one capacity.
     . The officers of the Company shall hold office until the next organization meeting of the Board of Directors and until their respective successors are chosen and qualified, except in case of resignation, death or removal. The Board of Directors may remove any officer at any time with or without cause by the vote of the majority of the directors in office at the time. A vacancy in any office may be filled by election by the Board of Directors.
Section 2. Tenure of Office
     . The powers and duties of the officers shall be exercised in all cases subject to such directions as the Board of Directors may see fit to give. The respective powers and duties hereinafter set forth are subject to alteration by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is also authorized to delegate the duties of any officer to any other officer, employee or committee and to require the performance of duties in addition to those provided for herein. Subject to such directions, if any, as the Board of Directors may give from time to time, the chief executive officers of the Company are authorized to establish and to modify from time to time an organization plan defining the respective duties and functions of the officers of the Company.
Section 3. Powers and Duties of Officers in General
     . The Chairman of the Board shall preside at meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors.
Section 4. Chairman of the Board
     . The Chief Executive Officer shall be either the Chairman of the Board and/or the President, as the Board of Directors so designates, and he or she shall have general responsibility for the major functions of the business of the Company and shall initiate and develop broad Company policies.
Section 5. Chief Executive Officer
     . In the absence or disability of the Chief Executive Officer, the President shall perform the Chief Executive Officer's duties. In the absence or disability of the Chief Executive Officer and the President, the Vice Presidents, in the order designated by the Board of Directors, shall perform the Chief Executive Officer's duties. If so determined by the Board of Directors, one Vice President may be designated as manager of specific sectors, divisions, districts or such other unit or as being in charge of specific functions, another as Vice President in Charge of Sales, and other Vice Presidents as managers of specified divisions or sales districts of the Company or as being in charge of specified functions.
Section 6. President; Vice Presidents
     . The Controller or Principal Accounting Officer, General Counsel, the Secretary, and the Treasurer shall perform such duties as are indicated by their respective titles, subject to the provisions of Section 3 of this Article. The Secretary shall have the custody of the corporate seal.
Section 7. Controller or Principal Accounting Officer, General Counsel, Secretary, and Treasurer
 
     . All other officers shall have such powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, or, in the absence of their action, by the chief executive officers of the Company or by the respective officers having supervision over them.
Section 8. Other Officers
     . The Board of Directors is authorized to determine, or to provide the method of determining, or to empower a committee of its members to determine, the compensation of all officers.
Section 9. Compensation
     . If so requested and authorized by the Board of Directors, the Company shall furnish a fidelity bond in such sum and with such security as the Board of Directors may require.
Section 10. Bond
     . The Board of Directors is authorized to determine or provide the method of determining the manner in which deeds, contracts and other obligations and instruments of the Company shall be signed. However, persons doing business with the Company shall be entitled to rely upon the action of the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Secretary, the Treasurer, the Controller or Principal Accounting Officer or General Counsel in executing contracts and other obligations and instruments, of the Company as having been duly authorized. The Board of Directors of the Company is authorized to designate or provide the method of designating depositaries of the funds of the Company and to determine or provide the method of determining the manner in which checks, notes, bills of exchange and similar instruments shall be signed, countersigned or endorsed.
Section 11. Signing Checks and Other Instruments
     The Company shall indemnify to the full extent permitted by law any person made or threatened to be made a party to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the Company, is or was a director, officer, trustee, member, stockholder, partner, incorporator or liquidator of a Subsidiary of the Company, or serves or served at the request of the Company as a director, officer, trustee, member, stockholder, partner, incorporator or liquidator of or in any other capacity for any other enterprise. Expenses, including attorneys' fees, incurred by any such person in defending any such action, suit or proceeding shall be paid or reimbursed by the Company promptly upon demand by such person and, if any such demand is made in advance of the final disposition of any such action, suit or proceeding, promptly upon receipt by the Company of an undertaking of such person to repay such expenses if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company. The rights provided to any person by this by-law shall be enforceable against the Company by such person, who shall be presumed to have relied upon it in serving or continuing to serve as a director or officer or in such other capacity as provided above. In addition, the rights provided to any person by this by-law shall survive the termination of such person as any such director, officer, trustee, member, stockholder, partner, incorporator or liquidator and, insofar as such person served at the request of the Company as a director, officer, trustee, member, stockholder, partner, incorporator or liquidator of or in any other capacity for any other enterprise, shall survive the termination of such request as to service prior to termination of such request. No amendment of this by-law shall impair the rights of any person arising at any time with respect to events occurring prior to such amendment.
 
     Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article VI, except for proceedings to enforce rights provided in this Article VI, the Company shall not be obligated under this Article VI to provide any indemnification or any payment or reimbursement of expenses to any director, officer or other person in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person (which shall not include counterclaims or crossclaims initiated by others) unless the Board of Directors has authorized or consented to such proceeding (or part thereof) in a resolution adopted by the Board.
     For purposes of this by-law, the term "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other entity in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, a majority of the economic or voting ownership interest; the term "other enterprise" shall include any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, association or other unincorporated organization or other entity and any employee benefit plan; the term "officer," when used with respect to the Company, shall refer to any officer elected by or appointed pursuant to authority granted by the Board of Directors of the Company pursuant to Article V of these By-Laws, when used with respect to a Subsidiary or other enterprise that is a corporation, shall refer to any person elected or appointed pursuant to the by-laws of such Subsidiary or other enterprise or chosen in such manner as is prescribed by the by-laws of such Subsidiary or other enterprise or determined by the Board of Directors of such Subsidiary or other enterprise, and when used with respect to a Subsidiary or other enterprise that is not a corporation or is organized in a foreign jurisdiction, the term "officer" shall include in addition to any officer of such entity, any person serving in a similar capacity or as the manager of such entity; service "at the request of the Company" shall include service as a director or officer of the Company which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director or officer with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries shall be deemed to be indemnifiable expenses; and action by a person with respect to an employee benefit plan which such person reasonably believes to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of such plan shall be deemed to be action not opposed to the best interests of the Company.
     To the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, the Company may provide to (i) any one or more employees and other agents of the Company, (ii) any one or more officers, employees and other agents of any Subsidiary and (iii) any one or more directors, officers, employees and other agents of any other enterprise, rights of indemnification and to receive payment or reimbursement of expenses, including attorneys' fees, that are similar to the rights conferred in this Article VI on directors and officers of the Company or any Subsidiary or other enterprise. Any such rights shall have the same force and effect as they would have if they were conferred in this Article VI.
     Nothing in this Article VI shall limit the power of the Company or the Board of Directors to provide rights of indemnification and to make payment and reimbursement of expenses, including attorneys' fees, to directors, officers, employees, agents and other persons otherwise than pursuant to this Article VI.
 
     The corporate seal, circular in form, shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Company and the words "Corporate Seal--Delaware."
     The Board of Directors may close the stock transfer books of the Company for a period not exceeding sixty (60) days preceding the date of any meeting of the shareholders, or the date for the payment of any dividend, or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of shares shall go into effect; provided, however, that in lieu of closing the stock transfer books as aforesaid, the Board of Directors may fix in advance a date, not exceeding sixty (60) days preceding the date of any meeting of shareholders, or the date for the payment of any dividend, or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of shares shall go into effect, as a record date for the determination of the shareholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, any such meeting and any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any such dividend, or to any such allotment of rights, or to exercise the rights in respect of any such change, conversion or exchange of shares, and in such case such shareholders, and only such shareholders as shall be shareholders of record on the date so fixed, shall be entitled to such notice of, and to vote at, such meeting and any adjournment thereof, or to receive payment of such dividend or to receive such allotment of rights or to exercise such rights as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the Company after any such record date fixed as aforesaid.
     . The shares of stock of the Company shall be represented by certificates in such form as the appropriate officers of the Company may from time to time prescribe; provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of stock of the Company shall be uncertificated shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing or the adoption of such a resolution or resolutions by the Board of Directors, each holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled, upon request, to a certificate representing such shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to any share represented by a certificate theretofore issued until such certificate is surrendered to the Company. Share certificates shall be numbered and registered in a share register as they are issued. Share certificates shall exhibit the name of the registered holder and the number and class of shares and the series, if any, represented thereby and the par value of each such share or a statement that each such share is without par value, as the case may be. Except as otherwise provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares and the rights and obligations of the holders of shares represented by certificates of the same class and series shall be identical.
Section 1. Certificates; Uncertificated Shares
 
     . Every share certificate shall be signed, in the name of the Company, by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President and countersigned, in the name of the Company, by the Corporate Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer and shall be sealed with the Company's corporate seal. Such signatures and seal may be facsimile, engraved or printed. The Board of Directors may appoint one or more transfer agents or transfer clerks and one or more registrars and may require any or all certificates representing shares of stock to bear the signature or signatures of any of them. Where a certificate is signed (a) by a transfer agent or an assistant or co-transfer agent, (b) by a transfer clerk or (c) by a registrar or co-registrar, the signature thereon of any authorized signatory may be facsimile. Where a certificate is signed by a registrar or co-registrar, the signature of any transfer agent or assistant or co-transfer agent thereon may be by facsimile signature of the authorized signatory of such transfer agent or assistant or co-transfer agent. In case any officer or officers of the Company who have signed, or whose facsimile, engraved or printed signature or signatures have been used on, any such certificate or certificates shall cease to be such officer or officers, whether because of death, resignation or otherwise, before such certificate or certificates have been delivered by the Company, such certificate or certificates may, nevertheless, be issued and delivered as though the person or persons who signed such certificate or certificates or whose facsimile, engraved or printed signature or signatures have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer or officers of the Company.
Section 2. Signatures on Certificates
     . In case of loss, theft or destruction of any certificate representing shares of stock or other securities of the Company, another may be issued, or uncertificated shares may be issued, in its place upon satisfactory proof of such loss, theft or destruction and upon the giving of a satisfactory bond of indemnity to the Company and to the transfer agents, transfer clerks and registrars, if any, of such stock or other securities, as the case may be.
Section 3. Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates; Issuance of New Certificates
     . Subject to valid transfer restrictions and stop-transfer orders, upon surrender to the Company, or a transfer agent, transfer clerk or registrar of the Company, of a certificate representing shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, the Company may issue a new certificate or new equivalent uncertificated shares, as the case may be, or in the case of uncertificated shares, upon request, a certificate representing, or other evidence of, such new equivalent uncertificated shares, to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books. Upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the holder of uncertificated shares, the Company shall cancel such uncertificated shares and issue new equivalent uncertificated shares, or, upon such holder's request, a certificate representing, or other evidence of, such new equivalent uncertificated shares, to the person entitled thereto, and record the transaction upon its books. In no event shall a transfer of shares affect the right of the Company to pay any dividend upon the stock to the holder of record thereof for all purposes, and no transfer shall be valid, except between the parties thereto, until such transfer shall have been made upon the books of the Company.
Section 4. Transfer of Shares
 
     . The Company and its transfer agents, transfer clerks and registrars, if any, shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares as the holder in fact thereof and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claims to, or interest in, such shares on the part of any other person and shall not be liable for any registration or transfer of shares which are registered, or to be registered, in the name of a fiduciary or the nominee of a fiduciary unless made with actual knowledge that a fiduciary, or nominee of a fiduciary, is committing a breach of trust in requesting such registration or transfer, or with knowledge of such facts that its participation therein amounts to bad faith.
Section 5. Registered Shareholders
     The fiscal year of the Company shall end on the Friday nearest June 30 unless and until the Board of Directors shall otherwise determine.
     These By-Laws may be made or altered in any respect in whole or in part by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote thereon at any annual or special meeting of the shareholders, if notice of the proposed alteration or change to be made is properly brought before the meeting under these By-Laws. The By-Laws may also be made or altered in any respect in whole or in part, by the affirmative vote of the majority of the directors then comprising the Board of Directors.


