FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20090302102807.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On February 27, 2009, the Board of Directors of Harris Corporation (the "Company") approved a new $600 million share repurchase program. The new share repurchase program is in addition to the Companys existing share repurchase authorization of $600 million, which currently has a remaining authorization of approximately $50 million. The new repurchase program does not have a stated expiration date. Share repurchases are expected to be funded with available cash. Repurchases under the new program may be made through open market purchases, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions, or any combination thereof. The timing, volume and nature of share repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors, are at the discretion of the Companys management and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. On March 2, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing the new share repurchase program. The full text of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is filed herewith: 99.1 Press Release, issued by Harris Corporation on March 2, 2009.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE                                                                                                                                   Exhibit 99.1
 The Board of Directors of Harris Corporation (NYSE:HRS), an international communications and information technology company, has approved a new $600 million share repurchase program. The share repurchase program announced today is in addition to the company's existing share repurchase authorization of $600 million, which currently has a remaining authorization of about $50 million.
MELBOURNE, Florida, March 2, 2009
"We are very pleased to announce this new share repurchase program," said Howard L. Lance, chairman, president, and CEO. "Our new share repurchase program recognizes our solid financial position and continuing strong cash flow from operations. We expect to repurchase shares in balance with market conditions and the company's operational requirements, including continuing to invest in both internal growth initiatives and acquisitions."
Share repurchases will be funded with available cash. Repurchases under the program may be made through open market purchases, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions, or any combination thereof. The timing, volume, and nature of share repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws, and other factors, are at the discretion of the company's management, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
Harris is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 150 countries. Headquartered in Melbourne, Florida, the company has annual revenue of $5.4 billion and 16,000 employees  including nearly 7,000 engineers and scientists. Harris is dedicated to developing best-in-class assured communications; products, systems, and services. Additional information about Harris Corporation is available at www.harris.com.
About Harris Corporation
Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations, assumptions and estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Such statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The company cautions investors that forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those matters expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Further information relating to factors that may impact the Company's results and forward-looking statements are disclosed in the Company's filings with the SEC. The forward-looking statements contained in this release are made as of the date of this release, and Harris disclaims any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements
Investor Relations inquiries: Pamela Padgett at 321-727-9383, or pamela.padgett@harris.com
Media inquiries: Jim Burke at 321-727-9131, or jim.burke@harris.com
For additional information, contact Harris Corporation at .
webmaster@harris.com


