FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20090505162634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     
The information contained in this Current Report on
Form 8-K
that is furnished under this Item 2.02 and 7.01, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and 7.01 of
Form 8-K
and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section. The information contained in this Current Report on
Form 8-K
that is furnished under this Item 2.02 and 7.01, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     On May 5, 2009, Harris Corporation ("") issued a press release announcing, among other things, its results of operations and financial condition as of and for its third quarter of fiscal 2009, updated guidance regarding expected earnings and revenue for fiscal 2009 and initial guidance regarding expected earnings and revenue for fiscal 2010. The full text of the press release and related financial tables is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Harris
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
     The press release includes a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures, including net income, net income (or earnings) per diluted share and revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2009 and the third quarter of fiscal 2008, guidance for earnings per diluted share from continuing operations in fiscal 2009, earnings per diluted share from continuing operations in fiscal 2008, the percentage increase in guidance for earnings per diluted share from continuing operations in fiscal 2009 compared with earnings per diluted share from continuing operations in fiscal 2008, the percentage increase in guidance for revenue from continuing operations in fiscal 2009 compared with revenue from continuing operations in fiscal 2008, guidance for earnings per diluted share in fiscal 2010, and the percentage increase in guidance for earnings per diluted share in fiscal 2010 compared with guidance for earnings per diluted share from continuing operations in fiscal 2009, in each case excluding, as the case may be, the results of the Harris Stratex Networks segment as if the segment were a discontinued operation and certain costs and expenses associated with the acquisitions of Multimax Incorporated (""), Zandar Technologies plc (""), the Tyco Electronics Wireless Systems business ("") and Crucial Security, Inc. (""). A "non-GAAP financial measure" is generally defined as a numerical measure of a company's historical or future performance that excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments, so as to be different from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (""). Net income, net income (or earnings) per diluted share and revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2009 and the third quarter of fiscal 2008, guidance for earnings per diluted share from continuing operations in fiscal 2009, earnings per diluted share from continuing operations in fiscal 2008, the percentage increase in guidance for earnings per diluted share from continuing operations in fiscal 2009 compared with earnings per diluted share from continuing operations in fiscal 2008, the percentage increase in guidance for revenue from continuing operations in fiscal 2009 compared with revenue from continuing operations in fiscal 2008, guidance for earnings per diluted share in fiscal 2010, and the percentage increase in guidance for earnings per diluted share in fiscal 2010 compared with guidance for earnings per diluted share from continuing operations in fiscal 2009, in each case excluding, as the case may be, the results of the Harris Stratex Networks segment as if the segment were a discontinued operation and certain costs and expenses associated with the acquisitions of Multimax, Zandar, Wireless Systems and CSI, are financial measures that are not defined by GAAP and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, income, income per diluted share, and other financial measures on a GAAP basis. Harris has included in its press release a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in the press release to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Multimax
Zandar
Wireless Systems
CSI
GAAP
     Harris management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that could have a disproportionate positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Harris management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze trends in Harris' business and to understand Harris' performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management compensation purposes. Please refer to Harris' financial statements and accompanying footnotes for additional information and for a presentation of results in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     (d) Exhibits.
          The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
               99.1     Press Release, issued by Harris Corporation on May 5, 2009 (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01).
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 5, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Harris Corporation (NYSE:HRS) reported GAAP net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2009 of $114 million, or $.86 per diluted share, compared with GAAP net income of $108 million, or $.78 per diluted share, in the prior-year quarter. Revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2009 was $1.36 billion, compared with $1.33 billion for the prior-year quarter.
MELBOURNE, Florida, May 5, 2009
Excluding the results of Harris Stratex Networks, Inc., net income was $136 million, or $1.02 per diluted share, for the third quarter of fiscal 2009, compared with net income of $106 million, or $.78 per diluted share, in the prior-year quarter. Revenue on the same basis increased 5 percent to $1.21 billion in the third quarter, compared with $1.15 billion for the prior-year quarter.
Orders were $1.0 billion for the third quarter, declining 27 percent compared with $1.4 billion in the prior-year quarter, primarily as a result of significantly lower Department of Defense (DoD) orders in the RF Communications segment and the impact of the weak global economy on the Broadcast Communications segment.
Harris announced on March 31, 2009, that its Board of Directors approved the spin-off to its shareholders of all the shares of Harris Stratex Networks owned by Harris, and that the distribution will take place in the form of a taxable pro rata dividend of Harris Stratex Networks shares payable on May 27, 2009. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures is provided in Table 5, along with the accompanying notes.
"Our company performed very well in the third quarter with higher revenue and strong earnings," said Howard L. Lance, chairman, president and CEO. "However, order rates declined in the quarter and are expected to remain weak in the near-term, which will have a significant impact on expected results in fiscal 2010. Beyond fiscal 2010, our company is well-positioned to return to growth. We will continue to invest in acquisitions and new products to expand into adjacent markets where our advanced technologies and capabilities are discriminators. For example, feedback from our customers that have begun fielding our new Falcon lll manpack radios has been overwhelmingly positive. The Falcon III 117G is JTRS-approved and offers the most advanced capabilities available in the market, including wideband networking. We are confident that the radios will be widely fielded in both the U.S and international markets."
Harris now expects non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations in fiscal 2009 to be at the low end of its previous guidance range of $3.93 to $4.03 per diluted share, excluding acquisition-related costs ($3.88 to $3.98 on a GAAP basis), representing a year-over-year increase of approximately 17 percent, compared with non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations in fiscal 2008 of $3.35 per diluted share ($3.33 on a GAAP basis). Revenue from continuing operations for fiscal 2009 is now expected to increase by approximately 7 percent compared with fiscal 2008.
Revenue and Earnings Guidance
 
Initial non-GAAP earnings guidance in fiscal 2010 is expected to be in a range of $3.10 to $3.40 per diluted share, a 16 to 21 percent decline compared to the low end of fiscal 2009 guidance. Revenue in fiscal 2010 is expected to be in a range of $4.9 billion to $5.1 billion. Fiscal 2010 earnings per share and revenue guidance include the expected full-year contribution of the Wireless Systems and Crucial Security acquisitions and exclude acquisition-related costs.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures is provided in Table 7, along with the accompanying notes.
Third quarter revenue in the RF Communications segment was $439 million, an increase of 12 percent, compared with $392 million in the prior-year quarter. Operating income in the third quarter was $151 million, and operating margin continued to be strong at 34.5 percent of revenue.
RF Communications
Revenue growth was driven by significantly higher international sales, which represented 43 percent of total revenue in the quarter, compared with 27 percent for all of fiscal 2008. Revenue in the U.S. market remained strong, but declined compared to the prior-year quarter. Significant deliveries in the quarter were made to Norway, Pakistan, the Philippines, Hungary, Belgium, Iraq, Kyrgyzstan, the Czech Republic, Armenia, Canada, Ukraine, and Afghanistan. In the U.S. market, significant deliveries were made to the U.S. Army, Marine Corps, and Air Force.
Year-to-date orders through the third quarter of fiscal 2009 were $807 million, down 37 percent, compared with $1.28 billion for the comparable prior-year period. Full-year fiscal 2009 orders are expected to be $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion, well below expected revenue, resulting in a segment book-to-bill ratio of substantially below 1:1. As a result, segment organic revenue in fiscal 2010 is now expected to be significantly lower than fiscal 2009.
The reduced outlook results from a combination of factors, including the delay of two significant orders. The company had expected a $250 million order from the Iraq Ministry of Defence for HF radios, which is now expected to be received in smaller increments over several years. Also expected was a $500 million ceiling IDIQ (Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity) contract from the U.S. Army for the purpose of procuring Falcon II AN/PRC-117F and the new Falcon III AN/PRC-117G multiband radios. The IDIQ was awarded to Harris in the third quarter, with an initial $148 million order for 117Gs. Subsequently, it was determined by the Army that this IDIQ contract could not be used to procure 117G radios, and the order was cancelled. This decision may result in significant delays in 117G orders.
 
In addition, pressure on DoD budgets caused by the global economic crisis and deficit spending, as well as the lack of clarity surrounding funding priorities within the new administration, are slowing DoD procurements for many defense products and systems, including tactical radios for modernization programs. For Harris, the slower procurement environment has been compounded by reduced urgency for radio systems to support operational requirements in Iraq, which has been only partially offset by additional requirements for Afghanistan.
In the international market, demand remains robust and should continue to drive significant international revenue growth. Communications modernization and standardization programs by U.S. allies are expected to continue. Harris provides Falcon tactical radios to more than 100 countries.
"In spite of the near-term decline, longer-term growth prospects for the business remain very positive in both U.S. and international markets," Lance said. "RF Communications will benefit from positive long-term market trends, a competitive position that is unmatched, and an industry-leading new product portfolio." For example, the Falcon lll manpack radio is the first JTRS-approved tactical radio system that provides wideband mobile ad-hoc networked communications. The radio has been fielded by all services of the U.S. Department of Defense and several international allies. The radio supports secure, high-bandwidth communications on-the-move, delivering an evolving picture of the battlefield in real time.
Harris continued to expand its addressable markets through its international integrated communications systems offering. The company received a $46 million order in the third quarter from the government of the United Arab Emirates for an integrated communications system incorporating Falcon IIradios, Falcon III high-capacity data radios (HCDRs), tactical broadband global area network (BGAN) satellite communications terminals, and command and control capabilities. Significant international orders in the quarter were also received from Poland and Hungary.
New orders in the U.S. reflected the progress Harris is making with its customers to field larger quantities of the company's new JTRS-approved Falcon IIIradios that provide multimission capability and new capabilities such as wideband networking for high-bandwidth communications on-the-move. The U.S. Air Force placed an $18 million order for the new Falcon III 117G wideband networking radio, which includes a Remote Operated Video Enhanced Receiver (ROVER) interoperable mode that provides battlefield airmen the ability to receive live video directly from UAVs. Also in the quarter, over $60 million in orders for Falcon IIImultiband handheld and vehicular radios were received from multiple DoD customers.
On April 16, Harris announced a definitive agreement to acquire the Tyco Electronics Wireless Systems business (formerly known as M/A-COM), an established provider of mission-critical wireless communications systems for law enforcement, fire and rescue, and public service organizations. Wireless Systems had revenue of $463 million for its fiscal year ending September 26, 2008, and addresses a growing $9 billion global market for public safety communications. The acquisition is expected to close by the end of June 2009. Wireless Systems will operate as the Public Safety business unit under the Harris RF Communications segment.
 
The Government Communications Systems segment reported fiscal 2009 third quarter revenue of $649 million, a 7 percent increase compared with $608 million in the prior-year quarter. Operating income in the third quarter was $74 million, and operating margin was a strong 11.4 percent. Operating income in the prior-year quarter was $21 million and was impacted by a $47 million charge for commercial satellite reflector programs. Seven of the ten commercial reflectors under contract have now been shipped to customers.
Government Communications Systems
Revenue increased in all four of the segment's businesses: Defense Programs, National Intelligence Programs, Civil Programs and IT Services. Revenue growth was primarily driven by: the FAA Telecommunications Infrastructure (FTI) program, which has expanded to include the FTI Microwave program in Alaska; a number of classified programs; the Global Geospatial Intelligence (GGI) program for the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency; sales of surveillance equipment from the company's Wireless Products Group (WPG); the U.S. Navy Commercial Broadband Satellite Program; and the Navy/Marine Corps Intranet (NMCI) IT services program.
The ramping of several recent contract awards in the segment's new Healthcare Solutions business also contributed to higher revenue, including a significant multi-million-dollar, ten-year contract with Health First, Inc., a Florida-based healthcare provider. Harris will provide network management and IT services for its enterprise-wide operations. The contract includes software and hardware support, 24/7 network operations center, help desk, training, and network security services. Also, Harris has joined forces with a business unit of Siemens Healthcare to provide solutions critical for Picture Archiving and Communications Systems (PACS) that support business continuity during the recovery from natural and man-made disasters.
Following the close of the quarter, Harris was awarded a 10-year, $600 million contract for the U.S. Army Modernization of Enterprise Terminals (MET) program. The new satellite communications terminals will represent the worldwide backbone for high-priority military communications and missile defense systems and support Internet Protocol (IP) and Dedicated Circuit Connectivity within the Global Information Grid (GIG), providing critical reach-back capability for the warfighter.
On April 16, 2009, Harris announced its acquisition of Crucial Security, Inc., a Washington, D.C.-area provider of mission-enabling engineering solutions that address both offensive and defensive IT security challenges for federal law enforcement and other U.S. government agencies. The acquisition expands Harris capabilities and customer footprint in the cyber security market.
 
Third quarter revenue in the Broadcast Communications segment was $132 million, declining 17 percent compared with $159 million in the prior-year quarter. Operating income was $2 million in the third quarter compared with $7 million in the prior-year quarter. The global recession and postponement of capital projects further weakened demand. However, the impact of lower revenue on operating performance in the third quarter was mitigated by on-going cost-reduction actions.
Broadcast Communications
Revenue declined in both U.S. and international markets and was lower primarily as a result of declining sales in Infrastructure and Networking Solutions where the impact of the global market softness was most significant. Transmission Systems sales were modestly lower as a result of softness in the global radio market. Media and Workflow sales were flat, with weakness in U.S. and international traffic systems, offset by higher sales of media server products.
At the recent National Association of Broadcasters show in Las Vegas, Harris made several announcements related to important new growth initiatives for the segment. Harris will begin a field trial with McDonald's this month to launch the fast food chain's unique, branded TV channel. The field trial includes 20 restaurants around the country and will feature Harris Digital Signage solutions to manage, monitor and play out digital broadcast-quality video content for the McDonald's Channel. The systems will be designed and managed through a collaborative effort between Harris Broadcast Communications and the Harris IT Services business within the Government Communications Systems segment.
In another breakthrough application, Harris has signed with the National Basketball Association Orlando Magic to create a first-of-its-kind advanced media workflow in the team's new arena that will be completed in 2010. The in-arena network will combine IPTV and digital signage and will be built around file-based workflows that merge broadcast technology with IT infrastructure. The systems will be designed and managed by Harris Broadcast Communications and Harris IT Services.
Harris Stratex Networks, Inc. (NASDAQ:HSTX) revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2009 was $158 million, a decrease of 11 percent compared with $178 million in the prior-year quarter. The segment reported an operating loss of $34 million in the quarter as a result of impairment charges of $33 million related to the acceleration towards a common IP-based technology platform and a $2 million write-off of in-process research and development related to an acquisition.
Harris Stratex Networks, Inc.
Harris will host a conference call today at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time (ET) to discuss its third quarter fiscal 2009 financial results. The dial-in number for the teleconference is (913) 312-1492 and the access code is 3442695. Please allow at least 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time to connect to the teleconference. Harris encourages you to listen via webcast, which will be broadcast live at . A replay of the teleconference will be available beginning at 8:30 p.m. ET on May 5 and will run until midnight ET on Tuesday, May 12. To access the replay, please call (719) 457-0820, access code 3442695. A recording of the call will also be available on the Harris website beginning at 7:00 p.m. ET on Tuesday, May 5.
www.harris.com/conference-call
 
Harris is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 150 countries. Headquartered in Melbourne, Florida, the company has annual revenue of $5.4 billion and 16,000 employees  including nearly 7,000 engineers and scientists. Harris is dedicated to developing best-in-class products, systems, and services. Additional information about Harris Corporation is available at .
About Harris Corporation
assured communications
www.harris.com
This press release contains non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the SEC, including net income, net income per diluted share and revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2009 and the third quarter of fiscal 2008, and net income per diluted share and revenue for fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, in each case excluding the results of Harris Stratex Networks, and fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010 guidance excluding acquisition-related costs. Harris management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that may, or could, have a disproportionately positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze Harris business trends and to understand Harris performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting, and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management compensation purposes. Any analysis of non-GAAP financial measures should be used only in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
.
Attachments:
Financial Statements (seven tables)
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations, assumptions, and estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Such statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements in this release include but are not limited to: earnings and revenue guidance for fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010; the potential value of contract awards; and statements regarding outlook, including expected revenue and orders. The Company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results and future trends to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. The Company's consolidated results and the forward-looking statements could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to: the loss of our relationship with the U.S. government or a shift in U.S. government funding; potential changes in U.S. government or customer priorities; risks inherent with large long-term fixed-price contracts, particularly the ability to contain cost overruns; financial and government and regulatory risks relating to international sales and operations; our ability to continue to develop new products that achieve market acceptance; the consequences of future geo-political events; strategic acquisitions and the risks and uncertainties related thereto, including our ability to manage and integrate acquired businesses; performance of our subcontractors and suppliers; potential claims that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties; the successful resolution of patent infringement claims and the ultimate outcome of other contingencies, litigation and legal matters; customer credit risk; risks inherent in developing new technologies; changes in our effective tax rate; the impact of the results of Harris Stratex Networks, which may vary significantly and may be difficult to forecast; the potential impact of natural disasters on our significant operations in Florida, California and other locations; changes in future business conditions that could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired; and the recession in the United States and general downturn in the global economy. Further information relating to factors that may impact the Company's results and forward-looking statements are disclosed in the Company's filings with the SEC. The forward-looking statements contained in this release are made as of the date of this release, and Harris disclaims any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements
Pamela Padgett at 321-727-9383, or
Investor Relations inquiries:
pamela.padgett@harris.com
Jim Burke at 321-727-9131, or
Media inquiries:
jim.burke@harris.com
For additional information, contact Harris Corporation at .
webmaster@harris.com
 
 
 
 
 
To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we provide additional measures of segments' operating income (loss); cost of product sales and services; engineering, selling and administrative expenses; income (loss) before income taxes and minority interest; income taxes; minority interest; net income (loss); and net income (loss) per diluted share adjusted to exclude certain costs, charges, expenses, gains and losses. Harris management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that may, or could, have a disproportionately positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Harris management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze Harris business trends and to understand Harris performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting, and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management compensation purposes. Any analysis of non-GAAP financial measures should be used only in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP follows:
 
 
 
Notes to tables 5 through 7:
 Assumes Harris Stratex Networks will become a discontinued operation prior to the end of fiscal 2009. As a result, guidance and actual results have been adjusted to exclude the results of Harris Stratex Networks.
Note A
 Adjustment for the $.01 per diluted share impact of integration and other charges associated with our acquisition of Multimax Incorporated.
Note B
 Adjustment for the $.01 per diluted share impact of integration and other charges associated with our acquisition of Zandar Technologies plc.
Note C
 Adjustment for the estimated impact of $.05 per diluted share for fiscal 2009 related to integration and other charges associated with our pending acquisition of Tyco Electronics Wireless Systems business.
Note D
Additional Note Relating to Non-GAAP Earnings per Share Guidance for Fiscal 2010:
Non-GAAP earnings per share guidance for fiscal 2010 excludes acquisition-related costs. At this time a reconciliation to GAAP earnings per share guidance for fiscal 2010 is not available without unreasonable effort.


