FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20091027161237.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     
The information contained in this Current Report on
Form 8-K
that is furnished under this Item 2.02 and 7.01, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and 7.01 of
Form 8-K
and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section. The information contained in this Current Report on
Form 8-K
that is furnished under this Item 2.02 and 7.01, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     On October 27, 2009, Harris Corporation ("") issued a press release announcing, among other things, its results of operations and financial condition as of and for its first quarter of fiscal 2010 and updated guidance regarding expected earnings and revenue for fiscal 2010. The full text of the press release and related financial tables is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Harris
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
     The press release includes a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures, including income from continuing operations and income from continuing operations per diluted share for the first quarter of fiscal 2010; operating income and operating margin for the RF Communications segment for the first quarter of fiscal 2010; and guidance for income from continuing operations per diluted share for fiscal 2010; in each case excluding, as the case may be, the impact of charges for certain costs and expenses associated with the acquisitions of the Tyco Electronics Wireless Systems business (""), Crucial Security, Inc. ("") and the Air Traffic Control business unit of SolaCom Technologies Inc. (""). A "non-GAAP financial measure" is generally defined as a numerical measure of a company's historical or future performance that excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments, so as to be different from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (""). Income from continuing operations and income from continuing operations per diluted share for the first quarter of fiscal 2010; operating income and operating margin for the RF Communications segment for the first quarter of fiscal 2010; and guidance for income from continuing operations per diluted share for fiscal 2010; in each case excluding, as the case may be, the impact of charges for certain costs and expenses associated with the acquisitions of Wireless Systems, Crucial and SolaCom ATC, are financial measures that are not defined by GAAP and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, income from continuing operations, income from continuing operations per diluted share, and other financial measures on a GAAP basis. Harris has included in its press release a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in the press release to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
Wireless Systems
Crucial
SolaCom ATC
GAAP
     Harris management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that may, or could, have a disproportionate positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Harris management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze trends in Harris' business and to understand Harris' performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management compensation purposes. Please refer to Harris' financial statements and accompanying footnotes for additional information and for a presentation of results in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
          The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 27, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Harris Corporation (NYSE:HRS) revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 ended October 2, 2009, was $1.20 billion, compared with $1.17 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2009. Net income in the first quarter was $105 million, or $.79 per diluted share, compared with $119 million, or $.89 per diluted share, in the prior-year quarter. Excluding acquisition-related charges, non-GAAP income from continuing operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 was $109 million, or $.83 per diluted share. New orders in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 were a strong $1.5 billion. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures is provided in Tables 5 through 7, along with the accompanying notes.
MELBOURNE, Florida, October 27, 2009
"New orders, revenue and earnings exceeded our expectations in the first quarter as a result of strong performance in both the RF Communications and Government Communications Systems segments," said Howard L. Lance, chairman, president and chief executive officer.
"During the quarter, Harris received $220 million in orders for the new Falcon III AN/PRC-117G multiband manpack radio, marking a significant milestone toward widespread customer adoption. The 117G is being deployed to the U.S. Army in Afghanistan, becoming the first JTRS-approved ground tactical radio to be used in a wideband networking battlefield application," Lance said. "We also received orders associated with the MRAP-ATV (mine resistant ambush protected all-terrain vehicle) program and are expecting significant additional orders in the second quarter.
"We have significantly increased our full-year fiscal 2010 guidance to reflect much higher than expected tactical radio orders from the U.S. Department of Defense and the positive impact on expected revenue and earnings," Lance said.
The company has revised its guidance for non-GAAP income from continuing operations for fiscal 2010 to a range of $3.85 to $3.95 per diluted share ($3.74 to $3.84 per diluted share on a GAAP basis), compared with a previous range of $3.40 to $3.50 per diluted share ($3.25 to $3.40 per diluted share on a GAAP basis). Revenue in fiscal 2010 is now expected to be in a range of $5.1 billion to $5.2 billion. Fiscal 2010 non-GAAP earnings guidance excludes acquisition-related costs.
Increased Earnings Guidance
RF Communications segment orders in the first quarter were $709 million, including $586 million in the Tactical Radio Communications business. The significant increase in tactical radio orders was driven primarily by the rebound in U.S. DoD procurements that began in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and by accelerating customer adoption of the JTRS-approved Falcon lll AN/PRC-117G multiband manpack tactical radio.
RF Communications
During the quarter, Harris received a $165 million order from the U.S. Army as part of a $419 million Basic Purchasing Agreement (BPA) to provide 117G radios and vehicular power-amplifier systems. Additional first quarter 117G orders were received from a broad base of other customers. The 117G is being used in a wide variety of ground, vehicular and airborne applications, including ISR (intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance).
Also in the first quarter, Harris received $180 million in radio orders for the military's new MRAP-ATVs being shipped to Afghanistan to counter increased use of IEDs (improvised explosive devices). International orders included radios for military forces in Mexico, Yemen, Ethiopia, Pakistan and Australia.
1
 
Orders in the new Public Safety and Professional Communications business were $123 million. New orders were driven by continuing trends for frequency re-banding, new systems, and system upgrades requiring both infrastructure systems and radio equipment. Customers included the State of Florida, Ericsson Australia, and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. Also in the quarter, Harris received orders for more than 1,000 of its new Unity XG-100 radios from a variety of customers. The software-defined, multiband, handheld radio provides full-spectrum interoperability among federal, state, and local agencies.
Total backlog in RF Communications at the end of the first quarter was $1.23 billion, including $760 million in Tactical Radio Communications and $470 million in Public Safety and Professional Communications. RF Communications backlog at the end of fiscal 2009 was $920 million, including $470 million in Tactical Radio Communications and $450 million in Public Safety and Professional Communications.
Revenue for the RF Communications segment in the first quarter was $424 million, including $303 million in the Tactical Radio Communications business and $121 million in the Public Safety and Professional Communications business. As expected, revenue in the Tactical Radio Communications business declined compared with first-quarter prior-year revenue of $415 million as a result of procurement delays by the U.S. government and the Iraq Ministry of Defense.
Operating income for RF Communications was $114 million in the first quarter compared with $142 million in the prior-year quarter. Excluding $7 million in charges for acquisition-related expenses, non-GAAP operating income in the first quarter was $121 million. Non-GAAP operating income declined compared with the prior-year quarter as a result of reduced tactical radio revenue. Non-GAAP operating margin was a strong 28 percent for the segment due to favorable product mix and cost-reduction actions implemented in the second half of fiscal 2009.
First quarter revenue for the Government Communications Systems segment was $668 million, a 10-percent increase compared with $609 million in the prior-year quarter. Operating income was $86 million in the first quarter compared with $66 million in the prior-year quarter. Operating margin was a strong 12.8 percent, reflecting excellent performance and favorable award fees for the FAA Telecommunications Infrastructure (FTI) program. The FTI program has completed its equipment build-out phase and now is transitioning to its telecommunication services and maintenance phase.
Government Communications Systems
Segment revenue growth was driven by a broad base of programs including the FTI program, the WIN-T (Warfighter Information Network-Tactical) program, the Commercial Broadband Satellite program for the Navy, several classified programs for national intelligence customers, the Patriot IT services program for the NRO (National Reconnaissance Office), and the NETCENTS IT services program for the U.S. Air Force.
Revenue benefited from the start-up of new programs including the 10-year, potential $736 million GOES-R GS (Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite-Series R Ground Segment) program for NOAA (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration) and the 10-year, potential $600 million MET (Modernization of Enterprise Terminals) program for the U.S. Army.
Also contributing to higher revenue was growth in the Harris Healthcare Solutions business and the recent acquisitions of Crucial Security and SolaCom ATC. New contract wins in the quarter included several IT Services programs with a combined potential value of more than $400 million and new national intelligence programs with a potential value of $120 million.
2
 
First quarter orders in the Broadcast Communications segment were $124 million and were greater than revenue and about even with orders in the fourth quarter of the prior year. First quarter revenue in the segment was $119 million, compared with $130 million in the prior-year fourth quarter and $158 million in the prior-year first quarter. Continued weakness in the first quarter was expected and reflects the global economy and delayed capital spending by broadcast and media customers, as well as seasonally slow spending, primarily in Europe and the Middle East.
Broadcast Communications
Operating income in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 was $.3 million and was achieved on substantially lower revenue as a result of significant cost-reduction actions implemented during fiscal 2009.
Key program wins in the quarter included transmitters for the rollout of DTV networks in Rwanda and Mexico; complete Harris ONE solutions for Meredith Corporation's central-casting hub in Phoenix and the Home Shopping Channel in South Korea; and multiple orders for China Central Television (CCTV).
Also during the quarter, Harris was awarded a contract from Lockheed Martin to provide systems for the U.S. Joint Forces Command, which will use highly advanced broadcast technologies to help collect, manage, process, exploit and disseminate full-motion video. The system provides increased visibility into the vast amounts of real-time and archived video that is collected from manned and unmanned aircraft and ground-based sensors. The Harris system incorporates its proprietary FAME (Full-Motion Video Asset Management Engine) technology, which has broad applications in government and commercial markets.
Harris will host a conference call today at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time (ET) to discuss its first quarter fiscal 2010 financial results. The dial-in number for the teleconference is (816) 581-1736. The access code is 7224156. Please allow at least 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time to connect to the teleconference. Participants are encouraged to listen via webcast, which will be broadcast live at . A replay of the teleconference will be available beginning at 8:30 p.m. ET on October 27, and will run until midnight ET on Tuesday, November 3. To access the replay, please call (719) 457-0820, access code 7224156. A recording of the call also will be available on the Harris website beginning at 7:00 p.m. ET on October 27.
www.harris.com/conference-call
Harris is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 150 countries. Headquartered in Melbourne, Florida, the company has approximately $5 billion of annual revenue and more than 15,000 employees  including nearly 7,000 engineers and scientists. Harris is dedicated to developing best-in-class products, systems, and services. Additional information about Harris Corporation is available at .
About Harris Corporation
assured communications
www.harris.com
This press release contains non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the SEC, including income from continuing operations and income from continuing operations per diluted share for the first quarter of fiscal 2010, in each case excluding charges for acquisition-related expenses; operating income and margins for the RF Communications segment, excluding acquisition-related expenses; and fiscal 2010 guidance for earnings from continuing operations, excluding acquisition-related costs. Harris management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that may, or could, have a disproportionately positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze Harris business trends and to understand Harris performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting, and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management
Non-GAAP Financial Measure
3
 
compensation purposes. Any analysis of non-GAAP financial measures should be used only in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP.
.
Attachments:
Financial Statements (seven tables)
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations, assumptions, and estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Such statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements in this release include but are not limited to: earnings and revenue guidance for fiscal 2010; the potential value of contract awards; and statements regarding outlook, including expected revenue and orders. The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results and future trends to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. The company's consolidated results and the forward-looking statements could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to: the loss of our relationship with the U.S. government or a shift in U.S. government funding; potential changes in U.S. government or customer priorities; risks inherent with large long-term fixed-price contracts, particularly the ability to contain cost overruns; financial and government and regulatory risks relating to international sales and operations; our ability to continue to develop new products that achieve market acceptance; the consequences of future geo-political events; strategic acquisitions and the risks and uncertainties related thereto, including our ability to manage and integrate acquired businesses; performance of our subcontractors and suppliers; potential claims that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties; the successful resolution of patent infringement claims and the ultimate outcome of other contingencies, litigation and legal matters; customer credit risk; risks inherent in developing new technologies; changes in our effective tax rate; the potential impact of natural disasters on our operations; changes in future business conditions that could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired; and the recession in the United States and general downturn in the global economy. Further information relating to factors that may impact the company's results and forward-looking statements are disclosed in the company's filings with the SEC. The forward-looking statements contained in this release are made as of the date of this release, and the company disclaims any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements
Pamela Padgett at 321-727-9383, or
Investor Relations inquiries:
pamela.padgett@harris.com
Jim Burke at 321-727-9131, or
Media inquiries:
jim.burke@harris.com
For additional information, contact Harris Corporation at .
webmaster@harris.com
4
 
 
 
 
 
To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we provide additional measures of segments' operating income; cost of product sales and services; engineering, selling and administrative expenses; income from continuing operations before income taxes; income taxes; income from continuing operations; and income from continuing operations per diluted share adjusted to exclude certain costs, charges, expenses and losses. Harris management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that may, or could, have a disproportionately positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Harris management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze Harris business trends and to understand Harris performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting, and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management compensation purposes. Any analysis of non-GAAP financial measures should be used only in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP follows:
 
 
 
 
Notes to tables 5 through 7:
 Adjustments to cost of product sales and services for the quarter ended October 2, 2009 are due to integration costs and the impact of a step up in inventory associated with our acquisition of the Tyco Electronics Wireless Systems business ("Wireless Systems") ($3.6 million).
Note A
 Adjustments to engineering, selling and administrative expenses for the quarter ended October 2, 2009 are due to integration and other costs associated with our acquisitions of Wireless Systems ($2.9 million), Crucial Security, Inc. ("Crucial") ($0.4 million) and the Air Traffic Control business unit of SolaCom Technologies Inc. ("SolaCom ATC") ($0.3 million).
Note B
 Adjustments to our RF Communications segment operating income for the quarter ended October 2, 2009 are due to integration costs and the impact of a step up in inventory associated with our acquisition of Wireless Systems ($6.5 million).
Note C
 Adjustments to our Government Communications Systems segment operating income for the quarter ended October 2, 2009 are due to integration costs associated with our acquisitions of Crucial ($0.4 million) and SolaCom ATC ($0.3 million).
Note D
 Adjustment for pre-tax charges of $255.5 million ($1.48 per diluted share) for impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets in our Broadcast Communications segment.
Note E
 Adjustment for pre-tax charges of $9.5 million ($.04 per diluted share) for fiscal 2009 and estimated pre-tax charges of $20.0 million ($.10 per diluted share) for fiscal 2010, related to integration and other costs associated with our acquisition of Wireless Systems.
Note F
 Adjustment for estimated pre-tax charges of $2.5 million ($.01 per diluted share) for fiscal 2010 related to integration costs associated with our acquisitions of Crucial and SolaCom ATC.
Note G
 The fiscal 2009 GAAP and non-GAAP income from continuing operations per diluted share have been restated from $2.35 and $3.87, respectively, to $2.34 and $3.86, respectively. The restatement reflects the impact of adopting a new accounting standard that requires unvested share-based payment awards that contain rights to receive nonforfeitable dividends to be treated as participating securities and included in the calculations of income per basic and diluted share.
Note H


