FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20090602160036.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Material Impairments	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On May 29, 2009, Harris Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Harris"), completed the acquisition from Tyco Electronics Group S.A., a company organized under the laws of Luxembourg (the "Seller") and a subsidiary of Tyco Electronics Ltd., a corporation incorporated under the laws of Bermuda ("Tyco Electronics"), of substantially all of the assets of the Seller's wireless systems business (the "Business"). The acquisition was consummated pursuant to the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 16, 2009, between Harris, the Seller and, solely for the limited purposes of Section 11.09 thereof, Tyco Electronics, as amended pursuant to the Amendment to Asset Purchase Agreement (the "Amendment") among such parties, entered into on May 29, 2009 (as so amended, the "Agreement").
The purchase price for the Business was $675 million in cash, subject to post-closing adjustments as set forth in the Agreement. Pursuant to the Agreement, Harris also assumed liabilities primarily related to the Business, with exceptions as set forth in the Agreement. The Business conducts a worldwide wireless network systems business which designs, builds, distributes, maintains and supplies wireless communications systems, including land mobile radio and broadband equipment systems and networks and equipment for the public safety, utility, federal, military and commercial markets. There is no material relationship, except the Agreement and related documentation, between the Seller or Tyco Electronics and Harris or any of Harris' affiliates, or any director or officer of Harris, or any associate of any such director or officer.
The foregoing description of the acquisition, the Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby is only a summary, does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of (i) the Asset Purchase Agreement filed as Exhibit 2.1 to Harris' Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on April 22, 2009, which is incorporated in this Item 2.01 by reference, and (ii) the Amendment which is filed as Exhibit 2.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is also incorporated in this Item 2.01 by reference.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Arrangement or an Obligation Under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
Harris funded a portion of the purchase price for its acquisition of the Business through the issuance of approximately $504,050,000 in aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes under its commercial paper program ("CP Notes"). As of May 29, 2009, $469,050,000 of the CP Notes had a seven-day maturity and $35,000,000 of the CP Notes had a one-day maturity. A significant portion of the CP Notes was issued on May 27, 2009. The CP Notes were issued and sold pursuant to an exemption from registration under federal and state securities laws. The CP Notes are not redeemable prior to maturity and are not subject to voluntary prepayment. The outstanding CP Notes constitute a direct financial obligation of Harris. As of May 29, 2009, the CP Notes had a weighted average annual interest rate of approximately 0.93% per annum. Subject to Harris' capital needs, market conditions and alternative capital market opportunities, Harris expects to maintain indebtedness under its commercial paper program by continually repaying and reissuing CP Notes until such time, if any, as the outstanding CP Notes are replaced with longer-term debt. However, Harris' commercial paper balance may increase or decrease in the short term due to working capital needs and cash balances. Harris may currently issue unsecured short-term promissory notes up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of up to $750,000,000 under the program. The program is supported by the $750,000,000 Revolving Credit Agreement that was entered into by Harris on September 10, 2008. Harris' commercial paper program was previously described in Harris' Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 18, 2007. As of the close of business on May 29, 2009 following the acquisition of the Business, Harris had cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of approximately $220 million.
Item 2.06 Material Impairments.
On May 29, 2009, Harris concluded that the current carrying value of its goodwill and other intangible assets related to its Broadcast Communications segment is impaired. As required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets," Harris reviews goodwill for impairment on an annual basis. Harris' annual goodwill impairment review coincides with its fiscal fourth quarter strategic planning cycle. Harris' fiscal 2009 fourth quarter review indicated that the fair value of goodwill and other intangible assets of its Broadcast Communications segment has been reduced below its carrying value primarily because current market conditions have resulted in reduced levels of capital expenditures related to broadcast infrastructure systems. As of the fiscal third quarter ended April 3, 2009, the book value of the goodwill and other intangible assets in the Broadcast Communications segment was $928 million.
 
While Harris' review to quantify the amount of the impairment has not yet been completed, Harris estimates that the non-cash charge during its fiscal 2009 fourth quarter will be in a range of $250 million to $275 million. Harris expects to complete its review and record the final impairment charge prior to the end of its fiscal year ending July 3, 2009. The impairment charge will not result in any future cash expenditures.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On June 1, 2009, Harris issued a press release announcing (i) the completion on May 27, 2009 of the spin-off of all of its holdings in Harris Stratex Networks, Inc. ("HSTX"), representing approximately 56 percent of the outstanding shares of HSTX to Harris' shareholders of record as of 5:30 p.m. Eastern Time on May 13, 2009 and a $60 million to $70 million after-tax charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 related to the write-down of HSTX's net assets to the fair value of the HSTX shares distributed to Harris' shareholders and other spin-off related charges; (ii) the completion of the acquisition of the Business; (iii) cost-reduction actions across Harris' business segments and at its corporate headquarters; (iv) an expected non-cash impairment charge in a range of $250 million to $275 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 to write down the goodwill and other intangible assets in Harris' Broadcast Communications segment; and (v) updated earnings guidance for Harris' fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010. The full text of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in this Item 7.01 by reference. The information contained in this Item 7.01, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 2.2
     This AMENDMENT TO ASSET PURCHASE AGREEMENT, dated as of May 29, 2009 (this ""), is made by and among Harris Corporation, a Delaware corporation, Tyco Electronics Group S.A., a company organized under the laws of Luxembourg, and, solely for the limited purposes of Section 5 with respect to its obligations under Section 11.09 of the Purchase Agreement (as defined below), Tyco Electronics Ltd., a corporation incorporated under the laws of Bermuda.
Amendment
     WHEREAS, the parties hereto are parties to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 16, 2009 (the ""); and
Purchase Agreement
     WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend the Purchase Agreement as set forth herein.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt, adequacy and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows (all capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings specified in the Purchase Agreement):
     SECTION 1. Amendments To The Purchase Agreement.
     (a) The definition of "" in Section 1.01(a) of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Assumed Intercompany Payables
"" means the trade payables incurred in the ordinary course of business due and payable by the Business to Seller and its Affiliates, but only to the extent included in the calculation of Final Closing Working Capital and excluding the payables due and payable by M/A-COM or M/A-COM Canada to the Business in Ireland."
Assumed Intercompany Payables
     (b) The definition of "" in Section 1.01(a) of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Assumed Intercompany Receivables
 
"" means the trade receivables incurred in the ordinary course of business due and owing to the Business from Seller and its Affiliates, but only to the extent included in the calculation of Final Closing Working Capital and excluding the receivables due and owing to the Business in Ireland from M/A-COM or M/A-COM Canada."
Assumed Intercompany Receivables
     (c) Section 1.01(a) of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended to add the following definitions:
"" means the Business Employees located in the Delayed Employee Transfer Countries, which Business Employees are listed on a list to be delivered by Seller to Buyer no later than two Business Days after the Closing Date.
Applicable Employee
"" means those countries in which Business Employees are located other than the United States, Ireland, Canada, Poland and the United Kingdom.
Delayed Employee Transfer Countries
"" means each date on which a Delayed Employee Transfer occurs.
Delayed Employee Transfer Date
"" means each transfer of Delayed Transfer Purchased Assets and Delayed Transfer Assumed Liabilities pursuant to Section 2.12.
Delayed Transfer
"" means those Assumed Liabilities relating primarily to the Business in the Delayed Transfer Country.
Delayed Transfer Assumed Liabilities
"" means Brazil.
Delayed Transfer Country
"" means those Purchased Assets relating primarily to the Business in the Delayed Transfer Country.
Delayed Transfer Purchased Assets
     (d) The following rows are hereby added in the appropriate alphabetical order to the table at the end of Section 1.01(a) of the Purchase Agreement:
     (e) The first paragraph of Section 2.01 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
 
     "Section 2.01. . Except with respect to the Delayed Transfer Purchased Assets, which are addressed in Section 2.12, upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, Buyer agrees to purchase (or, subject to Section 13.05, cause Buyer's designated Affiliate(s) to purchase) from Seller and its Affiliates and Seller agrees to sell, convey, transfer, assign and deliver, or cause to be sold, conveyed, transferred, assigned and delivered, to Buyer (or, subject to Section 13.05, Buyer's designated Affiliate(s)) at the Closing, free and clear of all Liens, other than Permitted Liens, all of Seller's and its Affiliates' right, title and interest in, to and under the following assets, properties and rights of Seller and its Affiliates (the ""):"
Purchase and Sale
Purchased Assets
     (f) The first paragraph of Section 2.03 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
     "Section 2.03. . Except with respect to the Delayed Transfer Assumed Liabilities, which are addressed in Section 2.12, upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, Buyer agrees, effective at the time of the Closing, to assume (or to cause to be assumed) all Liabilities to the extent relating primarily to the ownership, use or operation of the Purchased Assets or the Business, whether arising prior to, at or after the Closing, other than the Excluded Liabilities (all of the foregoing Liabilities to be so assumed being herein collectively called the ""); that notwithstanding the transactions contemplated hereby or any provision of this Agreement, all assets and liabilities of the Subsidiary shall remain the assets and liabilities of the Subsidiary. Without limitation of the foregoing, Assumed Liabilities shall include the following:"
Assumed Liabilities
Assumed Liabilities
provided
     (g) Section 2.04(g) of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
     "(g) all Liabilities arising under the Excluded Plans, including any defined benefit or defined contribution pension obligation (regardless of whether such obligation is contained in an employment agreement, collective bargaining agreement, national, industry or company agreement, works council agreement or otherwise), other than any such pension obligation that is solely governmental and, as an initial matter, was not voluntary in nature and other than the Canadian Registered Retirement Savings Plans and the Irish Benefit Plan; any non-qualified deferred compensation arrangement; and any post-retirement health and post-retirement life insurance plans (other than the Com-Net Retirement Medical Plan); , for the avoidance of doubt, that this Section 2.04(g) does not include Liabilities for items to the extent that they are accrued in the Closing Working Capital or constitute vacation or paid time off;"
provided, however
 
     (h) Section 2.05(a) of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
     "(a) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, this Agreement shall not constitute an agreement to assign any Purchased Asset or any claim or right or any benefit arising thereunder or resulting therefrom if such assignment, with or without the consent, approval or waiver of, or notice to, a third party thereto, would constitute a breach or other contravention of such Purchased Asset or violation of any Applicable Law or in any way adversely affect the rights of Buyer (or its designated Affiliate(s)) or Seller (or an Affiliate of Seller) thereunder unless and until any required consent, approval or waiver is obtained. Seller and Buyer shall use their reasonable best efforts (including the dedication of resources thereto, but without any obligation to expend money, commence litigation or offer or grant any financial or other accommodation to any third party) to obtain the consent, approval or waiver of, or provide the required notice to, such third parties to or of the assignment to Buyer (or, subject to Section 13.05, its designated Affiliate(s)) of any Purchased Asset or any claim or right or any benefit arising thereunder or otherwise transfer the rights and benefits of any Non-assignable Asset (as defined below) to Buyer or, subject to Section 13.05, its designated Affiliate, including, in the case of any non-transferable Permits, to cause the applicable Governmental Authority to issue a new Permit to Buyer or its Affiliate in place of such non-transferable Permit and with respect to prime Government Contracts, to obtain all necessary approval and consent of the applicable U.S. federal Governmental Authority to novate such prime Government Contracts in accordance with FAR Subpart 42.12. If such consent, approval or waiver is not obtained, or such notice is not made, or if an attempted assignment thereof would be ineffective or would adversely affect the rights of Seller or any of its Affiliates thereunder so that Buyer (or, subject to Section 13.05, its designated Affiliate(s)) would not in fact receive all such rights, or if such asset is not transferable under Applicable Law with or without such consent, approval, waiver or notice (any assets so described, the ""), Seller and Buyer agree that Buyer will receive the benefits and perform the obligations under such Non-assignable Asset, and Seller and Buyer will use their commercially reasonable efforts (but without any obligation to expend money, commence litigation or offer or grant any financial or other accommodation to any third party) to enter into a mutually agreeable arrangement under which Buyer would assume the obligations and Seller would provide to Buyer (or, subject to Section 13.05, its designated Affiliate(s)) the benefits of any Non-assignable Asset, including sub-contracting, sub-licensing, or sub-leasing to Buyer (or, subject to Section 13.05, its designated Affiliate(s)), and with respect to the prime Government Contracts, entering into and taking commercially reasonable efforts to obtain any required approvals or consents of any U.S.
Non-assignable Assets
 
federal Governmental Authority to the Subcontract prior to the Closing Date), or under which Seller would enforce for the benefit of Buyer (or, subject to Section 13.05, its designated Affiliate(s)), with Buyer (or, subject to Section 13.05, its designated Affiliate(s)) assuming Seller's (or such Affiliate's) obligations under such Non-assignable Asset, any and all rights of Seller or such Affiliate against a third party thereto. In connection with any such arrangement, Buyer shall reimburse Seller and its Affiliates for any reasonable and documented out-of-pocket costs and expenses actually incurred by Seller or its Affiliates in connection with the performance of any mutually agreeable arrangement or that otherwise would have been incurred by Buyer or its Affiliates had such Non-assignable Asset been assigned, transferred or conveyed as contemplated by this Agreement, including any Liability arising out of Buyer's failure to perform thereunder (such costs and expenses, the ""). Prior to the amount of the deductible described in clause (B) of Section 11.02(a) being exceeded (whether pursuant to reimbursement under this sentence or pursuant to any other provision of this Agreement or a combination of the foregoing), Buyer will promptly reimburse Seller for all out-of pocket costs and expenses actually incurred by Seller or its Affiliates (other than Alternative Arrangement Costs) relating to or arising from the failure to obtain a consent, approval or waiver for any Non-assignable Assets (such costs and expenses, the "") and any such reimbursement shall be applied toward such deductible. After the amount of such deductible has been exceeded, Buyer will promptly reimburse Seller for 50% of Other Consent Costs. Seller will promptly pay to Buyer (or, subject to Section 13.05, its designated Affiliate(s)) when received all monies received by Seller or an Affiliate of Seller under any Purchased Asset or any claim or right or any benefit arising thereunder, except to the extent the same represents an Excluded Asset."
Alternative Arrangement Costs
Other Consent Costs
     (i) Section 2.07(b) of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
     "(b) Seller shall deliver or cause its Affiliates to deliver, as applicable, to Buyer such deeds, bills of sale, endorsements, assignments, duly endorsed certificates, stock powers and other good and sufficient instruments of conveyance and assignment as reasonably necessary or appropriate to vest in Buyer (or, subject to Section 13.05, its designated Affiliate) all right, title and interest in, to and under the Purchased Assets other than the Irish Purchased Assets, which are addressed in Section 2.10, and the Delayed Transfer Purchased Assets, which are addressed in Section 2.12."
     (j) The following section is hereby added as Section 2.11 of the Purchase Agreement:
 
     "Section 2.11. . Promptly after the Closing Date, but in no event later than the six (6) month anniversary of the Closing Date, Buyer and Seller will or will cause their Affiliates to transfer the Applicable Employees in each Delayed Employee Transfer Country (each such transfer, a "") pursuant to Section 9.04A. Unless otherwise agreed in writing (or unless Buyer has not given written notice prior to the six (6) month anniversary of the Closing Date, in which case the Delayed Employee Transfer will take place on such anniversary), Buyer shall give Seller at least thirty (30) days' prior written notice of any proposed Delayed Employee Transfer. Notwithstanding any provision in the Purchase Agreement or the Disclosure Schedule to the contrary, Buyer and Seller agree that the Applicable Employees will remain employed by Seller or its Affiliates, as the case may be, until the applicable Delayed Employee Transfer Date or such earlier date when the Applicable Employee voluntarily shall terminate his or her employment. Buyer and Seller agree that the Applicable Employees' employment by Seller and its Affiliates subsequent to the Closing Date shall be pursuant to substantially the same terms and conditions, including substantially the same compensation and benefits, as in effect with respect to the Applicable Employees immediately prior to the Closing Date, except in such cases as Seller or its Affiliates are required to change such terms or conditions under Applicable Law or make changes to such terms and conditions for employees generally; , that, if possible, Seller and its Affiliates will avoid making any such changes and, , that if any such changes are made and as a result thereof Buyer or its Affiliates are required to modify their benefit plans or other employee benefits programs or policies in order to comply with Applicable Law, Seller agrees, at Buyer's request, to extend the transfer date provided in this Section 2.11 by thirty (30) days with respect to the affected Applicable Employees. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Buyer and Seller agree that subsequent to the Closing Date, the Applicable Employees shall not be granted any new awards under any stock option or other equity-based compensation plan of Seller or its Affiliates. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Delayed Employee Transfers are not required to occur on the same date for all of the Delayed Employee Transfer Countries.
Delayed Employee Transfers
Delayed Employee Transfer
provided
provided, further
     (k) The following section is hereby added as Section 2.12 of the Purchase Agreement:
     "Section 2.12. . (a) Promptly after the Closing Date, but in no event later than the six (6) month anniversary of the Closing Date, (i) Buyer shall purchase (or, subject to Section 13.05, cause Buyer's designated Affiliate(s) to purchase) from Seller and Seller shall sell, convey, transfer, assign and deliver, or cause to be sold, conveyed,
Delayed Transfers
 
transferred, assigned and delivered to Buyer (or, subject to Section 13.05, Buyer's designated Affiliate(s)) free and clear of all Liens other than Permitted Liens, all of Seller's and its Affiliates' right, title and interest in, to and under the Delayed Transfer Purchased Assets, (ii) Seller shall deliver or cause its Affiliates to deliver, as applicable, to Buyer such deeds, bills of sale, endorsements, assignments, duly endorsed certificates, stock powers and other good and sufficient instruments of conveyance and assignment as reasonably necessary or appropriate to vest in Buyer (or, subject to Section 13.05, its designated Affiliate) all right, title and interest in, to and under the Delayed Transfer Purchased Assets and (iii) Buyer shall, contemporaneously with the transfer of such Delayed Transfer Purchased Assets, assume (or cause to be assumed) all of the Delayed Transfer Assumed Liabilities. From and after the Closing Date, Seller shall, or cause its Affiliates to, hold and operate the Delayed Transfer Purchased Assets and the portion of the Business relating thereto on behalf of and for the sole benefit and detriment of Buyer. Unless otherwise agreed in writing (or unless Buyer has not given written notice prior to the six (6) month anniversary of the Closing Date, in which case the Delayed Transfer will take place on such anniversary), Buyer shall give Seller at least thirty (30) days' prior written notice of any proposed Delayed Transfer.
     (b) Subject to the next sentence, the operation and maintenance of the Delayed Transfer Purchased Assets and the Delayed Transfer Assumed Liabilities shall be funded by Seller. Buyer and Seller agree that, no later than fifteen (15) days following the end of each month, Buyer will reimburse Seller for direct expenses of the Business incurred by it in operating the Business in the Delayed Transfer Country as well as for allocations of costs to such portion of the Business by Seller that are consistent with the historical allocation of costs to such portion of the Business by Seller.
     (c) Unless otherwise mutually agreed in writing by Buyer and Seller, Seller shall return to Buyer no later than two Business Days prior to the Delayed Transfer that portion of the Purchase Price allocated to the Delayed Transfer Purchased Assets (the "") in immediately available funds by wire transfer. At the Delayed Transfer, Buyer shall cause an Affiliate of its designation in the Delayed Transfer Country to deliver the Delayed Transfer Purchase Price to Seller's Affiliate in the Delayed Transfer Country in immediately available funds by wire transfer.
Delayed Transfer Purchase Price
     (l) The following section is hereby added as Section 6.02(c) of the Purchase Agreement:
 
     "In furtherance of its obligations in this Section 6.02, from and after the Closing Date, in connection with the Excluded Liability listed as Item 2 on Schedule 2.04(v), Buyer will use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Transferred Employees with knowledge pertaining thereto to comply with requests for depositions and for testimony at trial and to make themselves available for deposition and reasonable trial testimony preparation by Seller's counsel; that (x) notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 6.02(c), Buyer will only be obligated to comply with this Section 6.02(c) with respect to any person if and for so long as Buyer is capable of directing the actions of such person and (y) Seller shall bear all of the out-of-pocket costs and expenses reasonably incurred in connection with this Section 6.02(c). To the extent a Transferred Employee or other employee of Buyer and its Affiliates is required to spend more than seven (7) hours in any day to provide such cooperation to Seller and its Affiliates, Seller shall also compensate Buyer and its Affiliates for 130% of the costs of salary for such day for such Transferred Employee or other employee of Buyer and its Affiliates. Seller and its Affiliates hereby agree to use commercially reasonable efforts to conduct the litigation in such a manner, without compromising Seller's position, to minimize disruption to the Business, including by providing, to the extent it is reasonably practicable, reasonable advance notice to Buyer and its Affiliates of the need to use the Transferred Employees as provided for in this Section 6.02(c), and scheduling events, to the extent it is reasonably practicable, to accommodate the schedules and reasonable requests of the Transferred Employees and Buyer and its Affiliates. The parties hereto hereby agree and acknowledge that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the litigation shall be an Excluded Liability retained by Seller pursuant to this Agreement, and that nothing in this Section shall in any way affect the treatment of the litigation under this Agreement as an Excluded Liability.
provided
     (m) The following section is hereby added as Section 6.02(d) of the Purchase Agreement:
     "From and after the Closing Date, Buyer will provide and, as applicable, will use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause its Affiliates and the Transferred Employees to provide reasonable cooperation to Seller, its Affiliates and their respective Representatives in connection with any dispute between Seller or any of its Affiliates and a third party under any Contracts constituting Excluded Contracts that were entered into primarily in connection with the SONY Contract, including attendance and participation in meetings with any such third party as reasonably necessary to resolve any such dispute; that (x) notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 6.02(d), Buyer will only be obligated to cause any person to provide such cooperation if and for so long as Buyer is capable of directing the actions of such person
provided
 
(y) Seller shall bear all of the out-of-pocket costs and expenses reasonably incurred in connection with this Section 6.02(d) and (z) Buyer shall not be required to provide cooperation to the extent in its reasonable judgment such cooperation could harm its commercial relations with the parties involved. To the extent a Transferred Employee or other employee of Buyer and its Affiliates is required to spend more than seven (7) hours in any day to provide such cooperation to Seller and its Affiliates, Seller shall also compensate Buyer and its Affiliates for 130% of the costs of salary for such day for such Transferred Employee or other employee of Buyer and its Affiliates. Seller and its Affiliates hereby agree to use commercially reasonable efforts to act in such a manner, without compromising Seller's position, to minimize disruption to the Business, including by providing, to the extent it is reasonably practicable, reasonable advance notice to Buyer and its Affiliates of the need to use the Transferred Employees as provided for in this Section 6.02(d), and scheduling events, to the extent it is reasonably practicable, to accommodate the schedules and reasonable requests of the Transferred Employees and Buyer and its Affiliates. The parties hereto hereby agree and acknowledge that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the dispute shall be an Excluded Liability retained by Seller pursuant to this Agreement, and that nothing in this Section shall in any way affect the treatment of the dispute under this Agreement as an Excluded Liability.
     (n) The following sentence is hereby added immediately after the second sentence of Section 6.03 of the Purchase Agreement:
     "Buyer's obligations under this Section 6.03 will also include providing support for the completion, maintenance, ongoing operation and modification of a testing lab to perform tests and observations as reasonably requested by Seller, its Affiliates or their respective Representatives in connection with the defense or prosecution of the SONY Litigation, and providing the results of such tests and observations to Seller, its Affiliates or their respective Representatives. To the extent a Transferred Employee or other employee of Buyer and its Affiliates is required to spend more than seven (7) hours in any day to provide the cooperation described in the immediately preceding sentence to Seller and its Affiliates, Seller shall also compensate Buyer and its Affiliates for 130% of the costs of salary for such day for such Transferred Employee or other employee of Buyer and its Affiliates."
     (o) The following section is hereby added as Section 7.05(d) of the Purchase Agreement:
     "(d) Seller and its Affiliates shall:
Chain of Title.
 
     (i) provide Buyer and its Affiliates with a document memorializing assignment of all DTX Patents and DTX Trademarks that have been assigned from M/A-Com Eurotec B.V. to Raychem International;
     (ii) provide Buyer and its Affiliates with a copy of the name change certificate or similar document pursuant to which Comnet Ericsson Critical Radio Systems, Inc. changed its name to M/A-Com Private Radio Systems, Inc.;
     (iii) in connection with the Transferred Patents, provide a copy of and file, or reimburse Buyer and its Affiliates for reasonable expenses incurred in filing, a merger certificate or similar official document confirming the merger between M/A-Com Private Radio Systems, Inc. and M/A-Com, Inc. with the relevant Governmental Authorities;
     (iv) in connection with the Transferred Patents, provide a copy of and file, or reimburse Buyer and its Affiliates for reasonable expenses incurred in filing, any name change certificates or similar documents evidencing the transactions pursuant to which Com-Net Ericsson Canada Corp. changed its name to M/A-Com Private Radio Systems Canada Corp. with the relevant Governmental Authorities; and
     (v) other than with respect to the DTX Patents and DTX Trademarks and any Transferred Patents that were acquired by Seller or any of its Affiliates in connection with Seller and its Affiliates' transactions with or relating to Com-Net Ericsson Critical Radio Systems, Inc., for a period of three years following the Closing use commercially reasonable efforts to provide Buyer and its Affiliates with documentation that is in the possession of Seller or its Affiliate, that is not subject to confidentiality or similar restrictions on disclosure, or that can be easily obtained by Seller or any of its Affiliates at minimal or no cost and that is necessary, proper or advisable to correct any chain of title gaps for the Transferred Patents;
, that any filings in connection with (iii) or (iv) of this Section 7.05(d) will not take place until after Closing.
provided, however
     (p) The following section is hereby added as Section 7.09 of the Purchase Agreement:
     "Section 7.09. . From and after the Closing Date for a maximum of one (1) year after the Closing Date, Buyer will provide and, as applicable, cause its Affiliates and the Transferred Employees to provide reasonable cooperation to Seller and its Affiliates in connection with the identification and disposition by Seller or, as applicable, any of its Affiliates of any asset that is an Excluded Asset retained by Seller in connection with the SONY Contract,
Cooperation on Sales of SONY Excluded Assets
 
including reasonable participation in discussions with customers related to the sale of such assets; that (w) Buyer will have no obligations under this Section 7.09 to the extent Buyer reasonably determines such sale or proposed sale of such assets is to a Person that is a direct competitor of Buyer or would otherwise harm its sales efforts or result in a loss of a potential sale for the Business; (x) Buyer will have no obligation under this Section 7.09 to conduct the physical dismantling of any such assets; (y) notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 7.09, Buyer will only be obligated to cause any person to provide such cooperation if and for so long as Buyer is capable of directing the actions of such person and (z) Seller shall bear all of the out-of-pocket costs and expenses reasonably incurred in connection with this Section 7.09. To the extent a Transferred Employee or other employee of Buyer and its Affiliates is required to spend more than seven (7) hours in any day to provide such cooperation to Seller and its Affiliates, Seller shall also compensate Buyer and its Affiliates for 130% of the costs of salary for such day for such Transferred Employee or other employee of Buyer and its Affiliates. In seeking the cooperation, Seller and its Affiliates shall minimize disruption to the Business, including by providing, to the extent it is reasonably practicable, reasonable advance notice to Buyer and its Affiliates of the need to use the Transferred Employees as provided for in this Section 7.09, and scheduling events, to the extent it is reasonably practicable, to accommodate the schedules and reasonable requests of the Transferred Employees and Buyer and its Affiliates. The parties hereto hereby agree and acknowledge that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, Buyer and its Affiliates shall have no responsibility and liability with respect to any transactions that may occur involving the Excluded Assets, and that nothing in this Section shall in any way affect the treatment of any liability related to these Excluded Assets as an Excluded Liability."
provided
     (q) The following section is hereby added as Section 7.10 of the Purchase Agreement:
     "Section 7.10. . Buyer and Seller hereby agree to comply with their respective obligations set forth on Schedule 7.10, at the times, in the manner and subject to the terms and conditions set forth in such Schedule."
Lynchburg Property Matters
     (r) The following section is hereby added as Section 9.04A of the Purchase Agreement:
     "Section 9.04A. . (a) Except for this Section 9.04A and with respect to the fifth sentence of Section 9.04, for purposes of applying Sections 9.04, 9.06, 9.08 and 9.10 with respect to the Applicable Employees, the term "Delayed Employee Transfer Date" shall be substituted for all references to the terms "Closing" and "Closing Date".
Delayed Transfers of Employees
 
     (b) Seller and Buyer hereby covenant and agree for the benefit of each other and each other's Affiliates to cooperate and take reasonable actions so that persons conducting business or otherwise interacting or having contact with the Applicable Employees after the Closing Date but prior to the Delayed Employee Transfer Date are informed and understand that the Applicable Employees: (i) are authorized and empowered to act solely on behalf of Buyer and its Affiliates, (ii) are performing their duties or otherwise acting under the direction and supervision of Buyer and its Affiliates and (iii) have no power or authority to bind, commit or otherwise obligate Seller or any of its Affiliates in respect of any transaction or Liability.
     (c) In respect of the Applicable Employees, Buyer and Seller hereby covenant and agree for the benefit of each other and each other's Affiliates to use commercially reasonable efforts to authorize and enable each Applicable Employee, effective from and after the Closing Date and through the Delayed Employee Transfer Date, to perform his or her duties and obligations substantially as performed on behalf of Seller and its Affiliates prior to the Closing Date. For the avoidance of doubt, Buyer's obligations under this Section 9.04A(c) will include, without limitation, providing to each Applicable Employee access to and use of such Purchased Assets as are necessary to perform his or her duties and obligations substantially as performed on behalf of Seller and its Affiliates prior to the Closing Date.
     (d) Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.04, including subsection (k) thereof but not including subsection (g) thereof to the extent subsection (g) thereof addresses the costs and expenses of continued pension and benefit coverage for the Applicable Employees after the Closing Date and on or prior to the Delayed Employee Transfer Date (but including subsection (g) thereof for all other purposes, including with respect to any administrative costs and expenses relating to any pension or benefit plan), Buyer shall reimburse Seller and its Affiliates for costs and expenses incurred by Seller and its Affiliates in respect of the Applicable Employees after the Closing Date and on or prior to the Delayed Employee Transfer Date, including, without limitation, all payroll, pension and other benefits and related costs and expenses in respect of the Applicable Employees as well as for allocations of any other cost related to such Applicable Employees that are consistent with the historical allocation of costs to the Business by Seller; , that, for the purposes of this Section 9.04A(d), the proviso in Section 2.04(g) shall read as follows: ", for the avoidance of doubt, that this Section 2.04(g) does not include Liabilities for items of the type that are accrued in the Closing Working Capital or that constitute vacation or paid time off;".
provided
provided, however
 
     (e) Buyer shall indemnify and hold harmless Seller and its Affiliates from and against any and all Damages arising out of or in connection with: (w) any act or omission (or alleged act or omission) of any Applicable Employee that occurs (or is alleged to have occurred) after the Closing Date, regardless of legal theory, and whether based in tort, contract, strict liability or otherwise, (x) any claim, action, cause of action or other proceeding brought or asserted by or on behalf of any Applicable Employee in respect of his or her employment and based upon facts or circumstances during the period from the Closing Date until the Delayed Employee Transfer Date (including, without limitation, any claim of discrimination on any basis, harassment or unlawful termination), or (y) any and all Damages (including any severance costs) associated with the termination of employment of any Applicable Employee for any reason after the Closing Date and on or prior to the Delayed Employee Transfer Date, except in the case of each of (w), (x) and (y), any such Damages resulting from (X) the willful or gross misconduct, gross negligence or criminal acts of Seller and its Affiliates or agents thereof or (Y) the exercise by Seller and its Affiliates or agents thereof, other than as directed by Buyer and its Affiliates, of direction and supervision with respect to the Applicable Employees; , that (i) no Applicable Employee shall be deemed an agent of Seller and its Affiliates for purposes of clauses (X) and (Y) hereof, (ii) clause (Y) shall not include any direction or supervision by Seller and its Affiliates for the employees to perform their employment responsibilities in a manner to comply with Applicable Law and (iii) clause (Y) shall not include any direction or supervision by Seller or its Affiliates for the employees to continue to perform their employment responsibilities consistent with the ordinary course conduct of the Business as of the Closing Date, to the extent Buyer and its Affiliates have not provided contrary direction and supervision."
provided, however
     (s) The following section is hereby added as Section 9.12 of the Purchase Agreement:
          "Section 9.12 . Seller hereby covenants and agrees that it shall pay, or cause its Affiliates to pay, and that Buyer and its Affiliates shall have no Liability for payment of, bonuses and other cash incentive compensation (whether payable on a monthly, quarterly, annual or other basis) payable to Business Employees for performance periods prior to the Closing Date or Delayed Employee Transfer Date, as applicable, including any bonuses and other cash incentive compensation for any performance period that has not ended as of the Closing Date or Delayed Employee Transfer Date, as applicable. Seller and Buyer agree that the calculation of the amount of the bonuses and other cash incentive compensation, the timing of payment of such amounts and the other
Bonus Payment
 
terms of the payment shall be in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable Benefit Plan (as such terms and conditions exist on the Closing Date or as amended thereafter to reflect Applicable Law); , that (i) any requirement that a Business Employee be employed as of the last day of the performance period or satisfy a minimum period of service during the performance period (or any like requirement) in order for the Business Employee to be eligible for the bonus or other cash compensation shall not apply and (ii) the amount of bonus or other cash compensation earned under the applicable Benefit Plan for any performance period that has not ended as of the Closing Date or Delayed Employee Transfer Date, as applicable, may be pro-rated to reflect the period during the performance period in which the Business Employee was employed by Seller and its Affiliates. For the avoidance of doubt, the term "bonuses and other cash incentive compensation" for purposes of this Section 9.12 shall exclude any compensation that is an Assumed Liability."
provided, however
     SECTION 2
. Amendments to the Disclosure Schedule.
     (a) Schedule 1.01(a)(i)(b) of the Disclosure Schedule is hereby amended by adding the name listed on Exhibit A hereto to the end of the list under the heading "Employees who shall not be deemed Business Employees".
     (b) The heading of Schedule 2.04(u) is hereby amended to read as Schedule 2.04(v) thereby making it Schedule 2.04(v) (as referenced in the Purchase Agreement).
     (c) Schedule 7.10 of the Disclosure Schedule is hereby added to the Disclosure Schedule as set forth on Exhibit B hereto.
     SECTION 3. For the avoidance of doubt and notwithstanding the amendments to the Purchase Agreement provided for in this Amendment, the calculations of Closing Working Capital (including the calculation of Final Closing Working Capital) and Closing Cash (including the calculation of the Closing Cash Amount) pursuant to Section 2.08 of the Purchase Agreement shall include and take into account the Delayed Transfer Purchased Assets and the Delayed Transfer Assumed Liabilities as if acquired on the Closing Date.
Working Capital Calculation.
     SECTION 4Upon the execution and delivery hereof, the Purchase Agreement shall thereupon be deemed to be amended and/or restated as hereinabove set forth as fully and with the same effect as if the amendments and/or restatements made hereby were originally set forth in the Purchase Agreement, and this Amendment and the Purchase Agreement shall henceforth respectively be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument, but such amendments and/or restatements shall not operate so as to render invalid or improper any action heretofore taken under the Purchase Agreement.
. Effectiveness of Amendment.
 
     SECTION 5
. General Provisions.
     (a) . This Amendment may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties hereto and delivered to the other parties hereto. This Amendment may be executed by facsimile signature. The terms of Article 13 of the Purchase Agreement shall apply to this Amendment, as applicable.
Miscellaneous
     (b) . Except as specifically provided for in this Amendment, the Purchase Agreement shall remain unmodified and in full force and effect.
Purchase Agreement in Effect
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has caused this Amendment to be executed as of the date first written above.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Harris Corporation (NYSE:HRS), an international communications and information technology company, has announced the spin-off of a majority-owned subsidiary, the completion of a major acquisition, company-wide cost-reduction initiatives, and the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets in its Broadcast Communications segment. As a result of lower amortization expense in Broadcast Communications, the company has increased its earnings guidance for fiscal 2010, which begins July 4, 2009.
MELBOURNE, Fla., June 1, 2009
The distribution of the approximately 56 percent of the outstanding shares of Harris Stratex Networks, Inc., owned by Harris occurred on May 27, 2009. Harris shareholders of record, as of 5:30 p.m. Eastern Time on May 13, 2009, the record date for the spin-off, received 0.248418 of a share of Harris Stratex Class A common stock for each share of Harris common stock held.
Spin-off of Harris Stratex Networks, Inc.
As expected, the spin-off will result in a $60 million to $70 million after-tax charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, which will be reflected in discontinued operations in Harris' financial statements and is related to the write-down of Harris Stratex net assets to the fair value of the Harris Stratex shares distributed to Harris shareholders and other spin-off related charges. Harris recently filed a Form 8-K including pro forma historical financial statements, reflecting the classification of Harris Stratex in discontinued operations.
In addition, Harris will incur a non-cash share-based compensation charge of approximately $4 million related to the adjustment of outstanding employee stock options to reflect the spin-off of Harris Stratex. The charge will be included in Harris fourth quarter fiscal 2009 results from continuing operations.
On May 29, 2009, Harris completed its previously announced acquisition of the Tyco Electronics Wireless Systems business (formerly known as M/A-COM). Wireless Systems is an established provider of mission-critical wireless communications systems for law enforcement, fire and rescue, and public service organizations.
Acquisition of Wireless Systems Business
Excluding acquisition-related charges, the acquisition is expected to be neutral to Harris non-GAAP earnings in fiscal 2009 and slightly accretive in fiscal 2010. The acquisition is expected to be a significant contributor to Harris earnings in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012.
 
"The combination of the Wireless Systems business with our very successful RF Communications business creates a powerful supplier in the growing $9 billion global land mobile radio systems market," said Howard L. Lance, chairman, president and CEO of Harris. "This acquisition greatly accelerates our entry into the federal, state and local public safety markets and creates a significant opportunity for new growth. The acquisition was completed ahead of schedule and integration activities are underway."
The company also announced a number of cost-reduction actions across its business segments and at its corporate headquarters. Cost-reduction initiatives are expected to result in charges in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 that total $24 million to $28 million and are expected to result in annualized cost savings of approximately $70 million to $75 million.
Cost-Reduction Actions
"As we previously indicated, the global economic slowdown, pressure on Department of Defense spending, and contract delays are negatively impacting orders in the second half of fiscal 2009," Lance said. "We have initiated a number of cost-reduction actions across the company to ensure the best possible operating performance in fiscal 2010, while still allowing investment in new technology, products and markets. Beyond fiscal 2010, the company is well-positioned to return to growth."
The company has concluded that the current carrying value of its goodwill and other intangible assets related to its Broadcast Communications segment is impaired. Harris performs an annual impairment review, as required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 "Goodwill and Intangible Assets." The timing of the review coincides with the fourth quarter strategic planning cycle. The review indicated that the fair value of goodwill and other intangible assets has been reduced below its carrying value because the current market conditions have resulted in reduced levels of capital expenditures related to broadcast infrastructure systems.
Asset Impairment Charge at Broadcast Communications
As of the fiscal third quarter ended April 3, 2009, the book value of the goodwill and other intangible assets in the Broadcast Communications segment was $928 million. Harris expects to record a $250 million to $275 million non-cash charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 to write down a significant portion of these assets. The company expects to finalize this estimate by the end of fiscal 2009. This will result in lower amortization expense in fiscal 2010 of approximately $20 million, compared with fiscal 2009.
As a result of lower amortization expense in the Broadcast Communications segment, the company increased its fiscal 2010 guidance range for non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations to $3.20 to $3.50 per diluted share ($3.05 to $3.40 per diluted share on a GAAP basis), compared to the previous non-GAAP earnings guidance range of $3.10 to $3.40 per diluted share ($2.95 to $3.30 per diluted share on a GAAP basis). Revenue from continuing operations in fiscal 2010 is still expected to be in a range of $4.9 billion to $5.1 billion. Fiscal 2010 non-GAAP earnings guidance excludes acquisition-related costs.
Updated Earnings Guidance
 
To reflect the above charges for cost-reduction actions and share-based compensation related to the Harris Stratex spin-off, the company revised guidance for non-GAAP earnings per diluted share from continuing operations for fiscal 2009 ending July 3, 2009, from the low end of the range of $3.93 to $4.03 ($3.88 to $3.98 on a GAAP basis) to a range of $3.77 to $3.79 ($2.07 to $2.29 on a GAAP basis). Non-GAAP earnings guidance excludes acquisition-related costs and the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. Revised fiscal 2009 non-GAAP earnings guidance for continuing operations represents an increase of 13 percent compared to the prior-year. Revenue from continuing operations for fiscal 2009 is still expected to increase by approximately 7 percent compared with fiscal 2008. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures is provided in Table 1 and 2, along with the accompanying notes.
Harris is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets worldwide. Headquartered in Melbourne, Florida, the company has approximately $5 billion of annual revenue and 15,000 employees  including nearly 7,000 engineers and scientists. Harris is dedicated to developing best-in-class products, systems, and services. Additional information about Harris Corporation is available at
About Harris Corporation
assured communications
www.harris.com
This press release contains non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the SEC, including fiscal 2009 guidance excluding acquisition-related costs and , impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets and fiscal 2010 guidance excluding acquisition-related costs. Harris management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that may, or could, have a disproportionately positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze Harris business trends and to understand Harris performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting, and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management compensation purposes. Any analysis of non-GAAP financial measures should be used only in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
.
Attachments:
Financial Statements (two tables)
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations, assumptions, and estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Such statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements in this press release include but are not limited to: the impact of the acquisition of the Tyco Electronics Wireless Systems business on Harris earnings, and the amount of expected charges relating to the spin-off of Harris Stratex Networks, the amount of charges and savings related to the cost-reduction actions, earnings and revenue guidance for fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010 and statements regarding outlook, including expected revenue and growth opportunities. The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results and future trends to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. The Company's consolidated results and the forward-looking statements could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to: the loss of our relationship with the U.S. government or a shift in U.S. government funding; potential changes in U.S. government or customer priorities; risks inherent with large long-term fixed-price contracts, particularly the ability to contain cost overruns; financial and government and regulatory risks relating to international sales and operations; our ability to continue to develop new products that achieve market acceptance; the consequences of future geo-political events; strategic acquisitions and the risks and uncertainties related thereto, including our ability to manage and integrate acquired businesses; performance of our subcontractors and suppliers; potential claims that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties; the successful resolution of patent infringement claims and the ultimate outcome of other contingencies, litigation and legal matters; customer credit risk; risks inherent in developing new technologies; changes in our effective tax rate; the potential impact of natural disasters on our significant operations in Florida, California and other locations; changes in future business conditions that could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired; and the recession in the United States and general downturn in the global economy. Further information relating to factors that may impact the company's results and forward-looking statements are disclosed in the company's filings with the SEC. The forward-looking statements contained in this press release are made as of the date of this press release, and the company disclaims any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements
Pamela Padgett at 321-727-9383, or Jim Burke at 321-727-9131, or For additional information, contact Harris Corporation at .
Investor Relations inquiries:
pamela.padgett@harris.com
Media inquiries:
jim.burke@harris.com
webmaster@harris.com
 
To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we provide additional measures of segments' operating income (loss); cost of product sales and services; engineering, selling and administrative expenses; income (loss) before income taxes and minority interest; income taxes; minority interest; net income (loss); and net income (loss) per diluted share adjusted to exclude certain costs, charges, expenses, gains and losses. Harris management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that may, or could, have a disproportionately positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Harris management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze Harris business trends and to understand Harris performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting, and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management compensation purposes. Any analysis of non-GAAP financial measures should be used only in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP follows:
 
 
Notes to tables 1 and 2:
 Adjustment for the $.01 per diluted share impact of integration and other charges associated with our acquisition of Multimax Incorporated.
Note A
 Adjustment for the $.01 per diluted share impact of integration and other charges associated with our acquisition of Zandar Technologies plc.
Note B
 Adjustment for the estimated impact of $10 million to $15 million ($.05 to $.07 per diluted share) and $20 million to $30 million ($.10 to $.15 per diluted share) for fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010, respectively, related to integration and other charges associated with our acquisition of Tyco Electronics Wireless Systems business.
Note C
 Adjustment for the estimated impact of $1.45 to $1.63 per diluted share impact for the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets in our Broadcast Communications Systems segment.
Note D


