FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20100803162757.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     
The information contained in this Current Report on
Form 8-K
that is furnished under this Item 2.02 and 7.01, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and 7.01 of
Form 8-K
and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section. The information contained in this Current Report on
Form 8-K
that is furnished under this Item 2.02 and 7.01, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     On August 3, 2010, Harris Corporation ("") issued a press release announcing, among other things, its results of operations and financial condition as of and for its fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and full fiscal year 2010 and updated guidance regarding expected income from continuing operations per diluted share and revenue for fiscal 2011. The full text of the press release and related financial tables is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Harris
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
     The press release includes a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures, including income from continuing operations and income from continuing operations per diluted share in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009; operating income and operating margin for the RF Communications segment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010; operating income for the RF Communications segment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009; operating income and operating margin for the Government Communications Systems segment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010; guidance for income from continuing operations per diluted share in fiscal 2011; and the percentage increase in guidance for income from continuing operations per diluted share in fiscal 2011 compared with income from continuing operations per diluted share in fiscal 2010; in each case excluding, as the case may be, the impact of charges for certain costs and expenses associated with the acquisitions of the Tyco Electronics Wireless Systems business (""), Crucial Security, Inc. (""), the Air Traffic Control business unit of SolaCom Technologies Inc. (""), Patriot Technologies, LLC (""), SignaCert, Inc. ("") and CapRock Communications ("") and charges for a non-cash impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets in the Broadcast Communications segment; and also including organic revenue growth for the RF Communications segment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, adjusting for the impact of the acquisition of Wireless Systems during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. A "non-GAAP financial measure" is generally defined as a numerical measure of a company's historical or future performance that excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments, so as to be different from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (""). Income from continuing operations and income from continuing operations per diluted share in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009; operating income and operating margin for the RF Communications segment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010; operating income for the RF Communications segment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009; operating income and operating margin for the Government Communications Systems segment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010; guidance for income from continuing operations per diluted share in fiscal 2011; and the percentage increase in guidance for income from continuing operations per diluted share in fiscal 2011 compared with income from continuing operations per diluted share in fiscal 2010; in each case excluding, as the case may be, the impact of charges for certain costs and expenses associated with the acquisitions of Wireless Systems, Crucial, SolaCom ATC, Patriot, SignaCert and CapRock and charges for a non-cash impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets in the Broadcast Communications segment; and also including organic revenue growth for the RF Communications segment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, adjusting for the impact of the acquisition of Wireless Systems during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, are financial measures that are not defined by GAAP and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, income from continuing operations, income from continuing operations per diluted share, and other financial measures on a GAAP basis. Harris has included in its press release a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in the press release to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
Wireless Systems
Crucial
SolaCom ATC
Patriot
SignaCert
CapRock
GAAP
     Harris management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that may, or could, have a disproportionate positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Harris management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze trends in Harris' business and to understand Harris' performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management compensation purposes. Please refer to Harris' financial statements and accompanying footnotes for additional information and for a presentation of results in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
          The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
               99.1     Press Release, issued by Harris Corporation on August 3, 2010 (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01).
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 3, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Harris Corporation (NYSE:HRS) reported GAAP income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 of $151 million, or $1.16 per diluted share, compared with a loss of $84 million, or $.63 per diluted share, in the prior-year quarter. Non-GAAP income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 was $161 million, or $1.24 per diluted share, compared with $120 million, or $.90 per diluted share, in the prior-year quarter. Non-GAAP income excludes acquisition-related costs in both quarters as well as pre-tax charges of $256 million for a non-cash impairment of goodwill and intangible assets in the Broadcast Communications segment in the prior-year fourth quarter. Revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 was $1.46 billion, compared with $1.29 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Orders in the fourth quarter were $1.72 billion, compared with $1.29 billion in the prior-year quarter. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures is provided in Tables 5 through 8, along with the accompanying notes.
MELBOURNE, Florida, August 3, 2010
"Harris achieved another quarter of strong results with orders, revenue and income all significantly higher than in the prior year, driven primarily by continuing strong demand and excellent operating performance in RF Communications," said Howard L. Lance, chairman, president and chief executive officer. Harris fourth quarter orders were significantly higher than revenue, thus adding to an already strong backlog as we enter fiscal 2011. In Tactical Radio Communications, backlog increased to a record $1.24 billion driven by strength in both U.S. and international markets.
"As previously announced, Harris completed the acquisition of CapRock Communications, a global provider of mission-critical managed satellite communications solutions for the government, energy and maritime markets. With this acquisition we further increased the breadth of our capabilities, entered new vertical markets, and increased our international presence." The acquisition is expected to be slightly accretive to Harris earnings in fiscal 2011, excluding acquisition-related costs, and a more significant contributor to earnings in fiscal 2012.
assured communications
Results for Full Fiscal Year
GAAP income from continuing operations in fiscal 2010 was $562 million, or $4.28 per diluted share, compared with the prior year of $312 million, or $2.33 per diluted share. Non-GAAP income from continuing operations in fiscal 2010 was $582 million, or $4.43 per diluted share, compared with the prior year of $516 million, or $3.85 per diluted share. Non-GAAP income excludes acquisition-related costs in both fiscal years as well as pre-tax charges of $256 million for a non-cash impairment of goodwill and intangible assets in the Broadcast Communications segment in the prior year. Revenue in fiscal 2010 was $5.21 billion compared with $5.01 billion in the prior year.
 
The company generated strong cash flow from operations of $803 million in fiscal 2010, which was significantly higher compared with the prior year of $667 million.
RF Communications
Fourth quarter orders for the RF Communications segment totaled $890 million, including $711 million in Tactical Radio Communications and $179 million in Public Safety and Professional Communications. At the end of the fourth quarter, total backlog for the RF Communications segment was $1.76 billion, including $1.24 billion in Tactical Radio Communications and $527 million in Public Safety and Professional Communications.
Revenue for RF Communications in the fourth quarter was $630 million, compared with $468 million in the prior-year quarter. Revenue included $486 million in Tactical Radio Communications and $144 million in Public Safety and Professional Communications. Organic growth for the segment was 22 percent.
Operating income for RF Communications was $220 million in the fourth quarter, compared with $134 million in the prior-year quarter. Non-GAAP operating income, which excludes acquisition-related costs, was $227 million, compared with $144 million in the prior-year quarter. Non-GAAP operating margin was very strong at 36.0 percent due to favorable product mix and operational efficiencies.
New orders for Tactical Radio Communications systems in the fourth quarter were driven by several factors, including continued customer adoption of next-generation Falcon III radios, equipping the military's MRAP and M-ATVs (Mine Resistant Ambush Protected All-Terrain Vehicles) with Falcon II and Falcon III radios, and strengthening international demand.
Major Falcon III radio wins in the U.S. market included a $24 million order from the U.S. Air Force for Falcon III AN/PRC-152(C) multiband handheld radios; orders from the U.S. Department of Defense of $20 million and $11 million for Falcon III AN/PRC-117G multiband manpack radio systems and $17 million for Falcon III AN/PRC-152(C) handheld radios; an $11 million order from the U.S. Marine Corps to upgrade existing Falcon III AN/VRC-110 multiband, multimode vehicular tactical radio systems from 20-watt to 50-watt systems; and orders of $13 million and $27 million for Falcon III AN/PRC-152(C) multiband handheld radio systems in vehicular adapters to equip the military's MRAP vehicle program.
 
Other significant U.S. orders in the fourth quarter included a $139 million order to provide additional Falcon II AN/VRC-104 high-frequency (HF) tactical radio systems for the MRAP vehicle program and also a $101 million order for Falcon II AN/PRC-117F multiband vehicular radios to equip the next phase of M-ATV purchases and to retrofit other existing MRAP vehicles.
Growing demand in the international market was a key driver in the quarter of higher than expected orders and backlog for tactical radios. International wins in the quarter also included several Falcon III awards. Harris received orders totaling $99 million from a customer in Asia for the next phase of a comprehensive, multi-level C4I system of Falcon II HF radios and Falcon III radios, including RF-7800S secure personal radios, RF-7800M multiband networking radios, and RF-7800W high-capacity line-of-sight radios; a $30 million order from a customer in the Middle East for Falcon II HF radio systems; an $11 million order from a customer in Central Asia for Falcon II and Falcon III radios to support its role as a Partnership for Peace nation; and orders totaling $26 million from two NATO countries for Falcon III AN/PRC-152(C) handheld radios.
In the Public Safety and Professional Communications business, Harris received a $30 million order to deploy a P25 trunked emergency radio communications system to support up to 25,000 public service and public safety users in Monroe County, New York. Other major orders included $23 million for an OpenSky communications system from an energy company in the southwest U.S.; $9 million from Franklin County, North Carolina for a P25 radio communications system; and $5 million from the New York State Police for Unity XG-100P multiband radios.
Government Communications Systems
Fourth quarter revenue for the Government Communications Systems segment was $707 million, compared with $704 million in the prior-year quarter. Operating income was $74 million in the fourth quarter, compared with $77 million in the prior-year quarter. Non-GAAP operating income, which excludes acquisition-related costs, was $78 million in the fourth quarter, and was unchanged from the prior-year quarter. Non-GAAP operating margin was a strong 11.0 percent in the fourth quarter.
Revenue increased for the Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite  Series R Ground Segment (GOES-R GS) weather program for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the Modernization of Enterprise Terminals (MET) program for the U.S. Army, the Joint Strike Fighter program for the Department of Defense, and the IT services relocation program for the U.S. Southern Command (USSOUTHCOM). As expected, revenue from the Field Data Collection Automation (FDCA) program for the U.S. Census Bureau's 2010 census declined $50 million compared with the prior-year quarter as the program nears completion. Revenue also benefited from recent acquisitions related to new growth initiatives, primarily in Healthcare Solutions.
 
In the fourth quarter, Harris was awarded a six-year, $97 million contract with the Federal Aviation Administration for the Weather and Radar Maintenance and Sustainment Services II program. The scope includes software maintenance releases, depot support, on-site field support, and engineering services at 22 operational FAA facilities in the U.S. Harris also was awarded in the quarter a 30-month, $25 million contract to modernize and support high-bandwidth network cabling at Air National Guard (ANG) sites nationwide; a $55 million contract for advanced satellite terminals under the U.S. Army's MET program; and a $25 million contract from a national intelligence customer.
Following the close of the quarter, Harris was awarded a 10-year, $130 million contract to supply antennas and control systems for NOAA's Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite Series-R (GOES-R) program. The antennas will provide communications links for command, telemetry and sensor data, as well as the communications link to direct data users. The new antennas will operate with next-generation GOES-R satellites and will be compatible with existing GOES-N through GOES-P satellites.
Broadcast Communications
Orders in the Broadcast Communications segment were $111 million in the fourth quarter and were weaker compared with the prior-year quarter of $127 million. Revenue in the fourth quarter was $128 million compared with the prior-year quarter of $130 million.
Operating loss in the fourth quarter was $21 million and included $7 million in charges related to cost-reduction actions and $6 million in inventory write-downs associated with weaker demand. Operating results reflected continuing market weakness in the traditional U.S. broadcast market as well as increased investment to address new media and international growth opportunities. Additional cost-reduction actions are planned for fiscal 2011 and are expected to result in additional charges of about $7 million.
Orders in the fourth quarter included $9 million for turnkey, high-power AM radio transmitter systems for the Pakistan Broadcasting Corporation funded through USAID; $4 million for the Korean Broadcasting System for high-powered AM radio transmitters; $3 million for Viditec S.A. in Argentina to begin to deploy the country's first digital terrestrial transmission system; and $3 million for TCN Channel Nine PTY LTD. in Australia to continue to build out the company's playout and news centers.
 
Earnings Guidance
Due to the acquisition of CapRock Communications, the company increased its guidance for non-GAAP income from continuing operations for fiscal 2011 to a range of $4.60 to $4.70 per diluted share ($4.55 to $4.65 per diluted share on a GAAP basis), representing a year-over-year increase of 4 to 6 percent. This compares with a previous range of $4.55 to $4.65 per diluted share ($4.55 to $4.65 per diluted share on a GAAP basis). Fiscal 2011 non-GAAP earnings guidance excludes acquisition-related costs.
Fiscal 2011 revenue is now expected to be in a range of $5.9 to $6.0 billion, representing a year-over-year increase of 13 to 15 percent compared with the prior year. This compares with a previous range of $5.5 to $5.6 billion.
Harris will host a conference call today, August 3, at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time (ET) to discuss its fourth quarter fiscal 2010 financial results. The dial-in numbers for the teleconference are (800) 299-0148 (U.S.) and (617) 801-9711 (International), using participant code 93828851. Please allow at least 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time to connect to the teleconference. Participants are encouraged to listen via webcast, which will be broadcast live at . A replay of the teleconference will be available beginning at 7:30 p.m. ET on August 3, and will run until midnight ET on Tuesday, August 10. To access the replay, please call (888) 286-8010 (U.S.) or (617) 801-6888 (International), access code 90846456. A recording of the call also will be available on the Harris website beginning at 7 p.m. ET on August 3.
www.harris.com/conference-call
About Harris Corporation
Harris is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 150 countries. Headquartered in Melbourne, Florida, the company has approximately $5 billion of annual revenue and more than 15,000 employees  including nearly 7,000 engineers and scientists. Harris is dedicated to developing best-in-class products, systems, and services. Additional information about Harris Corporation is available at .
assured communications
www.harris.com
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release contains non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the SEC, including income from continuing operations and income from continuing operations per diluted share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and for fiscal 2010, in each case excluding charges for acquisition-related costs; income from continuing operations and income from continuing operations per diluted share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and for fiscal 2009, in each case excluding charges for acquisition-related costs and for impairment of goodwill and intangible assets in the Broadcast Communications segment; operating income and margins for the RF Communications and the Government Communications Systems segments, excluding acquisition-related costs; organic revenue growth for the RF Communications segment for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, adjusting for the impact of the acquisition of the Tyco Electronics Wireless Systems business acquired during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009; and fiscal 2011 guidance for income from continuing operations per diluted share and the percentage increase of fiscal 2011 guidance for income from continuing operations per diluted share over fiscal 2010 non-GAAP income from continuing operations per diluted share, in each case excluding acquisition-related costs. Harris management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that may, or could, have a disproportionately positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze Harris business trends and to understand Harris performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting, and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management compensation purposes. Any analysis of non-GAAP financial measures should be used only in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP.
.
Attachments:
Financial Statements (tables)
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations, assumptions, and estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Such statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements in this release include but are not limited to: earnings and revenue guidance for fiscal 2011; the potential value of contract awards; and statements regarding outlook, including expected revenue and orders. The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results and future trends to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. The company's consolidated results and the forward-looking statements could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to: the loss of our relationship with the U.S. government or a shift in U.S. government funding; potential changes in U.S. government or customer priorities; risks inherent with large long-term fixed-price contracts, particularly the ability to contain cost overruns; financial and government and regulatory risks relating to international sales and operations; our ability to continue to develop new products that achieve market acceptance; the consequences of future geo-political events; strategic acquisitions and the risks and uncertainties related thereto, including our ability to manage and integrate acquired businesses; performance of our subcontractors and suppliers; potential claims that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties; the successful resolution of patent infringement claims and the ultimate outcome of other contingencies, litigation and legal matters; customer credit risk; risks inherent in developing new technologies; changes in our effective tax rate; the potential impact of natural disasters or other disruptions on our operations; changes in future business conditions that could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired; and the recession in the United States and general downturn in the global economy. Further information relating to factors that may impact the company's results and forward-looking statements are disclosed in the company's filings with the SEC. The forward-looking statements contained in this release are made as of the date of this release, and the company disclaims any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Pamela Padgett at 321-727-9383, or
Investor Relations inquiries:
pamela.padgett@harris.com
Jim Burke at 321-727-9131, or
Media inquiries:
jim.burke@harris.com
For additional information, contact Harris Corporation at .
webmaster@harris.com
 
 
 
 
 
To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we provide additional measures of segments' operating income (loss); cost of product sales and services; engineering, selling and administrative expenses; income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes; income taxes; income (loss) from continuing operations; and income (loss) from continuing operations per diluted share adjusted to exclude certain costs, charges, expenses and losses. Harris management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that may, or could, have a disproportionately positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Harris management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze Harris' business trends and to understand Harris' performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting, and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management compensation purposes. Any analysis of non-GAAP financial measures should be used only in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to tables 5 through 8:
 Adjustments to cost of product sales and services for the quarter ended July 2, 2010 are due to integration costs associated with our acquisition of the Tyco Electronics Wireless Systems business ("Wireless Systems") from Tyco Electronics Ltd. ($0.7 million). Adjustments to cost of product sales and services for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2010 are due to integration costs and the impact of a step up in inventory associated with our acquisition of Wireless Systems ($5.7 million). Adjustments to cost of product sales and services for the quarter and fiscal year ended July 3, 2009 are due to the impact of a step up in inventory associated with our acquisition of Wireless Systems ($1.2 million).
Note A
 Adjustments to engineering, selling and administrative expenses for the quarter ended July 2, 2010 are due to integration and other costs associated with our acquisitions of Wireless Systems ($5.7 million), Crucial Security, Inc. ("Crucial") ($0.1 million), the ATC Business Unit of SolaCom Technologies Inc. ("SolaCom ATC") ($0.1 million), Patriot Technologies, LLC ("Patriot") ($0.6 million), SignaCert, Inc. ("SignaCert") ($0.3 million) and CapRock Communications ("CapRock") ($2.6 million). Adjustments to engineering, selling and administrative expenses for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2010 are due to integration and other costs associated with our acquisitions of Wireless Systems ($13.6 million), Crucial ($1.5 million), SolaCom ATC ($0.9 million), Patriot ($1.5 million), SignaCert ($0.3 million) and CapRock ($2.6 million). Adjustments to engineering, selling and administrative expenses for the quarter and fiscal year ended July 3, 2009 are due to integration costs and a write-off of in-process research and development associated with our acquisition of Wireless Systems ($8.3 million) and integration costs associated with our acquisition of Crucial ($0.6 million).
Note B
 Adjustment for impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets in our Broadcast Communications segment ($255.5 million).
Note C
 Adjustments to our income taxes are primarily based on the tax rate and characterization of tax treatment on the tax return in the jurisdiction to which the item applies.
Note D
 Adjustments to our RF Communications segment operating income for the quarter ended July 2, 2010 are due to integration costs associated with our acquisition of Wireless Systems ($6.4 million). Adjustments to our RF Communications segment operating income for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2010 are due to integration costs and the impact of a step up in inventory associated with our acquisition of Wireless Systems ($19.3 million). Adjustments to our RF Communications segment operating income for the quarter and fiscal year ended July 3, 2009 are due to the impact of a step up in inventory, integration costs and a write-off of in-process research and development associated with our acquisition of Wireless Systems ($9.5 million).
Note E
 Adjustments to our Government Communications Systems segment operating income for the quarter ended July 2, 2010 are due to integration and other costs associated with our acquisitions of Crucial ($0.1 million), SolaCom ATC ($0.1 million), Patriot ($0.6 million), SignaCert ($0.3 million) and CapRock ($2.6 million). Adjustments to our Government Communications Systems segment operating income for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2010 are due to integration and other costs associated with our acquisitions of Crucial ($1.5 million), SolaCom ATC ($0.9 million), Patriot ($1.5 million), SignaCert ($0.3 million) and CapRock ($2.6 million). Adjustments to our Government Communications Systems segment operating income for the quarter and fiscal year ended July 3, 2009 are due to integration costs associated with our acquisition of Crucial ($0.6 million).
Note F
 Adjustment for pre-tax charges of $19.3 million ($.11 per diluted share) for fiscal 2010 related to integration and other costs associated with our acquisition of Wireless Systems.
Note G
 Adjustment for pre-tax charges of $4.2 million ($.02 per diluted share) for fiscal 2010 related to integration and other costs associated with our acquisitions of Crucial, SolaCom ATC, Patriot and SignaCert.
Note H
 Adjustment for pre-tax charges of $2.6 million ($.02 per diluted share) for fiscal 2010 and estimated pre-tax charges of $10.0 million ($.05 per diluted share) for fiscal 2011 related to integration and other costs associated with our acquisition of CapRock.
Note I
 Adjustment related to the revenue of Wireless Systems for the quarter ended July 3, 2009.
Note J
 
We have retrospectively applied the provisions of a newly issued accounting standard requiring that unvested share-based payment awards that contain rights to receive nonforfeitable dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) be treated as participating securities and that such awards be included in the calculations of income per basic and diluted share using the two-class method. The application of the two-class method decreased GAAP diluted earnings per share by $.01 and $.02 for the quarter ended July 2, 2010 and fiscal year ended July 2, 2010, respectively, and decreased non-GAAP diluted earnings per share by $.02 for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2010. There was no impact to non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010.
There was no impact to GAAP diluted earnings per share for the first and second quarters of fiscal 2010 and there was a $.01 decrease in GAAP diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2010 from the application of the two-class method. There was a decrease in non-GAAP diluted earnings per share by $.01 in each of the first three quarters of fiscal 2010 from the application of the two-class method.


