FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20101027161253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
As disclosed below in Item 5.07, at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Harris Corporation (the "Company") held on October 22, 2010, the Company's shareholders approved the Harris Corporation Annual Incentive Plan (the "Annual Incentive Plan"), with an effective date of July 3, 2010. A summary description of the Annual Incentive Plan is contained in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on September 2, 2010 (the "Prior Form 8-K"), and such summary description is incorporated herein by reference. The summary description of the Annual Incentive Plan in the Prior Form 8-K is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by, and should be read in conjunction with the complete text of the Annual Incentive Plan which was filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Prior Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference.
VOTING RESULTS OF 2010 ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS
The 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Company was held on October 22, 2010. For more information about the proposals set forth below, please see the Company's definitive Proxy Statement filed with the SEC on September 17, 2010. A total of 111,831,834 (or approximately 86.7%) of the Company's shares issued, outstanding and entitled to be voted at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders were represented in person or by proxy at the meeting. Set forth below are the final voting results for the proposals voted on at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
(1) Proposal 1  Election of Directors: Election of seven nominees to the Company's Board of Directors for a one-year term expiring at the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, or until their successors are elected and qualified:
Each nominee for a one-year term was elected by the Company's shareholders, as recommended by the Company's Board of Directors.
Additionally, the three-year terms of the following previously elected directors continued after the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and are due to expire at the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders:
Lewis Hay III Karen Katen Stephen P. Kaufman Hansel E. Tookes II
Commencing at the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, all directors will be elected on an annual basis.
 
(2) Proposal 2  Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm: Ratification of the Audit Committee's appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending July 1, 2011:
Proposal 2 was approved by the Company's shareholders, as recommended by the Company's Board of Directors.
(3) Proposal 3  Approval of the Harris Corporation Annual Incentive Plan:
Proposal 3 was approved by the Company's shareholders, as recommended by the Company's Board of Directors.
(4) Proposal 4  Re-approval of the performance measures for the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan:
Proposal 4 was approved by the Company's shareholders, as recommended by the Company's Board of Directors.
(5) Proposal 5  Shareholder Proposal: Consideration of a shareholder proposal requesting approval of an amendment to the Company's By-Laws to require an independent chairman of the board:
Proposal 5 was rejected by the Company's shareholders, as recommended by the Company's Board of Directors.
CHANGES TO ANNUAL COMPENSATION OF OUTSIDE DIRECTORS
On October 21, 2010, the Corporate Governance Committee of the Company's Board of Directors recommended for approval, and the Company's Board of Directors approved on October 22, 2010, the following changes to outside director compensation effective January 1, 2011:
 
A Summary of Annual Compensation of Outside Directors effective January 1, 2011 is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference.
DESIGNATION OF LEAD INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
As previously disclosed in the Company's Proxy Statement for its 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the Company's Board of Directors' leadership structure includes a Lead Independent Director position. The Company's independent directors designate one of the Company's independent Board members to serve as Lead Independent Director, a position that rotates annually among the chairpersons of each of the standing committees of the Company's Board of Directors. On October 22, 2010, the Company's independent directors designated Lewis Hay III, Chairperson of the Corporate Governance Committee, to serve as Lead Independent Director for a term expiring immediately after the Company's 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, or until his successor is designated and qualified.
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K or incorporated herein by reference:
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
The following table summarizes the annual compensation of our outside directors to be effective on January 1, 2011. Employee directors are not compensated for service as a director.
NOTES TO TABLE
 
(1) Under the terms of the Harris Corporation 2005 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2009), as amended (the "2005 Directors' Plan"), on January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1 (each such day an "Award Date") of each year, Harris credits each non-employee director's account with a number of Harris stock equivalent units having a fair market value equal to $29,000 (for an annual rate of $116,000), which amount may be changed from time to time by the Board. In addition, under the 2005 Directors' Plan, prior to the commencement of a calendar year each non-employee director may make an irrevocable election to defer all or a portion of his or her director compensation for the subsequent year or years. Amounts deferred at the election of the non-employee director may be invested in investment alternatives similar to those available under the Harris Corporation 401(k) Retirement Plan or in Harris stock equivalent units, pursuant to which a non-employee director's account is credited with a number of units of Harris stock equivalents based upon the fair market value of Harris common stock on the date of deferral. Such Harris stock equivalent units are equivalent in value to our shares of common stock. A non-employee director may not transfer or reallocate amounts invested in other investments into Harris stock equivalents. Amounts credited in Harris stock equivalents may be reallocated into any other investment alternatives, provided director minimum stock ownership guidelines are satisfied. Deferred amounts and investment earnings on such amounts are payable in cash following the non-employee director's resignation, retirement, or death. Each Harris stock equivalent unit is credited with dividend equivalents, which are deemed reinvested in additional Harris stock equivalent units on the dividend payment date.
 
Amounts invested in Harris stock equivalents shall be appropriately adjusted in the event of any stock dividend or split, recapitalization, merger, spin-off, extraordinary dividends, or other similar events.
A non-employee director may elect to receive amounts deferred under the 2005 Directors' Plan, including amounts deferred in the form of Harris stock equivalent units, either in a cash lump sum on a date certain within five years of his or her resignation or retirement or in annual substantially equal cash installments over a designated number of years beginning on a date certain within five years of a director's resignation or retirement, provided that all amounts are fully paid within ten years of resignation or retirement.
Within ninety (90) days of a Change of Control (as defined in the 2005 Directors' Plan), and to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, each non-employee director (or former non-employee director) will receive a lump sum cash payment equal to the then remaining balance in his or her account.
The foregoing summary description of the 2005 Directors' Plan is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of the 2005 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan.


