FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20100805165834.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On July 30, 2010, Harris Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "" or ""), acquired CapRock Holdings, Inc. ("") and its subsidiaries (together with CapRock Holdings, collectively, "") through the merger (the "") of Canyon Merger Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Harris (""), with and into CapRock Holdings, with CapRock Holdings being the surviving corporation in the Merger and becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of Harris, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 21, 2010 (the ""), among Harris, CapRock Holdings, Merger Sub, and, solely for purposes of Sections 7.11, 9.1 and 9.8 of the Merger Agreement, certain holders of the issued and outstanding equity securities of CapRock Holdings (the "") and, for purposes of the provisions of the Merger Agreement that apply to the Stockholder Representative (as defined in the Merger Agreement), ABRY Partners V, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the ""). Harris previously disclosed the entry into the Merger Agreement in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Harris with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") on May 27, 2010.
Company
Harris
CapRock Holdings
CapRock
Merger
Merger Sub
Merger Agreement
Major Stockholders
Stockholder Representative
SEC
Harris paid a purchase price for CapRock of an aggregate amount in cash equal to $525 million, which will be distributed to the holder of warrants to purchase shares of Class A Common Stock of the Company and holders of the issued and outstanding equity securities of the Company, net of CapRock's indebtedness and unpaid transaction expenses and tax liability as of the closing, but plus CapRock's cash and cash equivalents as of the closing, and subject to certain further customary post-closing upward or downward adjustments as set forth in the Merger Agreement.
CapRock is a global provider of mission-critical managed satellite communications solutions for the energy, government and maritime industries and provides its customers with secure, highly-reliable managed communication services including broadband Internet access, voice over IP, networking and real-time video delivered to harsh and remote locations around the world. Prior to the entry into the Merger Agreement and related documentation, there was no material relationship between former shareholders of CapRock Holdings, on the one hand, and Harris or any of Harris' affiliates, or any director or officer of Harris, or any associate of any such director or officer, on the other hand.
The foregoing description of the Merger, the Merger Agreement and the transaction contemplated thereby is only a summary, does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of the Merger Agreement, which was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to Harris' Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 27, 2010, and is incorporated in this Item 2.01 by reference.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Arrangement or an Obligation Under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
Harris funded a portion of the purchase price for its acquisition of CapRock through the issuance of approximately $340,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes under its commercial paper program ("CP Notes"). As of July 30, 2010, the CP Notes had maturities ranging from three days to twenty-one days. The CP Notes were issued and sold pursuant to an exemption from registration under federal and state securities laws. The CP Notes are not redeemable prior to maturity and are not subject to voluntary prepayment. The outstanding CP Notes constitute a direct financial obligation of Harris. Subject to Harris' capital needs, market conditions and alternative capital market opportunities, Harris expects to maintain indebtedness under its commercial paper program by continually repaying and reissuing CP Notes until such time, if any, as the outstanding CP Notes are replaced with longer-term debt or all or a portion of the outstanding CP Notes are otherwise repaid with available funds. However, Harris' commercial paper balance may increase or decrease in the short term due to working capital needs and cash balances. Harris may currently issue unsecured short-term promissory notes up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of up to $750,000,000 under the program. The program is supported by the $750,000,000 Revolving Credit Agreement that was entered into by Harris on September 10, 2008. Harris' commercial paper program was previously described in Harris' Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 18, 2007. As of the close of business on July 30, 2010 following the acquisition of CapRock, Harris had cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of approximately $220.7 million.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On July 30, 2010, Harris issued a press release in which it announced that it had completed the acquisition of CapRock. The full text of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The information contained in this Item 7.01, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Exchange Act
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
          The following exhibit is filed herewith:
          The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 5, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Harris Corporation (NYSE:HRS), an international communications and information technology company, has completed its previously announced acquisition of CapRock Communications. Privately held CapRock was purchased for $525 million in cash, subject to post-closing adjustments. Private equity firm ABRY Partners was the majority owner of CapRock.
MELBOURNE, FL/HOUSTON, TX, July 30, 2010
CapRock Communications CEO Peter Shaper will serve as president of the business, which will operate as a wholly owned subsidiary of Harris Corporation.
With nearly three decades of experience, CapRock Communications is a premier global satellite communications provider for the energy, government, maritime, engineering and construction and mining industries as well as for disaster recovery services. The company uses the latest field-proven satellite technologies to deliver highly-reliable managed communications services, including broadband Internet, voice over IP, secure networking and real-time video, to the world's harshest and most remote locations. CapRock leverages best-of-breed partnerships, technical expertise and a robust global infrastructure that includes four self-owned and operated teleports and eleven regional support centers across North America, Central and South America, Europe, West Africa and Asia Pacific.
More information about CapRock and the acquisition is available at .
www.harris.com
Harris is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 150 countries. Headquartered in Melbourne, Florida, the company has approximately $5 billion of annual revenue and more than 15,000 employees  including nearly 7,000 engineers and scientists. Harris is dedicated to developing best-in-class products, systems, and services. Additional information about Harris Corporation is available at .
About Harris Corporation
assured communications
www.harris.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations, assumptions and estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Such statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results and future trends to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. Statements about the expected value and anticipated benefits of the transaction to Harris are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties. Other factors that may impact the company's results and forward-looking statement may be disclosed in the company's filings with the SEC. Harris disclaims any intention or obligation, except as imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Pamela Padgett at 321-727-9383, or
Investor Relations inquiries:
pamela.padgett@harris.com
Jim Burke at 321-727-9131, or
Media inquiries:
jim.burke@harris.com
For additional information, contact Harris Corporation at .
webmaster@harris.com


