FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20100902172744.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
1.     Compensation Actions.
On August 28, 2010, the independent members of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Harris Corporation (the "Company" or "Harris") approved certain compensation actions with respect to Howard L. Lance, the Company's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. On August 27, 2010, the Management Development and Compensation Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board approved certain compensation actions with respect to the Company's other "named executive officers" (pursuant to Instruction 4 to Item 5.02 of Form 8-K, those executive officers previously included in the Summary Compensation Table in the Proxy Statement for the Company's 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders) who are currently employed with the Company (together, the "named executive officers"). The approved compensation actions for the named executive officers were in respect of both fiscal 2010 (which ended July 2, 2010) and fiscal 2011 (which began July 3, 2010), as described below.
     
(i) Fiscal 2010 Cash Payouts Under the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan:
          Cash payouts under the Harris Corporation 2005 Annual Incentive Plan (the "2005 Annual Incentive Plan") in respect of fiscal 2010 were approved based on performance measures and other individual performance objectives established early in fiscal 2010. The pre-established performance measures included revenue and operating income or segment revenue and operating income. Approved payouts to the named executive officers were as follows: Howard L. Lance  $1,690,000; Gary L. McArthur  $527,000; Robert K. Henry  $739,000; and Daniel R. Pearson  $335,000.
     
(ii) Fiscal 2010 Performance Share Award Payouts Under the 2005 Equity Incentive Plan:
          Performance share award payouts under the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, as previously amended, in respect of the fiscal 2008-2010 three-year performance period were approved based on performance measures established early in fiscal 2008. The pre-established performance measures consisted of the Company's cumulative earnings before interest and taxes ("EBIT") and average annual return on invested capital ("ROIC"), weighted equally, over the fiscal 2008-2010 performance period and the Company's EBIT growth and average annual ROIC over the fiscal 2008-2010 performance period compared with the Standard and Poor's 500 and Midcap 400 indices. Approved payouts to the named executive officers were as follows: Howard L. Lance  38,250 shares; Gary L. McArthur  7,250 shares; Robert K. Henry  12,250 shares; and Daniel R. Pearson  5,250 shares.
     
(iii) Base Salaries:
          The following annual base salaries were approved for the named executive officers, effective August 28, 2010: Howard L. Lance  $1,050,000; Gary L. McArthur  $550,000; Robert K. Henry  $560,000; and Daniel R. Pearson  $480,000.
     
(iv) Fiscal 2011 Minimum, Target and Maximum Cash Award Levels under the Annual Incentive Plan:
          As discussed in greater detail in Section 2 below, on August 27, 2010, the Compensation Committee recommended that the Board approve, and on August 28, 2010, the Board approved, the Harris Corporation Annual Incentive Plan (the "Annual Incentive Plan"), with an effective date of July 3, 2010, subject to approval by the shareholders of the Company.
          Minimum, target and maximum cash award levels for potential payouts under the Annual Incentive Plan in respect of fiscal 2011 were approved for the named executive officers. In addition, the performance measures that will be applied for purposes of determining such potential payouts were also
 
approved. These performance measures include: (a) the Company's revenue and operating income, weighted equally, and (b) individual performance objectives. The approved minimum, target and maximum cash award levels for the named executive officers in respect of fiscal 2011 were as follows: Howard L. Lance: $0  $1,260,000  $2,520,000; Gary L. McArthur: $0  $395,000  $790,000; Robert K. Henry: $0  $505,000  $1,010,000; and Daniel R. Pearson: $0  $345,000  $690,000. Mr. Henry will retire in September 2010 and pursuant to the terms of the Annual Incentive Plan, his payment in respect of fiscal 2011 will be pro rated.
     
(v) Fiscal 2011 Grants of Stock Options and Performance Share Awards Under the Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan:
          As discussed in greater detail in Section 3 below, on August 27, 2010, the Compensation Committee recommended that the Board approve, and on August 28, 2010, the Board approved, an amendment and restatement of the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (as so amended and restated, the "Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan"). Equity awards granted on or after August 27, 2010, including those set forth below under this paragraph (v), are made under the Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan.
: Grants of options to purchase shares of the Company's common stock under the Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan were approved for certain named executive officers as follows: Howard L. Lance  178,400 shares; Gary L. McArthur  45,800 shares; and Daniel R. Pearson  40,000 shares. The options granted have a ten-year term and have an exercise price equal to $42.87, which was the closing price per share of the Company's common stock on August 27, 2010. The options granted vest in increments over a period of three years as follows: one-third vest on the first anniversary of the grant date; an additional one-third vest on the second anniversary of the grant date; and the final one-third vest on the third anniversary of the grant date. The exercise price may be paid in cash and/or shares of the Company's common stock, or by "cashless exercise" procedures. The form of Stock Option Award Agreement Terms and Conditions (as of July 3, 2010) for the stock option grants made to such named executive officers is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Options
: Grants of performance share awards under the Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan were approved for certain named executive officers for the fiscal 2011-2013 three-year performance period, including minimum, target and maximum award levels, as follows: Howard L. Lance: 0  49,800  99,600 performance shares; Gary L. McArthur: 0  12,800  25,600 performance shares; and Daniel R. Pearson: 0  11,200  22,400 performance shares. The actual payouts of performance share awards will be in shares of the Company's common stock and will be based on the extent of achievement over the fiscal 2011-2013 performance period of performance measure targets relating to the Company's cumulative operating income and average annual ROIC, weighted equally, and taking into account the Company's total shareholder return relative to a peer group consisting of the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 Industrials Sector and Information Technology Sector (excluding semiconductor and semiconductor equipment companies). The performance share awards provide that each performance share earned and paid out will receive accrued dividend equivalents in an amount equal to the cash dividends or other distributions, if any, which are paid with respect to issued and outstanding shares of the Company's common stock during the performance period, and that payment of such dividend equivalents will be made in cash at the time of the actual payout of performance shares in respect of such performance share awards. The form of Performance Share Award Agreement Terms and Conditions (as of July 3, 2010) for the grants of performance share awards made to such named executive officers is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Performance Share Awards
     
2.
Adoption of the Harris Corporation Annual Incentive Plan.
As noted above, on August 27, 2010, the Compensation Committee recommended that the Board approve, and on August 28, 2010, the Board approved, the Annual Incentive Plan, with an effective date of July 3, 2010, subject to approval by the shareholders of the Company.
 
Summary of the Harris Corporation Annual Incentive Plan
The purpose of the Annual Incentive Plan is to promote the Company's growth and performance by linking a portion of the total annual compensation for certain key employees to attainment of those corporate and/or business unit objectives that are approved for each fiscal year of Harris. The Annual Incentive Plan has the further purpose of assisting in the attraction, retention and motivation of certain key employees. The Annual Incentive Plan is very similar to the predecessor plan, the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan, which was approved by shareholders in 2005. The Annual Incentive Plan also is designed to preserve the Company's ability to deduct in full, for Federal income tax purposes, the compensation paid to certain executive officers in connection with certain awards granted under the Annual Incentive Plan under Section of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Internal Revenue Code"). To enable compensation received in connection with cash awards granted under the Annual Incentive Plan to qualify as "qualified performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, Harris shareholders will be asked to approve the Annual Incentive Plan at the Company's 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on October 22, 2010.
162(m)
. The Annual Incentive Plan will be administered by a committee of the Board (the "Committee") appointed to administer the Annual Incentive Plan (initially the Compensation Committee), except that with respect to participation in the Annual Incentive Plan by the Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") or any other executive officer who is also a member of the Board, the Annual Incentive Plan will be administered by the Committee together with the independent directors of the Board. The Committee will be composed of not fewer than three non-employee directors, each of whom will be an independent director. The Committee may delegate to one or more of the Company's officers the authority to grant awards (other than grants to an executive officer or any person subject to 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code) under the Annual Incentive Plan. The Committee shall have the power to interpret the Annual Incentive Plan and awards granted thereunder, and all determinations of the Committee will be final, conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in the Annual Incentive Plan or any award.
Administration
. Awards may be granted to salaried employees of Harris or any subsidiary or affiliate of Harris who are selected by the Board, the Committee or the CEO. Employees intended to receive "qualified performance-based compensation" shall be designated as participants under the Annual Incentive Plan no later than 90 calendar days after the beginning of a fiscal year of Harris.
Eligibility
. For any participant in the Annual Incentive Plan who is a Harris executive officer subject to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code:
Participation by Executive Officers
Further, the maximum award payable under the Annual Incentive Plan to any participant who is an executive officer of Harris for any fiscal year of Harris will be $6,000,000, provided that if a participant is not a participant for the entire fiscal year, the maximum amount payable shall be prorated based on the number of days the individual was a participant.
Participants will have the payout of their annual incentive awards, if any, determined on the basis of the degree of achievement of performance objectives which will be established by the Committee and will be stated in terms of the attainment of specified levels of or
Awards; Performance Objectives.
 
percentage changes (as compared to a prior measurement period) in any one or more of the performance objectives. The Committee will, for each fiscal year, establish the performance objectives to apply to each participant and a formula or matrix prescribing the extent to which that participant's "target" annual incentive award will be earned based upon the degree of achievement of those performance objectives. In no event, however, will the maximum payout to that participant exceed 200% of that target annual incentive award. With respect to awards intended to be "qualified performance-based compensation," the Committee will determine the target annual incentive award, performance objectives and any related formula or matrix for each participant not later than 90 calendar days after the beginning of a fiscal year of Harris.
Any performance objective related to an award or portion of an award under the Annual Incentive Plan that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "qualified performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code will be based on one or more, or a combination of, the following criteria: return on equity; diluted earnings per share; total earnings; earnings growth; return on capital; return on invested capital; return on assets; return on sales; earnings before interest and taxes; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; revenue; revenue growth; gross margin; return on investment; increase in the fair market value of shares; share price (including, but not limited to, growth measures and total stockholder return); operating profit; net earnings; margins; new product introduction; business efficiency measures; sustainability, including energy or materials utilization; cash flow (including, but not limited to, operating cash flow and free cash flow); inventory turns; financial return ratios; market share; earnings measures/ratios; economic value added; balance sheet measurements (such as receivable turnover); internal rate of return; customer satisfaction surveys; or productivity. Performance objectives may be described in terms of Company-wide objectives or, with respect to participants who are employees, objectives that are related to the performance of the individual participant or the subsidiary, division, business unit, department or function with Harris in which the participant is employed. Performance objectives may be measured on an absolute or relative basis.
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, award or increase the amount of an annual incentive award payable to a participant (other than an executive officer subject to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code) even though not earned in accordance with the performance objectives established for such participant, or, in the event of any unusual or nonrecurring events affecting Harris or its financial statements or changes in applicable laws, regulations or accounting principles, decrease the amount of an annual incentive award otherwise payable to a participant even though earned in accordance with the performance goals established for such participant.
. Except to the extent otherwise provided by the Committee or as provided below under "Change in Control," if a participant's employment with Harris, or any subsidiary or affiliate of Harris, is terminated for any reason prior to the last day of a fiscal year of Harris, then, except in the case of death, disability, normal retirement, or an involuntary termination without cause the participant shall forfeit the award and shall not be entitled to a payment of the annual incentive award. If a participant's employment is terminated during a fiscal year of Harris due to death, disability, normal retirement or involuntary termination without cause, the participant will be entitled to a payment, pro-rated based on the number of days the individual was a participant in the Annual Incentive Plan for such fiscal year, of the annual incentive award that would have been payable if the participant had been a participant on the last day of the fiscal year.
Termination of Employment
. Upon the occurrence of a "Change in Control" (as defined below) that qualifies as a "change in control event" within the meaning of regulations adopted under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, the Company will pay, as promptly as practicable following the effective date of the Change in Control but in no event later than the earlier of (1) the 90th day following the effective date of the Change in Control and (2) the 15th day of the third month following the end of the fiscal year during which the Change in Control is effective, any awards payable to participants. In the event the Change in Control does not qualify as a "change in control event" under such regulations, the payment to participants will be made no earlier than the end of the fiscal year during which the Change in Control is effective and no later than the 15th day of the third month following the end of such fiscal year. A participant who remains employed by the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company as of the time the Change
Change in Control
 
in Control is effective shall be entitled to receive a payment notwithstanding any subsequent termination of employment for any reason. The payment to each participant will be an amount not less than the target award as originally approved for the fiscal year of Harris, notwithstanding actual results or any changes or modifications occurring after any such Change in Control.
Under the Annual Incentive Plan, a "Change in Control" generally is deemed to occur if: (i) any person is or becomes the owner, directly or indirectly, of at least 20% of Harris' voting securities; (ii) individuals who, on July 3, 2010, constituted the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board (provided that any person who subsequently becomes a director and is approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then constituting the Incumbent Directors will be considered as though such person were an Incumbent Director); (iii) a merger, consolidation, share exchange or similar form of corporate reorganization is consummated, unless immediately after such transaction (a) more than 60% of the total voting power of the company resulting therefrom is represented by shares that were Harris voting securities immediately prior thereto and such voting power is in substantially the same proportion as the Harris voting securities immediately prior to such transaction, (b) no person becomes the owner, directly or indirectly, of 20% of the voting securities of the corporation resulting from such transaction, and (c) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such transaction were Incumbent Directors at the time of the Board's approval of such transaction; (iv) the shareholders of Harris approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of Harris; or (v) Harris consummates a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of Harris.
. Prior to a Change in Control, the Board or the Committee may amend, suspend or terminate the Annual Incentive Plan from time to time, except that no such amendment or termination may be made which would alter a participant's right to receive a distribution as previously earned.
Termination or Amendment
. If any of the Company's financial statements are restated as a result of errors, omissions or fraud, the Committee may direct that the Company recover all or a portion of any such award or payment made to any, all or any class of participants with respect to any fiscal year of Harris the financial results of which are negatively affected by such restatement.
Impact of Restatement of Financial Statements upon Previous Awards ("Clawback")
. Payments made under the Annual Incentive Plan will be taxable to the recipients when paid. As described above, the Company generally intends payments under the Annual Incentive Plan to qualify as "qualified performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, and the Company will therefore seek shareholder approval of the Annual Incentive Plan. As a result, if the Company receives such shareholder approval, it will generally be entitled to a U.S. Federal income tax deduction corresponding to the amount of income recognized by the participant.
Summary of U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences
The above summary description of the Annual Incentive Plan contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of the Annual Incentive Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
     
3.
Harris Corporation Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan.
As noted above, on August 27, 2010, the Compensation Committee recommended that the Board approve, and on August 28, 2010 the Board approved, an amendment and restatement of the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, which included the following amendments, as set forth in the Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan:
 
The amendments to the Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan as described above are effective with respect to equity awards granted on or after August 27, 2010. The above summary description of the amendments to the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan set forth in the Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan and contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of the Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
     
4.
Amendments of Certain Other Compensatory Plans and Arrangements.
On August 27, 2010, the Compensation Committee recommended that the Board approve, and on August 28, 2010 the Board approved, amendments of certain other of the Company's compensatory plans and arrangements to prospectively change the definition of "Change in Control" in the same manner as described in Section 3 above under "Harris Corporation Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan."
Such amendments to the definition of "Change in Control" were made to the following compensation and benefit arrangements:
 
The foregoing description of the amendments of certain other of the Company's compensatory plans and arrangements is not a complete description. The Company will provide the full text of such amendments as exhibits to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending October 1, 2010.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statement and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K or incorporated herein by reference:
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 2, 2010
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
     1. . Under and subject to the provisions of the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010) (as may be further amended from time to time, the "") and upon the terms and conditions set forth herein (these ""), Harris Corporation (the "") has granted to the employee receiving these Terms and Conditions (the "") a Non-Qualified Stock Option (the "") to purchase such number of shares of common stock, $1.00 par value per share (the ""), of the Corporation at such designated exercise price per share as set forth in the Award Letter (as defined below) from the Corporation to the Employee. Such grant is subject to the following Terms and Conditions (these Terms and Conditions, together with the Corporation's letter to the Employee specifying the number of shares issuable upon exercise of the Option, the exercise price and certain other terms (the ""), are referred to as the "").
Stock Option  Terms and Conditions
Plan
Terms and Conditions
Corporation
Employee
Option
Common Stock
Award Letter
Agreement
          (a) Except as set forth in Sections 1(e), 2(b), 2(c) and 2(d), the Option shall not be exercisable to any extent until and unless the Employee shall have remained continuously in the employ of the Corporation until the Option shall become exercisable. The grant of the Option shall not limit or restrict the Corporation's rights to terminate the Employee's employment.
          (b) During the lifetime of the Employee, the Option shall be exercisable only by the Employee, and, except as otherwise set forth in Section 2, only while the Employee continues as an Employee of the Corporation.
          (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement, the Option shall expire no later than ten years from the grant date (the ""), and shall not be exercisable thereafter.
Expiration Date
          (d) Except as otherwise provided in the Award Letter, the Option shall vest and become exercisable as to the following shares issuable upon exercise of the Option:
               (i) After the end of one year from the grant date and prior to the end of two years from the grant date, not more than one-third of the aggregate shares issuable upon exercise of the Option;
               (ii) After the end of two years from the grant date and prior to the end of three years from the grant date, not more than two-thirds of the aggregate shares issuable upon exercise of the Option; and
               (iii) After the end of three years from the grant date, all shares issuable upon exercise of the Option.
          (e) Upon a Change in Control of the Corporation as defined in Section 11.1 of the Plan, any outstanding Option shall immediately become fully vested and exercisable.
 
     2. .
Termination of Employment
          (a) . In the event of termination of employment with the Corporation other than as a result of circumstances described in Sections 2(b), 2(c), 2(d), and 2(e) below, the Option, whether exercisable or not, shall terminate immediately upon termination of employment.
Termination of Employment
          (b) . Notwithstanding Section 1(d), in the event of the death of the Employee (x) while employed by the Corporation, (y) following the Employee's cessation of employment with the Corporation due to permanent disability of the Employee while employed by the Corporation, or (z) following the retirement of the Employee if the retirement occurred after the Employee reached age 62 and had ten or more years of full-time service with the Corporation, the Option shall immediately become fully vested and exercisable, and may be exercised by the Employee's Beneficiary (as defined in Section 4) but only until the earlier of (i) the date that is twelve (12) months following the date of death of the Employee or (ii) the Expiration Date. In the event of the death of the Employee following termination of or cessation of employment with the Corporation, unless the first sentence of this Section 2(b) is applicable, the Option may be exercised by the Employee's Beneficiary but only until the earlier of (i) the date that is twelve (12) months following the date of death of the Employee or (ii) the Expiration Date, and only to the extent that the Option was exercisable on the day immediately prior to the date of the Employee's death.
Death
          (c) . In the event of cessation of employment with the Corporation due to permanent disability of the Employee (as determined by the Corporation) while employed by the Corporation, unless the first sentence of Section 2(b) becomes applicable, the Option shall immediately become fully vested and exercisable and may be exercised by the Employee until the Expiration Date.
Disability
          (d) . In the event of retirement of the Employee, the Option may, if the retirement occurs after the Employee has reached age 55 and has ten or more years of full-time service with the Corporation, be exercised by the Employee until the Expiration Date, but only to the extent that the Option was vested and exercisable at the date of such retirement. In the event of retirement of the Employee, the Option may, if the retirement occurs after the Employee has reached age 62 and has ten or more years of full-time service with the Corporation, unless the first sentence of Section 2(b) becomes applicable, be exercised by the Employee until the Expiration Date and shall continue to vest and become exercisable after such retirement according to the schedule set forth in Section 1(d).
Retirement
          (e) . In the event of termination of employment of the Employee by the Corporation other than for Misconduct, the Option may be exercised by the Employee but only until the earlier of (i) the date that is ninety (90) days following such termination of employment or (ii) the Expiration Date, and only to the extent that the Option was vested and exercisable at the date of such termination of employment. In the event of termination of employment of the Employee by the Corporation for deliberate, willful or gross misconduct (""), as determined by the Corporation, the Option shall immediately terminate and shall not be exercisable. In the event of termination of employment of the Employee by the Employee other than as a result of death, permanent disability or retirement (in a circumstance in which Section 2(d) applies), the Option may be exercised by the Employee but only until the earlier of (i) the date that is thirty (30) days following such termination of employment or (ii) the Expiration Date, and only to the extent that the Option was vested and exercisable at the date of such termination of employment.
Involuntary or Voluntary Termination
Misconduct
 
     3. . The Option may be exercised by delivering to the Corporation at the office of the Corporate Secretary (i) a written notice, signed by the person entitled to exercise the Option, stating the designated number of shares such person then elects to purchase; provided, however, that in the discretion of the Corporation, notice sent through an approved electronic means may be substituted for a signed, written notice, (ii) payment in an amount equal to the full exercise price for the shares to be purchased, and (iii) in the event the Option is exercised by any person other than the Employee, such as the Employee's Beneficiary, evidence satisfactory to the Corporation that such person has the right to exercise the Option. Payment of the exercise price shall be made (a) in cash, (b) in previously acquired shares of Common Stock of the Corporation, or (c) in any combination of cash and such shares. Shares tendered in payment of the exercise price which have been acquired through an exercise of a stock option must have been held at least six months prior to exercise of the Option and shall be valued at the Fair Market Value. Upon the exercise of the Option, the Corporation shall cause the shares in respect of which the Option shall have been so exercised to be issued and delivered by crediting such shares to a book-entry account for the benefit of the Employee or the Employee's Beneficiary maintained by the Corporation's stock transfer agent or its designee. The Employee does not have any rights as a shareholder in respect of any shares as to which the Option shall not have been duly exercised and no rights as a shareholder shall exist prior to the proper exercise of such Option.
Exercise of Option
     4. . The Option and rights granted by the Corporation under these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement are not transferable except to family members or trusts by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, provided that the Option may not be so transferred to family members or trusts except as permitted by applicable law or regulations. The Employee may designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries (the "") to exercise any rights or receive any benefits under Section 2(b) following the Employee's death. To be effective, such designation must be made in accordance with such rules and on such form as prescribed by the Corporation for such purpose, which completed form must be received by the office of the Corporate Secretary prior to the Employee's death. If the Employee fails to designate a beneficiary, or if no designated beneficiary survives the Employee's death, the Employee's estate shall be deemed the Employee's Beneficiary. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, except as aforesaid, the Option may not be sold, exchanged, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated, encumbered or otherwise disposed of, shall not be assignable by operation of law, and shall not be subject to execution, attachment, charge, alienation or similar process. Any attempt to effect any of the foregoing shall be null and void and without effect.
Prohibition Against Transfer; Designation of Beneficiary
Employee's Beneficiary
     5. . For the purpose of these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement, (a) employment by the Corporation, any Subsidiary of or a successor to the Corporation shall be considered employment by the Corporation, and (b) references to "termination of employment," "cessation of employment," "ceases to be employed," "ceases to be an Employee" or similar phrases shall mean the last day actually worked (as determined by the Corporation), and shall not include any notice period, or any period of severance or separation pay or pay continuation (whether required by law or custom or otherwise provided) following the last day actually worked.
Employment by Corporation, Subsidiary or Successor; Termination or Cessation of Employment
     6. . These Terms and Conditions and the other portions of the Agreement: (a) shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor to the Corporation; (b) shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware and any applicable laws of the United States; and (c) except as permitted under Sections 3.2, 12 and 13.6 of the Plan, may not be amended without the written consent of both the Corporation and the Employee. The Agreement shall not in any way interfere with or limit the right of the Corporation to terminate
Miscellaneous
 
the Employee's employment or service with the Corporation at any time, and no contract or right of employment shall be implied by these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement of which they form a part.
     7. . The Corporation shall not be required to issue shares upon exercise of the Option unless and until: (a) such shares have been duly listed upon each stock exchange on which the Corporation's Common Stock is then registered; and (b) a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to such shares is then effective.
Securities Law Requirement
     8. . In consideration of the grant of the Option to the Employee under these Terms and Conditions, the Employee agrees, by the acceptance of the Option, that for a period of twelve (12) months immediately following the date of termination of employment of the Employee, the Employee shall not directly or indirectly recruit or solicit for hire or hire, or assist in any manner in the recruitment, solicitation for hire or hiring of any employee or officer of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries, or in any way induce any such employee or officer to terminate his or her employment with the Corporation or its Subsidiaries.
Non-Solicitation
     9. . The Board Committee shall have authority, subject to the express provisions of the Plan as in effect from time to time, to construe these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement and the Plan, to establish, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and to make all other determinations in the judgment of the Board Committee necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan. The Board Committee may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement in the manner and to the extent it shall deem expedient to carry the Plan into effect, and it shall be the sole and final judge of such expediency.
Board Committee Administration
     10. . These Terms and Conditions and the Agreement are made pursuant to the Plan, the provisions of which are hereby incorporated by reference. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings set forth for such terms in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms of these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement and the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern.
Incorporation of Plan Provisions

Exhibit 10.2
     1. . Under and subject to the provisions of the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010) (as may be further amended from time to time, the "") and upon the terms and conditions set forth herein (these ""), Harris Corporation (the "") has granted to the employee receiving these Terms and Conditions (the "") a Performance Share Award (the "") of such number of shares of common stock, $1.00 par value per share (the ""), of the Corporation as set forth in the Award Letter (as defined below) from the Corporation to the Employee (such shares, as may be adjusted in accordance with Sections 1(c), 1(d) and 1(e) of these Terms and Conditions, the ""). Such Award is subject to the following Terms and Conditions (these Terms and Conditions, together with the Corporation's letter to the Employee specifying the number of shares subject to the Award and the Performance Period and certain other terms (the "") and the Statement of Performance Goals (as defined below) related thereto, are referred to as the "").
Performance Share Award  Terms and Conditions
Plan
Terms and Conditions
Corporation
Employee
Award
Common Stock
Performance Shares
Award Letter
Agreement
          (a) . For purposes of the Agreement, the "" shall be the Performance Period set forth and designated as such in the Award Letter.
Performance Period
Performance Period
          (b) . Provided the Award has not previously been forfeited, as soon as administratively practicable following the expiration of the Performance Period and the satisfaction of the applicable tax withholding obligations, the Corporation shall at its option, cause the Performance Shares as to which the Employee is entitled pursuant hereto: (i) to be released without restriction on transfer by delivery to the custody of the Employee of a stock certificate registered in the name of the Employee or his or her designee or (ii) to be credited without restriction on transfer to a book-entry account for the benefit of the Employee or his or her designee maintained by the Corporation's stock transfer agent or its designee.
Release of Award
          (c) .
Satisfaction of Performance Objectives
               (i) The Performance Shares are granted to the Employee subject to the prohibitions on transfer set forth in Section 4 below, which shall lapse, if at all, based upon attainment during the Performance Period of the performance objectives set forth in the Statement of Performance Goals (however designated) delivered to the Employee at the time of the Award (the "").
Statement of Performance Goals
               (ii) The number of Performance Shares actually earned shall be contingent upon the attainment during the Performance Period of the performance objectives set forth in the Statement of Performance Goals. The number of Performance Shares actually earned shall be determined upon the expiration of the Performance Period in accordance with the
 
Statement of Performance Goals. The final determination of the number of Performance Shares actually earned and to be released without restriction on transfer will be authorized by the Harris Board of Directors, the Board Committee, or its designee. Performance Shares will be forfeited (A) if they are not earned at the end of the Performance Period or (B) except as otherwise provided herein, if the Employee ceases to be employed by the Corporation at any time prior to the expiration of the Performance Period.
               (iii) If employment is commenced after the first day of the first fiscal year of the Performance Period (such commencement date is referred to as the ""), the Employee shall be eligible to receive a pro-rata portion of the Performance Shares which would have been issued to the Employee under the Award at the end of the Performance Period determined in accordance with the prior provisions of this Section 1(c), and the remaining Performance Shares subject to the Award shall be automatically forfeited. Such forfeited portion shall be measured by a fraction, of which the numerator is the number of days between the first day of the first fiscal year of the Performance Period and the Start Date, and the denominator is the number of days of the Performance Period. Other than with respect to the final payout, the pro-ration pursuant to this Section will not otherwise impact the Award (e.g., the Employee will have full voting rights).
Start Date
          (d) .
Rights During Performance Period; Dividend Equivalents
               (i) During the Performance Period, the Employee may exercise full voting rights with respect to all Performance Shares subject to the Award but shall not have any other rights as a shareholder with respect to such Performance Shares.
               (ii) If, at any time during the Performance Period, the Corporation pays a dividend or makes other distributions on the Common Stock, then on or about the date the Performance Shares are released pursuant to Section 1(b), the Corporation shall pay to the Employee the dividends or other distributions paid or payable during the Performance Period on the number of Performance Shares that are actually earned. No such dividends or other distributions will be paid in respect of Performance Shares that are forfeited or cancelled. No interest shall be paid on any such dividends or distributions. If any such dividend or distribution is paid in securities of the Corporation (including additional shares of Common Stock), such securities shall be subject to the same restrictions and conditions as the Performance Shares in respect of which such dividend or distribution was made.
               (iii) If the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock is changed as a result of a stock dividend, stock split or the like, without additional consideration to the Corporation, the Performance Shares subject to this Award shall be adjusted to correspond to the change in the Corporation's outstanding shares of Common Stock. For the avoidance of doubt, upon the expiration of the Performance Period, the Employee may exercise voting rights and shall be entitled to receive dividends and other distributions with respect to the number of shares to which the Employee is entitled pursuant hereto.
          (e) . The number of Performance Shares subject to the Award is based upon the assumption that the Employee shall continue to perform substantially the same duties throughout the Performance Period, and such number of Performance Shares
Adjustments to Award
 
may be reduced or increased by the Board of Directors or the Board Committee or its designee without formal amendment of the Agreement to reflect a change in duties during the Performance Period.
     2. . Except in the event of a Change in Control covered in Section 5 herein or as otherwise provided in the Award Letter, if the Employee ceases to be an employee of the Corporation prior to the expiration of the Performance Period:
Forfeiture; Termination of Employment
          (a) for any reason other than (i) death, (ii) permanent disability (as determined by the Corporation), (iii) retirement after age 55 with ten or more years of full-time service, or (iv) involuntary termination of employment of the Employee by the Corporation other than for Misconduct, all Performance Shares subject to the Award shall be automatically forfeited upon such termination of employment; or
          (b) due to (i) death, (ii) permanent disability, (iii) retirement after age 55 with ten or more years of full-time service, or (iv) involuntary termination of employment by the Corporation other than for Misconduct, the Employee shall be eligible to receive a pro-rata portion of the Performance Shares which would have been issued to the Employee under the Award at the end of the Performance Period determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 1(c) hereof, and the remaining Performance Shares subject to the Award shall be automatically forfeited. Such pro-rata portion shall be measured by a fraction, of which the numerator is the number of days of the Performance Period during which the Employee's employment continued, and the denominator is the number of days of the Performance Period. Termination of employment of the Employee by the Corporation for deliberate, willful or gross misconduct, as determined by the Corporation, shall constitute "."
Misconduct
     3. . If the Employee transfers employment from one business unit of the Corporation or an Affiliate to another business unit or Affiliate during a Performance Period, the Employee shall be eligible to receive the number of Performance Shares determined by the Board of Directors or the Board Committee or its designee based upon such factors as the Board of Directors or the Board Committee or its designee, as the case may be, in its sole discretion may deem appropriate.
Transfer of Employment
     4. . Until the expiration of the Performance Period and payout of the Award pursuant to Section 1(b), the Award and the Performance Shares subject to the Award and the rights granted under these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement are not transferable except to family members or trusts by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, provided that the Award and the Performance Shares subject to the Award may not be so transferred to family members or trusts except as permitted by applicable law or regulations. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, except as aforesaid, until the expiration of the Performance Period and payout of the Award pursuant to Section 1(b), the Award and such shares may not be sold, exchanged, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated, encumbered or otherwise disposed of, shall not be assignable by operation of law, and shall not be subject to execution, attachment, charge, alienation or similar process. Any attempt to effect any of the foregoing shall be null and void and without effect.
Prohibition Against Transfer
 
     5. . (a) Upon a Change in Control of the Corporation as defined in Section 11.1 of the Plan, the performance objectives shall be conclusively deemed to have been attained immediately upon the occurrence of such Change in Control. The Performance Shares subject to the Award shall be released without restriction on transfer to the Employee at the end of the Performance Period; , , that, following such Change in Control but prior to the end of the Performance Period: (i) in the event of the Employee's death, termination due to permanent disability, retirement after age 55 with ten or more years of full-time service, or involuntary termination other than for Cause, the Performance Shares subject to the Award shall be vested immediately and released without restriction on transfer as soon as administratively practicable; (ii) in the event of the Employee's resignation or termination for Cause, the Performance Shares subject to the Award shall be forfeited; and (iii) in the event of a "change in the Corporation's capital structure," the Performance Shares subject to the Award shall be vested immediately and, at the election of the Employee, released without restriction on transfer or shall be converted and paid in cash. The amount of the cash payment made under this Section 5 will be an amount equal to the number of Performance Shares subject to the Award multiplied by the highest price per share paid in any transaction reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index: (A) during the sixty (60) day period preceding and including the date of a "change in the Corporation's capital structure;" or (B) during the sixty (60) day period preceding and including the date of the Change in Control. An Award in Performance Shares or cash shall be paid as soon as administratively practicable following a "change in the Corporation's capital structure," but no later than the end of the calendar year in which the change in the Corporation's capital structure occurs.
Change in Control
provided
however
          (b) For purposes hereof, a shall be deemed to have occurred if:
"change in the Corporation's capital structure"
               (i) the Common Stock is no longer the only class of the Corporation's common stock;
               (ii) the Common Stock ceases to be, or is not readily, tradable on an established securities market (in the United States) within the meaning of Section 409 (l)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended;
               (iii) the Corporation issues warrants, convertible debt, or any other security that is exercisable or convertible into Common Stock, except for rights granted under the Plan; or
               (iv) the ratio of total debt to total capitalization exceeds 45 percent. Total debt is the total debt for borrowed money. Total capitalization is consolidated total assets of the Corporation less consolidated total liabilities of the Corporation.
          (c) "" shall mean (i) a material breach by the Employee of the duties and responsibilities of the Employee (other than as a result of incapacity due to physical or mental illness) which is (A) demonstrably willful, continued and deliberate on the Employee's part, (B) committed in bad faith or without reasonable belief that such breach is in the best interests of the Corporation and (C) not remedied within fifteen (15) days after receipt of written notice from the Corporation which specifically identifies the manner in which such breach has
Cause
 
occurred or (ii) the Employee's conviction of, or plea of to, a felony involving willful misconduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Corporation. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board or based upon the advice of counsel for the Corporation shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in good faith and in the best interests of the Corporation. Cause shall not exist unless and until the Corporation has delivered to the Employee a copy of a resolution duly adopted by three-quarters (3/4) of the entire Board at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose (after thirty (30) days notice to the Employee and an opportunity for the Employee, together with counsel, to be heard before the Board), finding that in the good faith opinion of the Board an event set forth in clauses (i) or (ii) has occurred and specifying the particulars thereof in detail. The Corporation must notify the Employee of any event constituting Cause within ninety (90) days following the Corporation's knowledge of its existence or such event shall not constitute Cause under these Terms and Conditions.
nolo contendere
     6. . In consideration of the grant of the Award to the Employee under these Terms and Conditions, the Employee agrees, by the acceptance of the Award, that for a period of twelve (12) months immediately following the date of termination of employment of the Employee, the Employee shall not directly or indirectly recruit or solicit for hire or hire, or assist in any manner in the recruitment, solicitation for hire or hiring of any employee or officer of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries, or in any way induce any such employee or officer to terminate his or her employment with the Corporation or its Subsidiaries.
Non-Solicitation
     7. . These Terms and Conditions and the other portions of the Agreement: (a) shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor of the Corporation; (b) shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware and any applicable laws of the United States; and (c) except as permitted under Sections 3.2, 12 and 13.6 of the Plan, may not be amended without the written consent of both the Corporation and the Employee. The Agreement shall not in any way interfere with or limit the right of the Corporation to terminate the Employee's employment or service with the Corporation at any time, and no contract or right of employment shall be implied by these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement of which they form a part. For the purposes of these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement, (a) employment by the Corporation, any Subsidiary or a successor to the Corporation shall be considered employment by the Corporation, and (b) references to "termination of employment," "cessation of employment," "ceases to be employed," "ceases to be an Employee" or similar phrases shall mean the last day actually worked (as determined by the Corporation), and shall not include any notice period, or any period of severance or separation pay or pay continuation (whether required by law or custom or otherwise provided) following the last day actually worked. If the Award is assumed or a new award is substituted therefor in any corporate reorganization (including, but not limited to, any transaction of the type referred to in Section 424(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended), employment by such assuming or substituting corporation or by a parent corporation or subsidiary thereof shall be considered for all purposes of the Award to be employment by the Corporation.
Miscellaneous
     8. . The Corporation shall not be required to issue shares pursuant to the Award, to the extent required, unless and until (a) such shares have been duly listed upon each stock exchange on which the Corporation's Common Stock is then
Securities Law Requirements
 
registered; and (b) a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to such shares is then effective.
     9. . The Board Committee shall have authority, subject to the express provisions of the Plan as in effect from time to time, to construe these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement and the Plan, to establish, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and to make all other determinations in the judgment of the Board Committee necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan. The Board Committee may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement in the manner and to the extent it shall deem expedient to carry the Plan into effect, and it shall be the sole and final judge of such expediency.
Board Committee Administration
     10. . Non-recurring losses or charges which are separately identified and quantified in the Corporation's audited financial statements and notes thereto including, but not limited to, extraordinary items, changes in tax laws, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, impact of discontinued operations, restructuring charges, restatement of prior period financial results, shall be excluded from the calculation of performance results for purposes of the Plan. However, the Board Committee can choose to include any or all such non-recurring items as long as inclusion of each such item causes the Award to be reduced.
Adjustments
     11. . If any of the Corporation's financial statements are restated, as a result of errors, omissions, or fraud, the Board Committee may (in its sole discretion, but acting in good faith) direct that the Corporation recover all or a portion of any Award or payment made to the Employee with respect to any fiscal year of the Corporation the financial results of which are negatively affected by such restatement. The amount to be recovered shall be the amount by which the affected Award or payment exceeded the amount that would have been payable had the financial statements been initially filed as restated, or any greater or lesser amount (including, but not limited to, the entire Award) that the Board Committee shall determine. The Board Committee shall determine whether the Corporation shall effect any such recovery: (a) by seeking repayment from the Employee; (b) by reducing the amount that would otherwise be payable to the Employee under any compensatory plan, program or arrangement maintained by the Corporation, a Subsidiary or any of its Affiliates; (c) by withholding payment of future increases in compensation (including the payment of any discretionary bonus amount) or grants of compensatory awards that would otherwise have been made in accordance with the Corporation's otherwise applicable compensation practices; or (d) by any combination of the foregoing or otherwise (subject, in each of subclause (b), (c) and (d), to applicable law, including without limitation Section 409A of the Code, and the terms and conditions of the applicable plan, program or arrangement. This Section 11 shall be a non-exclusive remedy and nothing in this Section 11 shall preclude the Company from pursuing any other applicable remedies available to it, whether in addition to, or in lieu of this Section 11.)
Impact of Restatement of Financial Statements upon Awards
     12. . These Terms and Conditions and the Agreement are made pursuant to the Plan, the provisions of which are hereby incorporated by reference. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth for such terms in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms of these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement and the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern.
Incorporation of Plan Provisions

Exhibit 10.3
     1. The purpose of the Harris Corporation Annual Incentive Plan is to promote the growth and performance of the Company by: (i) linking a portion of the total annual compensation for certain key employees to attainment of such corporate, subsidiary, division and business unit objectives as shall be approved for each Plan Year; and (ii) assisting in the attraction, retention and motivation of certain key employees.
Purpose of the Plan.
     2. Wherever the following capitalized terms are used in the Plan, they shall have the meanings specified below:
Definitions.
     means any entity that is directly or indirectly controlled by the Company or any entity in which the Company has a significant ownership interest, as determined by the Committee.
"Affiliate"
     means a right to receive an annual cash incentive payment pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
"Award"
     means the Board of Directors of the Company.
"Board"
     shall have the meaning set forth in
"Change in Control"
Section 
13(d)
.
     means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
"Code"
     means a committee of the Board designated by the Board to administer the Plan which shall be comprised solely of three or more Independent Directors, and which initially shall be the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board.
"Committee"
     means Harris Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
"Company"
     means a member of the Board.
"Director"
     means any salaried employee of the Company, any Subsidiary or any Affiliate, including any officers or Executive Officers (whether or not a Director), who is treated as an employee in the personnel records of the Company or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates for the relevant period, but shall exclude individuals who are classified by the Company, any Subsidiary or any Affiliate as (i) leased or otherwise employed by a third party; (ii) independent contractors; or (iii) intermittent or temporary, in each case even if any such classification is changed retroactively as a result of an audit, litigation, or otherwise.
"Employee"
     means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"Exchange Act"
 
     means a Participant the Board has designated as an executive officer of the Company for purposes of reporting under the Exchange Act.
"Executive Officer"
     means a Director who is not an Employee and who qualifies as (i) a "non-employee director" under Rule 16b-3(b)(3) under the Exchange Act, (ii) an "outside director" under Section 162(m) of the Code, and (iii) an "independent director" under the rules and listing standards adopted by the New York Stock Exchange or any other exchange upon which the Company's common stock is listed for trading.
"Independent Director"
     means any Employee designated by the Board, the Committee or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company (pursuant to a delegation under ) to participate in the Plan for a Plan Year or a portion of a Plan Year.
"Participant"
Section 3(c)
     means the performance objectives established pursuant to the Plan for Participants. Performance Objectives may be described in terms of Company-wide objectives or objectives that are related to the performance of the individual Participant or the Subsidiary, division, business unit, department or function with the Company in which the Participant is employed. Performance Objectives may be measured on an absolute or relative basis. Relative performance may be measured by a group of peer companies or by a financial market index. The Committee may grant Awards subject to Performance Objectives that are Qualified Performance-Based Awards or are not Qualified Performance-Based Awards. Any Performance Objectives applicable to a Qualified Performance-Based Award shall be based on one or more, or a combination of the following criteria: return on equity; diluted earnings per share; total earnings; earnings growth; return on capital; return on invested capital; return on assets; return on sales; earnings before interest and taxes; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; revenue; revenue growth; gross margin; return on investment; increase in the fair market value of shares; share price (including, but not limited to, growth measures and total stockholder return); operating profit; net earnings; margins; new product introduction; business efficiency measures; sustainability, including energy or materials utilization; cash flow (including, but not limited to, operating cash flow and free cash flow); inventory turns; financial return ratios; market share; earnings measures/ratios; economic value added; balance sheet measurements (such as receivable turnover); internal rate of return; customer satisfaction surveys; or productivity. Performance Objectives applicable to Awards that are not Qualified Performance-Based Awards shall not be limited to the categories listed above, and with respect to such Awards the Committee may designate any other types or categories of Performance Objectives as it shall determine, including categories involving individual performance and subjective targets.
"Performance Objectives"
     means this Harris Corporation Annual Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.
"Plan"
     means a fiscal year of the Company.
"Plan Year"
     means any Award or portion of an Award that
"Qualified Performance-Based Award"
 
is intended to satisfy the requirements for "qualified performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code.
     means any entity of which the Company owns or controls, either directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the outstanding shares of stock normally entitled to vote for the election of directors or of comparable equity participation and voting power.
"Subsidiary"
     3. 
Administration of Plan.
          (a) The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. With respect to participation in the Plan by the Chief Executive Officer or any other Executive Officer that is also a Director, the Plan shall be administered by the Committee with the other Independent Directors of the Board. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee shall have such powers and authority as may be necessary or appropriate for the Committee to carry out its functions as described in the Plan. The Committee shall have the authority in its discretion to determine: (i) which Employees shall receive Awards; (ii) the amount of the Awards; (iii) the objectives and the other terms and conditions of such Awards, including the Performance Objectives, targets and other terms and conditions of an Award; and (iv) whether Performance Objectives have been achieved. Determinations by the Committee under the Plan, including without limitation, determinations of the Participants, the amount and timing of Awards and the terms and provisions of Awards, need not be uniform and may be made selectively among Participants and Employees who receive or are eligible to receive Awards. The Committee shall have the full power, discretion and authority to interpret the Plan, to establish, amend, suspend and rescind any rules and regulations relating to the Plan and to make all other determinations that it deems necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. The Board Committee may impose conditions with respect to an Award, such as limiting solicitation of employees or former employees or limiting competitive employment or other activities. The Committee may correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award in the manner and to the extent it shall deem desirable to carry it into effect. All such interpretations, rules, regulations and determinations shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons (including the Company and Participants) and for all purposes.
Powers of Committee; Discretion.
          (b) If the Committee does not exist, or for any other reason determined by the Board, the Board may take any action under the Plan that would otherwise be the responsibility of the Committee.
Board Authority.
          (c) Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law or the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange or any other exchange upon which the Company's securities are listed for trading, the Committee shall have the right, from time to time, to delegate to one or more officers of the Company the authority of the Committee to grant and determine the terms and conditions of Awards granted under the Plan, subject to such limitations as the Committee shall determine. In no event shall any such delegation of authority be permitted with respect to Awards to any Executive Officer or any person subject to Section 162(m) of the Code. The Committee shall also be permitted to delegate, to any appropriate officer or employee of the Company, responsibility for performing certain ministerial functions
Delegation.
 
under the Plan. In the event that the Committee's authority is delegated to officers or employees in accordance with the foregoing, all references in the Plan relating to the Committee shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with the foregoing by treating any such reference as a reference to such officer or employee for such purpose. Any action undertaken in accordance with the Committee's delegation of authority hereunder shall have the same force and effect as if such action was undertaken directly by the Committee and shall be deemed for all purposes of the Plan to have been taken by the Committee.
          (d) No member of the Board or Committee, nor any officer or employee delegated authority by the Committee, shall be liable for any action or determination made in good faith by the Board, Committee or such officer or employee with respect to the Plan or any Award.
Limitation on Liability.
     4. All Employees are eligible to be designated by the Committee to receive Awards and become Participants under the Plan. Participants in the Plan shall be selected by the Committee. In selecting Employees to be Participants and in determining the amount of an Award to be granted under the Plan and the terms and conditions of the Award, the Committee shall consider any and all factors that it deems relevant or appropriate. Awards need not be uniform and may be made selectively among Participants and Employees who receive or are eligible to receive Awards. Employees intended to receive Qualified Performance-Based Awards shall be designated as Participants by the Committee not later than 90 calendar days after the beginning of the Plan Year, and in a manner consistent with Section 162(m) of the Code.
Eligibility; Designation of Participants.
     5. 
Annual Incentive Awards.
          (a) Each Participant in the Plan shall be eligible to receive such Award, if any, for each Plan Year as may be payable pursuant to the Performance Objectives and criteria applicable for such Participant. The Committee shall, on an annual basis, establish a "target annual incentive award" for a Participant for a Plan Year, and the maximum payout shall not exceed 200% of such target annual incentive award.
In General.
          (b) Participants shall have the payout of their annual incentive awards, if any, determined on the basis of the degree of achievement of Performance Objectives which shall be established by the Committee in writing and which Performance Objectives shall be stated in terms of the attainment of specified levels of or percentage changes (as compared to a prior measurement period) in any one or more of the Performance Objectives. The Committee shall, for each Plan Year, establish the Performance Objectives to apply to each Participant and a formula or matrix prescribing the extent to which such Participant's annual incentive award shall be earned based upon the degree of achievement of such Performance Objective or Performance Objectives. The Committee may determine that the annual incentive award payable to any Participant shall be based upon the attainment of Performance Objectives comparable to those specified above but in whole or in part applied to the results of a Subsidiary, division or business unit. With respect to Awards intended to be a Qualified Performance-Based Award, the Committee shall determine the target annual incentive award, Performance
Performance Objectives.
 
Objectives and any related formula or matrix for each Participant not later than 90 calendar days after the beginning of the Plan Year.
          (c) A Participant's target annual incentive award or Performance Objectives may be changed by the Committee during the Plan Year to reflect a change in responsibilities provided that in the case of Awards intended to be a Qualified Performance-Based Award any such change shall be made in a manner consistent with Section 162(m) of the Code.
Transfer of Employment.
          (d) Except as provided in and , the Committee may, in its sole discretion, (i) award or increase the amount of an annual incentive award payable to a Participant even though not earned in accordance with the Performance Objectives established pursuant to this , or (ii) in the event of any unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements or changes in applicable laws, regulations or accounting principles, decrease the amount of an annual incentive award otherwise payable to a Participant even though earned in accordance with the Performance Objectives established pursuant to this
Committee Adjustment.
Section 6
Section 14
Section 5
Section 5.
     6. 
Participation by Executive Officers.
          (a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, the following provisions shall be applicable to participation in the Plan by Executive Officers who are subject to Section 162(m) of the Code:
Qualified Performance-Based Awards.
               (i) Each such Participant's annual incentive award payable under the Plan for a Plan Year shall be based solely on achievement of one or more of the Performance Objectives as established by the Committee pursuant to above and the Committee shall not have the discretion provided in to increase the amount of the award payable under the Plan but it shall in all cases have the ability to reduce the amount of any such award that would otherwise be payable (including a reduction in such amount to zero).
Section 5
Section 
5(d)
               (ii) With respect to each such Participant, no annual incentive award intended to be a Qualified Performance-Based Award shall be payable under the Plan (including for the avoidance of doubt, any portion of the annual incentive award that may become payable under in the case of the Participant's termination by reason of death, disability, normal retirement or involuntary retirement without cause) except upon written certification by the Committee that the Performance Objectives have been satisfied to a particular extent and that any other material terms and conditions precedent to payment of an annual incentive award pursuant to the Plan have been satisfied.
Section 
7(b)
          (b) Notwithstanding any provisions of the Plan to the contrary, the maximum annual incentive award payable to any Participant who is an Executive Officer for any Plan Year shall be $6,000,000; provided, however, that if such a Participant is not a Participant for the entire Plan Year, the maximum amount payable shall be pro-rated based on the number of days the individual was a Participant for the Plan Year.
Maximum Award.
 
     7. 
Payment of Annual Incentive Award.
          (a) . Payment of any amount to be paid to a Participant based upon the degree of attainment of the applicable Performance Objectives shall be made in a lump sum cash payment at such time as the Committee may in its discretion determine. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event will the payment of such amount be made earlier than the day immediately following the end of the Plan Year or later than the 15 day of the third month following the end of the Plan Year.
Payments
th
          (b) . Except to the extent otherwise provided by the Committee or as provided in , if a Participant's employment with the Company, any Subsidiary or any Affiliate, is terminated prior to the last day of a Plan Year, then, except in the case of termination by reason of death, disability, normal retirement or involuntary termination without cause, the Participant shall forfeit the Award and shall not be entitled to a payment of the annual incentive award. If a Participant's employment is terminated during the Plan Year due to death, disability, normal retirement or involuntary termination without cause, the Participant shall be entitled to a pro-rated payment of the annual incentive award that would have been payable if the Participant had been a Participant on the last day of the Plan Year. If a Participant is entitled to a payment of the annual incentive award pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence, such amount shall be prorated based on the number of days the individual was a Participant in the Plan for such Plan Year and shall be paid at the same time and in the same manner as such payment would have been made if the Participant had been a Participant on the last day of the Plan Year. For purposes of the Plan, (i) a leave of absence, approved by the Committee, shall not be deemed to be a termination of employment and (ii) an involuntary termination with cause shall include, without limitation, an involuntary termination for performance reasons.
Termination of Employment
Section 13
     8. A Participant's interest in any Awards hereunder shall at all times be reflected on the Company's books as a general unsecured and unfunded obligation of the Company subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan. The Plan shall not give any person any right or security interest in any asset of the Company or any fund in which any deferred payment is deemed invested. Neither the Company, the Board, nor the Committee, nor any officer or employee of the Company, shall be responsible for the adequacy of the general assets of the Company to discharge the payment of its obligations hereunder nor shall the Company be required to reserve or set aside funds therefor.
Unfunded Plan.
     9. All rights and benefits under the Plan are personal to the Participant and neither the Plan nor any right or interest of a Participant or any other person arising under the Plan is subject to voluntary or involuntary alienation, sale, transfer, or assignment without the Company's consent. Subject to the foregoing, the Company may establish such procedures as it deems necessary for a Participant to designate one or more beneficiaries to whom any payment the Committee determines to make would be payable in the event of the Participant's death. In the event no beneficiary has been properly designated, the payment shall be made to the Participant's estate or by the laws of descent and
Non-Alienation of Benefits; Beneficiary Designation.
 
distribution.
     10. Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, the Company shall have the authority to withhold from any payment made by it under the Plan such amount or amounts as may be required for purposes of complying with any Federal, state, local or foreign tax or withholding requirements. The Company may, to the extent permitted by applicable law (including Code Section 409A), offset against any payments to be made to a Participant under the Plan any amounts owing to the Company, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates from the Participant for any reason.
Withholding for Taxes; Offset.
     11. Nothing in the Plan or in the grant of any Award shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates to terminate a Participant's employment at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continued employment with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates. Neither the adoption of the Plan nor any action by the Company, the Board, the Committee or any director or officer of the Company shall be deemed to give any Employee any right to be designated as a Participant under the Plan.
No Right to Continued Employment or to Participate.
     12. The Plan is not intended to and shall not preclude the Board from adopting, continuing, amending or terminating such additional compensation arrangement as it deems desirable for Employees.
Non-Exclusivity of Plan.
     13. 
Change in Control.
          (a) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary provided elsewhere herein, in the event of a "Change in Control" of the Company, as defined in , then an Award for the Plan Year during which the Change in Control is effective shall equal an amount not less than the target annual incentive award as originally approved for the Plan Year, notwithstanding actual results or any changes or modifications occurring after any such Change in Control.
Amount of Award
Section 13(d)
          (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary provided elsewhere herein, in the event of a "Change in Control" of the Company, as defined in , that qualifies as a "change in control event" within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5), the Company shall pay any Awards for the Plan Year during which the Change in Control is effective in a lump sum as promptly as practicable following such effective date, but in no event later than the earlier of (i) the 90 day following the effective date of the Change in Control and (ii) the 15 day of the third month following the end of the Plan Year during which the Change in Control is effective. In the event of a "Change in Control" of the Company, as defined in , that does not qualify as a "change in control event" within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5), the Company shall pay any Awards for the Plan Year during which the Change in Control is effective in a lump sum at the time set forth in .
Timing of Payment.
Section 13(d)
th
th
Section 13(d)
Section 7(a)
          (c) . A Participant who remains employed by the
Termination of Employment
 
Company, any Subsidiary or Affiliate as of the time the Change in Control is effective shall be entitled to receive the payments provided for in this , notwithstanding any subsequent termination of employment for any reason. In addition, if a Participant's employment is terminated prior to a Change in Control and the Participant reasonably demonstrates that such termination was at the request or suggestion of a third party who has indicated an intention or taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change in Control (a ""), and the Change in Control involving such Third Party actually occurs, then for purposes of this , the Participant's employment shall be deemed to have been terminated after the Change in Control is effective and the Participant shall be entitled to receive the payments provided for in this .
Section 13
Third Party
Section 13
Section 13
          (d) For purposes hereof, a shall be deemed to have occurred if:
Definition.
"Change in Control"
               (i) any "person" (as such term is defined in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act and as used in Sections 13(d)(3) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) is or becomes a "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (the ); , , that the event described in this paragraph (i) shall not be deemed to be a Change in Control by virtue of any of the following acquisitions: (a) by the Company or any Subsidiary, (b) by any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary, (c) by any underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (d) pursuant to a Non-Control Transaction (as defined in paragraph (iii));
"Company Voting Securities"
provided
however
               (ii) individuals who, on July 3, 2010, constitute the Board (the ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a Director subsequent to July 3, 2010, whose election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Directors who remain on the Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for Director, without objection to such nomination) shall also be deemed to be an Incumbent Director; , , that no individual initially elected or nominated as a Director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to Directors or any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person other than the Board of Directors shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director;
"Incumbent Directors"
provided
however
               (iii) there is consummated a merger, consolidation, share exchange or similar form of corporate reorganization of the Company or any such type of transaction involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries that requires the approval of the Company's stockholders (whether for such transaction or the issuance of securities in the transaction or otherwise) (a ), unless immediately following such Business Combination: (a) more than 60% of the total voting power of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, any corporation which directly or indirectly
"Business Combination"
 
has beneficial ownership of 100% of the Company Voting Securities) eligible to elect directors of such corporation is represented by shares that were Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination (either by remaining outstanding or being converted), and such voting power is in substantially the same proportion as the voting power of such Company Voting Securities immediately prior to the Business Combination, (b) no person (other than any publicly traded holding company resulting from such Business Combination, or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company (or the corporation resulting from such Business Combination)) becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities eligible to elect directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination, and (c) at least a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were Incumbent Directors at the time of the Board's approval of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such Business Combination (any Business Combination which satisfies the foregoing conditions specified in (a), (b) and (c) shall be deemed to be a );
"Non-Control Transaction"
               (iv) the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or
               (v) the Company consummates a direct or indirect sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a "Change in Control" of the Company shall not be deemed to occur solely because any person acquires beneficial ownership of more than 20% of the Company Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding; , if after such acquisition by the Company such person becomes the beneficial owner of additional Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities beneficially owned by such person, a "Change in Control" of the Company shall then occur.
provided
that
     14. The Committee shall be authorized to make adjustments in the method of calculating attainment of Performance Objectives in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements or changes in applicable laws, regulations or accounting principles; , , that in the case of a Qualified Performance-Based Award, any such adjustments shall be made in a manner consistent with Section 162(m) of the Code. The Committee may not make any such adjustment to any Qualified Performance-Based Award if such adjustment would cause compensation pursuant to such award to cease to be "qualified performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code. In the event the Company shall assume outstanding employee benefit awards or the right or obligation to make future such awards in connection with the acquisition of another corporation or business entity, the Committee may, in its discretion, but subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, make such adjustments in the terms of Awards under the Plan as it shall deem appropriate.
Adjustment of Awards.
provided
however
 
     15. If any of the Company's financial statements are restated as a result of errors, omissions, or fraud, the Committee may (in its sole discretion, but acting in good faith) direct that the Company recover all or a portion of any such Award or payment made to any, all or any class of Participants with respect to any Plan Year the financial results of which are negatively affected by such restatement. The amount to be recovered from any Participant shall be the amount by which the affected Award or payment exceeded the amount that would have been payable to such Participant had the financial statements been initially filed as restated, or any greater or lesser amount (including, but not limited to, the entire Award) that the Committee shall determine. The Committee may determine to recover different amounts from different Participants or different classes of Participants on such basis as it shall deem appropriate. In no event shall the amount to be recovered by the Company from a Participant be less than the amount required to be repaid or recovered as a matter of law. The Committee shall determine whether the Company shall effect any such recovery (i) by seeking repayment from the Participant, (ii) by reducing the amount that would otherwise be payable to the Participant under any compensatory plan, program or arrangement maintained by the Company, a Subsidiary or any of its Affiliates, (iii) by withholding payment of future increases in compensation (including the payment of any discretionary bonus amount) or grants of compensatory awards that would otherwise have been made in accordance with the Company's otherwise applicable compensation practices, or (iv) by any combination of the foregoing or otherwise (subject, in each of sub-clauses (ii), (iii) and (iv), to applicable law, including without limitation Section 409A of the Code, and the terms and conditions of the applicable plan, program or arrangement). This shall be a non-exclusive remedy and nothing contained in this shall preclude the Company from pursuing any other applicable remedies available to it, whether in addition to, or in lieu of, application of this .
Impact of Restatement of Financial Statements upon Previous Awards.
Section 15
Section 15
Section 15
     16. 
Deferral.
          (a) . Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, if permitted under Section 409A of the Code, in the event that all or a portion of an annual incentive award shall be ineligible for treatment as "other performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the right, with respect to any Executive Officer who is a "covered employee" under Section 162(m) of the Code, to defer such Executive Officer's receipt of payment of his or her annual incentive award until the Executive Officer is no longer a "covered employee" or until such time as shall be determined by the Committee, provided that the Committee may effect such a deferral only in a situation where the Company reasonably anticipates that it would be prohibited a deduction under Section 162(m) of the Code and such deferral shall be limited to the portion of the award that reasonably is anticipated not to be deductible.
Section 162(m) Related Deferral
          (b) The Committee may, in its discretion, permit a Participant to defer the receipt of payment of cash that would otherwise be due to the Participant. If any such deferral is to be permitted by the Committee, the Committee shall establish written rules and procedures relating to such deferral in a manner intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, including, without limitation, the time when an
Other Deferral.
 
election to defer may be made, the time period of the deferral and the events that would result in payment of the deferred amount, the interest or other earnings attributable to the deferral and the method of funding, if any, attributable to the deferred amount.
     17. Until such time as a "Change in Control" shall have occurred, the Board or the Committee may, in its sole discretion, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan from time to time, subject to any requirement for shareholder approval imposed by applicable law or regulation, including Section 162(m) of the Code, and the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange or any other exchange upon which the Company's securities are listed. Except as provided in and , no such termination or amendment shall alter a Participant's right to receive a distribution as previously earned, as to which the Plan shall remain in effect following its termination until all such amounts have been paid, except as the Company may otherwise determine.
Amendment or Termination.
Section 5(d)
Section 14
     18. All payments made under the Plan are intended to be exempt from (or comply with) the requirements of Section 409A of the Code to the maximum extent permitted. To the extent applicable, the Plan is intended to be administered and interpreted in a manner that is consistent with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no particular tax result with respect to any income recognized by a Participant in connection with the Plan is guaranteed and each Participant shall be responsible for any taxes imposed on such Participant in connection with the Plan.
Application of Code Section 409A.
     19. The provisions of the Plan are not intended, and should not be construed, to be legal, business or tax advice. The Company and any other party having any interest herein are hereby informed that the U.S. federal tax advice contained in this document (if any) is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of (i) avoiding penalties under the Code or (ii) promoting, marketing or recommending to any party any transaction or matter addressed herein.
Tax Penalty Avoidance.
     20. The validity, construction, and effect of the Plan and any rules and regulations relating to the Plan shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the conflict of law principles thereof. Unless otherwise indicated, all "Section" references are to sections of the Plan. References to any law, rule or regulation shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing, supplementing, or interpreting such law, rule or regulation.
Governing Law and Interpretation.
     21. Notwithstanding any other provision or Section of the Plan, if any provision of the Plan is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction or as to any person or award, or would disqualify the Plan or any award under any law deemed applicable by the Board or the Committee, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to conform to the applicable laws (but only to such extent necessary to comply with such laws), or if it cannot be construed or deemed amended without, in the determination of the Board or the Committee, materially altering the intent of the Plan or award, such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction, person or award and the remainder of the Plan and any such award shall remain in full force and effect.
Severability.
 
     22. Subject to its approval by the Company's shareholders, the Plan shall become effective as of July 3, 2010 for the Company's 2011 fiscal year, shall replace the Harris Corporation 2005 Annual Incentive Plan, and shall remain effective until terminated by the Board or the Committee pursuant to , subject to any further shareholder approvals (or reapprovals) mandated for performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code.
Effective Date.
Section 17
Approved and adopted by the Board of Directors this 28th day of August, 2010.

Exhibit 10.4
1. The purpose of the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan is to promote the long-term growth and performance of the Company and to increase shareholder value by providing long-term incentive awards to employees and directors. The Plan is intended to: (i) further align the interests of employees and directors with those of the shareholders by providing incentive compensation opportunities which may be tied to the performance of the Common Stock and by encouraging Common Stock ownership by officers, employees, and directors; and (ii) assist in the attraction, retention and motivation of selected individuals. The Plan is hereby amended and restated, effective August 27, 2010.
Purpose of the Plan.
2. Wherever the following capitalized terms are used in the Plan, they shall have the meanings specified below:
Definitions.
     means any entity that is directly or indirectly controlled by the Company or any entity in which the Company has a significant ownership interest, as determined by the Board Committee.
"Affiliate"
     means a Cash-Based Unit, Deferred Unit, Option, Performance Share, Performance Unit, Restricted Stock, Restricted Unit, Stock Appreciation Right, or other Share-Based Award granted under the Plan.
"Award"
     means any written or electronic agreement or other certificate, instrument, notice or document setting forth the terms and conditions of an Award granted to a Participant and includes any Cash-Based Unit Award Agreement, Deferred Unit Award Agreement, Option Agreement, Performance Share Award Agreement, Performance Unit Award Agreement, Restricted Stock Award Agreement, Restricted Unit Award Agreement, and Stock Appreciation Right Agreement. The Board Committee may, but need not, require an Award Agreement to be signed by a Participant as a precondition to receiving an Award.
"Award Agreement"
     means the Board of Directors of the Company.
"Board"
     means a committee of the Board designated by the Board to administer the Plan which shall be comprised solely of three or more Independent Directors, and which initially shall be the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board.
"Board Committee"
     means an award denominated in units, granted pursuant to , where each unit is equal in value to $1.00 or such other value as is determined by the Board Committee.
"Cash-Based Unit"
Section 5.1
     shall have the meaning set forth in
"Cash-Based Unit Award Agreement"
Section 5.1.
     shall have the meaning set forth in
"Change in Control"
Section 11.
     means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
"Code"
 
     means the common stock of the Company, $1.00 par value per share, or such other class of shares or securities as to which the Plan may be applicable pursuant to
"Common Stock"
Section 3.2.
     means Harris Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
"Company"
     means an award denominated in units, granted pursuant to , where each unit is equal in value to one Share.
"Deferred Unit"
Section 10.1
     means a bookkeeping account in the name of a Non-Employee Director established pursuant to to which Deferred Units are credited.
"Deferred Units Account"
Section 10.1
     shall have the meaning set forth in
"Deferred Unit Award Agreement"
Section 10.1.
     means a member of the Board.
"Director"
     means, on any record date, the amount of cash or other distributions (but excluding any distributions of Common Stock) equal in value to the dividends or distribution payable on shares of Common Stock as declared by the Board with respect to such dividend or distribution payment date.
"Dividend Equivalents"
     means an employee of the Company, any Subsidiary or any Affiliate, including any officers or Executive Officers (whether or not a Director), who is treated as an employee in the personnel records of the Company or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates for the relevant period, but shall exclude individuals who are classified by the Company, any Subsidiary or any Affiliate as (i) leased or otherwise employed by a third party; (ii) independent contractors; or (iii) intermittent or temporary, in each case even if any such classification is changed retroactively as a result of an audit, litigation, or otherwise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of Awards made pursuant to , the term "Employee" shall also include any person who provides services to the Company, any Subsidiary or any Affiliate that are equivalent to those typically provided by an employee.
"Employee"
Section 12(b)
     means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"Exchange Act"
     means any Participant the Board has designated as an executive officer of the Company for purposes of reporting under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
"Executive Officer"
     means, as of any particular date, the fair market value of a Share on such date as determined by the Board Committee. Unless otherwise determined by the Board Committee, the fair market value of a Share shall be the closing price per Share of the Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange consolidated transaction reporting system on the applicable date or, if no such closing price is available on such date, on the preceding day upon which such closing price is available.
"Fair Market Value"
     means Awards that result in the Company transferring the full value of any underlying Share granted pursuant to an Award. Full-Value Awards will include all Cash-Based Units, Deferred Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Restricted Stock, Restricted Units, and all other Share-Based Awards, but will not include Options or SARs.
"Full-Value Awards"
     means the date on which the grant of an Award is made by the Board Committee, or such later date as the Board Committee may specify to be the effective date of an Award.
"Grant Date"
     means an Option intended to qualify as an "incentive stock option" within
"Incentive Stock Option"
 
the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
     means a Director who is not an Employee and who qualifies as (i) a "Non-Employee Director" under Rule 16b-3(b)(3) under the Exchange Act, (ii) an "outside director" under Section 162(m) of the Code, and (iii) an "Independent Director" under the rules and listing standards adopted by the New York Stock Exchange or any other exchange upon which the Common Stock is listed for trading.
"Independent Director"
     means a Director who is not an Employee.
"Non-Employee Director"
     means an Option not intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.
"Non-Qualified Stock Option"
     means an option to purchase shares of Common Stock granted pursuant to Options granted under the Plan may be Incentive Stock Options or Non-Qualified Stock Options.
"Option"
Section 7.1.
     shall have the meaning set forth in
"Option Agreement"
Section 7.1.
     means the purchase price of each Share underlying an Option.
"Option Price"
     means any Employee or Non-Employee Director holding an outstanding Award.
"Participant"
     means the performance objectives established pursuant to the Plan for Participants who have received Awards that are subject to the achievement of performance objectives. Performance Objectives may be described in terms of Company-wide objectives or objectives that are related to the performance of the individual Participant or the Subsidiary, division, business unit, department or function with the Company in which the Participant is employed. Performance Objectives may be measured on an absolute or relative basis. Relative performance may be measured by a group of peer companies or by a financial market index. The Board Committee may grant Awards subject to Performance Objectives that are Qualified Performance-Based Awards or are not Qualified Performance-Based Awards. Any Performance Objectives applicable to a Qualified Performance-Based Award shall be based on one or more, or a combination of the following criteria: return on equity; diluted earnings per share; total earnings; earnings growth; return on capital; return on invested capital; return on assets; return on sales; earnings before interest and taxes; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization*; revenue; revenue growth; gross margin; return on investment; increase in the fair market value of shares; share price (including, but not limited to, growth measures and total stockholder return); operating profit; net earnings; margins*; new product introduction*; business efficiency measures*; sustainability, including energy or materials utilization*; cash flow (including, but not limited to, operating cash flow and free cash flow); inventory turns; financial return ratios; market share; earnings measures/ratios; economic value added; balance sheet measurements (such as receivable turnover); internal rate of return; customer satisfaction surveys; or productivity. Performance Objectives applicable to Awards that are not Qualified Performance-Based Awards shall not be limited to the categories listed above, and with respect to such Awards the Board Committee may designate any other types or categories of Performance Objectives as it shall determine, including categories involving individual performance and subjective targets. With respect to an Award intended to be a Qualified Performance-Based Award, the Board Committee shall establish in writing the Performance Objectives and any related formula or matrix not later than ninety (90) calendar days after the beginning of the Performance Period and otherwise shall satisfy the applicable requirements under Section 162(m) of the Code.
"Performance Objectives"
*
     means the period of time (not less than one year) established by the Board
"Performance Period"
 
 
Committee for achievement of Performance Objectives under
Section 5.1.
     means an award granted pursuant to of actual Shares issued to a Participant that is evidenced by book-entry registration or a certificate in the name of the Participant and to be settled in Shares.
"Performance Share"
Section 5.1
     shall have the meaning set forth in
"Performance Share Award Agreement"
Section 5.1.
     means an award, denominated in units, granted pursuant to , where each unit is equal in value to one Share.
"Performance Unit"
Section 5.1
     shall have the meaning set forth in
"Performance Unit Award Agreement"
Section 5.1.
     shall have the meaning set forth in
"Permitted Transferees"
Section 13.5.
     means this Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective August 27, 2010) and as further amended from time to time.
"Plan"
     shall have the meaning set forth in .
"Plan Effective Date"
Section 13.17(a)
     shall mean (i) the Harris Corporation 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (the "), as in effect on the Plan Effective Date, and (ii) the Harris Corporation Stock Incentive Plan, as in effect on the effective date of the 2000 Stock Incentive Plan.
"Predecessor Plans"
2000 Stock Incentive Plan"
     means any Award or portion of an Award that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "qualified performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code.
"Qualified Performance-Based Award"
     means an award granted pursuant to of actual Shares issued to a Participant that is evidenced by book-entry registration or a certificate in the name of the Participant and to be settled in Shares.
"Restricted Stock"
Section 6.1
     shall have the meaning set forth in
"Restricted Stock Award Agreement"
Section 6.1.
     means an award, denominated in units, granted pursuant to , where each unit is equal in value to one Share.
"Restricted Unit"
Section 6.1
     shall have the meaning set forth in
"Restricted Unit Award Agreement"
Section 6.1.
     means the period of time specified in an Award Agreement during which certain restrictions as to vesting and as to the sale or other disposition of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units awarded under the Plan remain in effect under If the Restriction Period will lapse by the passage of time, each such grant or sale of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units will be subject to a Restriction Period of not less than three years, as determined by the Board Committee at the Grant Date, but to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code, such Restriction Period may be modified or lapse earlier in the event of a Change in Control.
"Restriction Period"
Section 6.1.
     means any award granted under
"Share-Based Award"
Section 9.
     shall have the meaning set forth in
"Share Change"
Section 3.2.
 
     means shares of Common Stock, subject to adjustments made under or by operation of law.
"Shares"
Section 3.2
     or means the right to receive a cash payment and/or Shares from the Company equal in value to the excess of the Fair Market Value of a stated number of Shares at the exercise date over a fixed price for such Shares, which right is granted pursuant to
"Stock Appreciation Right"
"SAR"
Section 8.1.
     shall have the meaning set forth in
"Stock Appreciation Right Agreement"
Section 8.1.
     means any entity of which the Company owns or controls, either directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the outstanding shares of stock normally entitled to vote for the election of directors or of comparable equity participation and voting power; provided that in the case of an Incentive Stock Option, means a "subsidiary corporation," whether now or hereafter existing as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
"Subsidiary"
     means Awards granted in assumption of, or in substitution or exchange for, outstanding awards previously granted by an entity acquired by the Company or with which the Company combines. Any such assumption, substitution or exchange shall occur in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code (to the extent applicable thereto), including without limitation, with respect to Options and SARs, the requirements of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(b)(5)(v)(D).
"Substitute Awards"
3.
Shares Subject to Plan.
     3.1
Shares Available for Awards.
          (a) Subject to adjustment as provided in , the maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be issued or delivered under the Plan is Twenty Million (20,000,000) Shares. Any Shares underlying Full-Value Awards that are issued or delivered under the Plan shall be counted against the Twenty Million (20,000,000) Share limit described above as 1.60 Shares for every one Share issued or delivered in connection with such Award. To the extent that a Share that was subject to an Award that counted as 1.60 Shares against the Plan reserve pursuant to the preceding sentence becomes again available for grant under the Plan as set forth in , the Plan reserve shall be credited with 1.60 Shares. In no event shall the number of Cash-Based Units required to be delivered to a Participant in Shares exceed the dollar value of the maximum number of Cash-Based Units that could be earned divided by one-half of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date. Subject to adjustment pursuant to , no more than Seven Million (7,000,000) Shares shall be available for issuance pursuant to Incentive Stock Options under the Plan. Subject to adjustment pursuant to , no more than One Million (1,000,000) Shares may be issued or delivered as Share-Based Awards under and no more than One Million (1,000,000) Shares may be issued or delivered to Non-Employee Directors under Shares to be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan may be authorized and unissued Shares, treasury Shares, or any combination thereof.
Maximum Share Limitations.
Section 3.2
Section 3.1(b)
Section 3.2
Section 3.2
Section 9
Section 10.
          (b) In addition to the Shares authorized in , to the extent any Shares under the Predecessor Plans are forfeited, or any award under the Predecessor Plans otherwise terminates without the issuance of some or all of the Shares underlying the award to a participant or if any option under the Predecessor Plans terminates without having been exercised in full, the Shares underlying such award, to the extent of any such forfeiture or termination, shall be available for future grant under the Plan and credited toward the Plan limit. Further, for the avoidance of doubt, to the extent any Cash-Based Units, Deferred Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Restricted Units, Restricted Stock, or Share-Based Awards subject to an Award hereunder are forfeited, or any such Award otherwise terminates
Forfeitures, Terminations and Cash-Outs.
Section 3.1(a)
 
without the issuance or delivery of some or all of the Shares underlying the Award to a Participant, or if any Option or SAR terminates without having been exercised in full, the Shares underlying such Award, to the extent of any such forfeiture or termination, shall again be available for grant under the Plan. If the benefit provided by any Award granted under the Plan is (or can only be) paid in cash, any Shares that were (or are) covered by that Award shall again be available for grant under the Plan.
          (c) Shares that are tendered, whether by physical delivery or by attestation, to the Company by a Participant as full or partial payment of the exercise or purchase price of any Award or in payment of any applicable withholding for Federal, state, city, local, or foreign taxes incurred in connection with the exercise or earning of any Award under the Plan or under the Predecessor Plans will not become available for future grants under the Plan. With respect to Stock Appreciation Rights, when a Stock Appreciation Right is exercised and settled in Shares, the Shares subject to such Stock Appreciation Right shall be counted against the Shares available for issuance under the Plan as one Share for every one Share subject thereto, regardless of the number of Shares used to settle the SAR upon exercise.
Limitations on Reissuance of Shares.
          (d) Subject to adjustment pursuant to , the maximum number of Shares with respect to which Options and Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted to any one Participant during any fiscal year shall be One Million (1,000,000) Shares in the aggregate, including grants under the Predecessor Plans. Subject to adjustment pursuant to , the initial targeted number of Shares subject to awards of Performance Shares, Performance Units or other Full-Value Awards (that are subject to Performance Objectives) granted to any one Participant during any fiscal year shall not exceed Five Hundred Thousand (500,000) Shares in the aggregate, including grants under the Predecessor Plans, and in no event shall the number of Shares ultimately issued to a Participant pursuant to such awards of Performance Shares, Performance Units or other Full-Value Awards (that are subject to Performance Objectives) exceed 200% of the initial targeted number of Shares. In no event will any Participant in any fiscal year receive awards of Cash-Based Units having an aggregate maximum value as of their respective Grant Dates in excess of $6,000,000.
Individual Participant Limitations.
Section 3.2
Section 3.2
          (e) Any Common Stock or Award issued by the Company through the assumption or substitution of outstanding grants from a corporation or entity acquired by or combined with the Company shall not reduce the Shares available for Awards under the Plan.
Substitute Awards.
     3.2
Adjustments.
          (a) In the event of a stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, share combination or similar events, altering the value of a Share, or the number of Shares outstanding (each, a ), the maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be issued and delivered under the Plan, the maximum Award limitations set forth in the Plan, the number of Shares subject to outstanding Awards and the exercise price, base price, purchase price or Option Price and other relevant provisions of the Plan and outstanding Awards shall be proportionately and automatically adjusted as necessary to reflect the Share Change and to preserve the value of the Awards. Such adjustment shall be made by the Board Committee or the Board, whose determination in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive. Any adjustment pursuant to this shall be made in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code (to the extent applicable thereto), including without limitation, with respect to Options and SARs, the requirements of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(b)(5)(v)(D).
Adjustment to Common Stock.
"Share Change"
Section 3.2(a)
          (b) Subject to , the maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be issued and delivered under the Plan, the maximum Award limitations set forth in the Plan, the number of Shares subject to outstanding Awards and the exercise price, base price, purchase price or Option
Reorganizations, Mergers, Etc.
Section 12
 
Price and other relevant provisions of the Plan and outstanding Awards shall be adjusted by the Board Committee or the Board, in its discretion to reflect a change in the capitalization of the Company, including but not limited to, a recapitalization, repurchase, rights offering, reorganization, merger, consolidation, combination, exchange of shares, spin-off, spin-out, extraordinary cash dividends, or other distribution of assets to shareholders or other similar corporate transaction or event. To the extent deemed equitable and appropriate by the Board, subject to any required action by shareholders, in any merger, consolidation or reorganization, liquidation, or dissolution, any Award shall pertain to the securities or other property which a holder of the number of Shares covered by the Award would have been entitled to receive in connection with such event. Moreover, in the event of any such transaction or event, the Board, in its discretion, may provide in substitution for any or all outstanding Awards under the Plan such alternative consideration (including cash), if any, as it, in good faith, may determine to be equitable in the circumstances and may require in connection therewith the surrender of all Awards so replaced. Any adjustment or substitution pursuant to this shall be made in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code (to the extent applicable thereto), including without limitation, with respect to Options and SARs, the requirements of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(b)(5)(v)(D).
Section 3.2(b)
4.
Administration of Plan; Eligibility.
     4.1
Administration by the Board and Board Committee.
          (a) The Plan shall be administered by the Board Committee. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Board Committee shall have such powers and authority as may be necessary or appropriate for the Board Committee to carry out its functions as described in the Plan. The Board Committee shall have the authority in its discretion to determine: (i) which individuals shall receive Awards, (ii) the types of Awards to be made under the Plan, (iii) the number of Shares underlying Awards or amount of cash, in the case of Cash-Based Unit Awards, (iv) the other terms and conditions of such Awards, including the Option Price, exercise, base or purchase price of an Award (if any), the time or times at which an Award will become vested, exercisable or payable, the Performance Objectives and other terms and conditions of an Award, and (v) whether the Performance Objectives have been achieved. Determinations by the Board Committee under the Plan, including, without limitation, determinations of the Participants, the form, amount, and timing of Awards, and the terms and provisions of Awards and the Award Agreements evidencing Awards, need not be uniform and may be made selectively among Participants and individuals who receive or are eligible to receive Awards. The Board Committee shall have the full power, discretion and authority to interpret the Plan and the Award Agreements, to establish, amend, and rescind any rules and regulations relating to the Plan, to prescribe the form of any Award Agreement or instrument executed in connection herewith, and to make all other determinations that it deems necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. The Board Committee may impose conditions with respect to an Award, such as limiting solicitation of employees or former employees or limiting competitive employment or other activities. The Board Committee may correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award or Award Agreement in the manner and to the extent it shall deem desirable to carry it into effect. All such interpretations, rules, regulations and determinations shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons (including the Company and Participants) and for all purposes. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the Board Committee designated by the Board to administer the Plan may be different for purposes of administering Awards made to Employees and Awards made to Non-Employee Directors.
Powers of Board Committee; Discretion.
          (b) If the Board Committee does not exist, or for any other reason determined by the Board, the Board may take any action under the Plan that would otherwise be the responsibility of the Board Committee.
Board Authority.
 
          (c) The Board Committee shall have the right, from time to time, to delegate to one or more officers of the Company the authority of the Board Committee to grant and determine the terms and conditions of Awards granted under the Plan, subject to the requirements of Section 157(c) of the Delaware General Corporation Law (or any successor provision) and such other limitations as the Board Committee shall determine. The Board Committee may also, either concurrently or otherwise, delegate all or any portion of such authority to a committee of the Board consisting of or including any one or more Directors who also serve as officers of the Company. In no event shall any such delegation of authority be permitted with respect to Awards to any Director, Executive Officer or any person subject to Section 162(m) of the Code. The Board Committee shall also be permitted to delegate, to any appropriate officer or employee of the Company, responsibility for performing certain ministerial functions under the Plan. In the event that the Board Committee's authority is delegated to officers or employees in accordance with the foregoing, all references in the Plan relating to the Board Committee shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with the foregoing by treating any such reference as a reference to such officer or employee for such purpose. Any action undertaken in accordance with the Board Committee's delegation of authority hereunder shall have the same force and effect as if such action was undertaken directly by the Board Committee and shall be deemed for all purposes of the Plan to have been taken by the Board Committee.
Delegation.
          (d) No member of the Board or Board Committee nor any officer or employee delegated authority by the Board Committee pursuant to , shall be liable for any action or determination made in good faith by the Board or Board Committee or such officer or employee with respect to the Plan or any Award.
Limitation on Liability.
Section 4.1(c)
     4.2 All Employees and Non-Employee Directors are eligible to be designated by the Board Committee to receive Awards and become Participants under the Plan; provided, however, that only Non-Employee Directors are eligible to receive Deferred Units under and all Non-Employee Directors are eligible to receive such Deferred Units without regard to whether the Board Committee has designated a Non-Employee Director as eligible to receive Deferred Units; and provided further, that an employee of an Affiliate shall be designated by the Board Committee as a recipient of an Option or SAR only if Common Stock qualifies, with respect to such recipient, as "service recipient stock" within the meaning set forth in Section 409A of the Code. In selecting Employees and Non-Employee Directors to be Participants and in determining the type and amount of Awards to be granted under the Plan, the Board Committee shall consider any and all factors that it deems relevant or appropriate.
Eligibility.
Section 10
5.
Performance Share Awards, Performance Unit Awards and Cash-Based Unit Awards.
     5.1 Performance Share Awards, Performance Unit Awards and Cash-Based Unit Awards may be granted, from time to time, to such Employees and Non-Employee Directors as may be selected by the Board Committee. Except as provided in or as otherwise provided or determined by the Board Committee, the release of such Performance Share Awards or the payment of Cash-Based Unit Awards, and Performance Unit Awards, as applicable, to the Participant subject to such awards shall be contingent upon (i) the degree of attainment of the applicable Performance Objectives during the Performance Period as shall be determined by the Board Committee, (ii) the expiration of the Performance Period, and (iii) such other terms and conditions as set forth in the applicable Award Agreement. Each award under this of Performance Shares shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement ), each award under this of Performance Units shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement ), and each award under this of Cash-Based Unit Awards shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement ), which shall specify or confirm the applicable Performance Objectives, the Performance Period, forfeiture conditions and such other terms and conditions as the Board Committee shall determine. The Board Committee may determine
Awards.
Section 11
Section 5.1
("Performance Share Award Agreement"
Section 5.1
("Performance Unit Award Agreement"
Section 5.1
("Cash-Based Unit Award Agreement"
 
performance levels pursuant to which the number of Performance Shares, Performance Units, or Cash-Based Units earned may be less than, equal to, or greater than, the number of Performance Shares, Performance Units, or Cash-Based Units awarded based upon the Performance Objectives stated in the award.
     5.2
Payouts.
          (a) Performance Shares that have been earned shall immediately become nonforfeitable and the Shares underlying such award of Performance Shares shall be released by the Company to the Participant without restrictions on transfer. The Shares released by the Company hereunder may, at the Company's option, be either (i) evidenced by a certificate registered in the name of the Participant or his or her designee; or (ii) credited to a book-entry account for the benefit of the Participant maintained by the Company's stock transfer agent or its designee.
Performance Shares.
          (b) Performance Units and Cash-Based Units shall become payable to a Participant at the time or times determined by the Board Committee and set forth in the Performance Unit Award Agreement or the Cash-Based Unit Award Agreement, as the case may be. Payout of a Performance Unit Award or a Cash-Based Unit Award may be made, at the discretion of the Board Committee, in Shares or in cash, or in a combination thereof. Any cash payout of a Performance Unit Award shall be made based upon the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, determined on such date or over such time period as determined by the Board Committee. Any payout of a Cash-Based Unit Award in Shares shall be made based upon the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, determined on such date or over such time period as determined by the Board Committee.
Performance Units and Cash-Based Units.
     5.3
Rights as Shareholders.
          (a) Subject to the provisions of the applicable Performance Share Award Agreement and unless otherwise provided or determined by the Board Committee, during the Performance Period Participants may exercise full voting rights with respect to all Performance Shares granted under hereof.
Performance Shares  Voting.
Section 5.1
          (b) Subject to the provisions of the applicable Performance Unit Award Agreement or Cash-Based Unit Award Agreement, and unless otherwise provided or determined by the Board Committee, Participants shall not have any rights as a shareholder with respect to Shares underlying a Performance Unit or Cash-Based Unit until such time, if any, as any underlying Shares are actually issued to the Participant, which may, at the option of the Company be either (i) evidenced by delivery of a certificate registered in the name of the Participant or his or her designee; or (ii) credited to a book-entry account for the benefit of the Participant maintained by the Company's stock transfer agent or its designee.
Performance Units and Cash-Based Units.
          (c) . No dividends or Dividend Equivalents shall be paid on outstanding unvested or unearned Performance Shares or Performance Units. However, the Board Committee may specify that a Performance Share or Performance Unit will accrue Dividend Equivalents in an amount equal to the cash dividends or other distribution, if any, which are paid with respect to issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock during the Performance Period. If Dividend Equivalents are included with a Performance Share Award or Performance Unit Award, the Dividend Equivalents will, as determined by the Board Committee, be paid in cash or shares of Common Stock at the time of vesting of such Performance Shares and at the time of payout of such Performance Units. Dividend Equivalents will, in such case, be paid with respect to all Performance Shares that have vested or Performance Units that are paid out. No Dividend Equivalents will be paid on Performance Shares or Performance Units that are forfeited or cancelled. The Board Committee may also specify that Dividend Equivalents will be deemed to be reinvested in Common Stock.
Dividend Equivalents
 
Dividend Equivalents which are deemed reinvested in Common Stock will be converted into additional Performance Shares or Performance Units and payment of the Performance Shares or Performance Units shall include the value of such additional Performance Shares or Performance Units. No interest shall be paid on a Dividend Equivalent or any part thereof.
     5.4 If a Participant ceases to be an Employee or a Non-Employee Director, the number of Performance Shares or Performance Units (and in each case, accrued Dividend Equivalents thereon, if any) to which the Participant shall be entitled, and the number of Cash-Based Units, if any, to which the Participant shall be entitled, shall be determined in accordance with the applicable Award Agreement. All remaining Performance Shares, Performance Units or Cash-Based Units as to which the Participant may not be entitled, as well as any accrued Dividend Equivalents on such Performance Shares or Performance Units, shall be forfeited, subject to such exceptions, if any, authorized by the Board Committee.
Termination of Employment or Service.
     5.5 If a Participant transfers employment from one business unit of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates to another business unit during a Performance Period, such Participant shall be eligible to receive such number of Performance Shares, Performance Units or Cash-Based Units, as well as any accrued Dividend Equivalents, as the Board Committee may determine based upon such factors as the Board Committee in its sole discretion may deem appropriate.
Transfer of Employment.
6.
Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Unit Awards.
     6.1 Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Unit Awards, subject to such Restriction Period and such other restrictions as to vesting and otherwise as the Board Committee shall determine, may be granted, from time to time, to such Employees and Non-Employee Directors as may be selected by the Board Committee. To the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code, the Board Committee may, in its sole discretion at the time of the grant of the award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units or at any time thereafter, provide for the early vesting of such award prior to the expiration of the Restriction Period. Each award under this of Restricted Stock shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement ), and each award under this of Restricted Units shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement ), which shall specify the vesting schedule, any rights of acceleration, any forfeiture conditions, and such other terms and conditions as the Board Committee shall determine.
Awards.
Section 6.1
("Restricted Stock Award Agreement"
Section 6.1
("Restricted Unit Award Agreement"
     6.2
Payouts.
          (a) Upon expiration of the Restriction Period and satisfaction of any other terms or conditions and as set forth in the Restricted Stock Award Agreement, the Restricted Stock shall immediately become nonforfeitable and the Shares underlying such award of Restricted Stock shall be released by the Company to the Participant without restrictions on transfer. The Shares released by the Company hereunder may at the Company's option be either (i) evidenced by a certificate registered in the name of the Participant or his or her designee; or (ii) credited to a book-entry account for the benefit of the Participant maintained by the Company's stock transfer agent or its designee.
Restricted Stock.
          (b) Restricted Units shall become payable to a Participant at the time or times determined by the Board Committee and set forth in the Restricted Unit Award Agreement. Payout of a Restricted Unit Award may be made, at the discretion of the Board Committee, in Shares or in cash, or in a combination thereof. Any cash payout of a Restricted Unit shall be made based upon the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, determined on such date or over such time period as determined by the Board Committee.
Restricted Units.
 
     6.3
Rights as Shareholders.
          (a) Subject to the provisions of the applicable Restricted Stock Award Agreement and unless otherwise provided or determined by the Board Committee, during the Restriction Period Participants may exercise full voting rights with respect to the Shares of Restricted Stock granted under hereof and shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalents (rather than dividends) paid with respect to those Shares.
Restricted Stock.
Section 6.1
          (b) Subject to the provisions of the applicable Restricted Unit Award Agreement and unless otherwise provided or determined by the Board Committee, Participants shall not have any rights as a shareholder with respect to Shares underlying a Restricted Unit until such time, if any, as the underlying Shares are actually issued to the Participant, which may, at the option of the Company be either (i) evidenced by delivery of a certificate registered in the name of the Participant or his or her designee; or (ii) credited to a book-entry account for the benefit of the Participant maintained by the Company's stock transfer agent or its designee. The Board Committee may provide in a Restricted Unit Award Agreement for the payment of Dividend Equivalents to the Participant at such times as paid to shareholders generally or at the time of vesting or other payout of the Restricted Units.
Restricted Units.
     6.4 If a Participant ceases to be an Employee or a Non-Employee Director, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Units subject to the award, if any, to which the Participant shall be entitled shall be determined in accordance with the applicable Award Agreement. All remaining Shares underlying Restricted Stock or Restricted Units as to which restrictions apply at the date of termination of employment or service shall be forfeited subject to such exceptions, if any, authorized by the Board Committee.
Termination of Employment or Service.
7.
Stock Options.
     7.1 Options may be granted, from time to time, to such Employees and Non-Employee Directors as may be selected by the Board Committee. The Option Price shall be determined by the Board Committee effective on the Grant Date; , that except in the case of Substitute Awards, such price shall not be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date. The number of Shares subject to each Option granted to each Participant, the term of each Option, and any other terms and conditions of an Option granted hereunder shall be determined by the Board Committee, in its sole discretion, effective on the Grant Date; , that no Option shall be exercisable any later than ten (10) years from the Grant Date. Each Option shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement ), which shall specify the type of Option granted, the Option Price, the term of the Option, the number of Shares subject to the Option, the conditions upon which the Option becomes exercisable and such other terms and conditions as the Board Committee shall determine.
Option Grants.
provided, however
provided, however
("Option Agreement"
     7.2 No Shares shall be issued upon exercise of an Option until full payment of the aggregate Option Price by the Participant. Upon exercise, the Option Price may be paid by: (i) delivery of cash and/or Shares (whether actually delivered or through attestation) having a Fair Market Value equal to the aggregate Option Price; or (ii) if permitted by the Board Committee, by directing the Company to retain all or a portion of the Shares otherwise issuable to the Participant under the Plan pursuant to such exercise having a Fair Market Value equal to the aggregate Option Price. To the extent permitted by applicable law, if permitted by the Board Committee, a grant may provide for the deferred payment of the Option Price from the proceeds of sale through a broker on the date of exercise of some or all of the Shares to which the exercise relates. In such case, the Company shall have received a properly executed exercise notice, together with a copy of irrevocable instructions to a broker to deliver promptly to the Company the amount of
Payment of Option Price; Cashless Exercise.
 
sale proceeds to pay the aggregate Option Price, and, if requested, the amount of any Federal, state, local or foreign withholding taxes. To facilitate the foregoing, the Company may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, enter into agreements or coordinated procedures with one or more brokerage firms.
     7.3 Participants shall not have any rights as a shareholder with respect to any Shares subject to an Option, unless and until such Shares have been issued upon the proper exercise of such Option, which issuance may, at the option of the Company, be either: (i) evidenced by delivery of a certificate registered in the name of the Participant or his or her designee; or (ii) credited to a book-entry account for the benefit of the Participant maintained by the Company's stock transfer agent or its designee.
Rights as Shareholders.
     7.4 If a Participant ceases to be an Employee or a Non-Employee Director, whether the Options granted hereunder shall be exercisable or not and the other applicable terms and conditions shall be determined in accordance with the applicable Option Agreement.
Termination of Employment or Service.
     7.5 Notwithstanding the designation of an Option as an Incentive Stock Option, to the extent the aggregate Option Price of the Shares with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by a Participant during any calendar year exceeds $100,000 (or such other amount as determined under the Code), such Options shall be treated as Non-Qualified Stock Options. Incentive Stock Options may only be granted to Participants who meet the definition of "employees" under Section 3401(c) of the Code.
Limits on Incentive Stock Options.
     7.6 Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, the repricing of an Option is prohibited without the prior approval of the Company's shareholders. For this purpose, a "repricing" means any of the following (or any other action that has the same effect as any of the following): (i) changing the terms of an Option to lower its Option Price other than in connection with a Share Change or a change in the Company's capitalization (as set forth in ); (ii) repurchasing an Option for cash or cancelling an Option in exchange for another Award, in either case, at a time when its Option Price is greater than the Fair Market Value of the underlying Shares, unless the repurchase or cancellation and exchange occurs in connection with a Share Change or a change in the Company's capitalization (as set forth in ); and (iii) any other action treated as a repricing under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
Limits on Option Repricing.
Section 3.2
Section 3.2
8.
Stock Appreciation Rights.
     8.1 Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted, from time to time, to such Employees and Non-Employee Directors as may be selected by the Board Committee. SARs may be granted at the discretion of the Board Committee either: (i) in tandem with an Option; or (ii) independent of an Option. The price from which appreciation shall be computed shall be established by the Board Committee at the Grant Date; , that except in the case of Substitute Awards, such price shall not be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of the number of Shares subject to the SAR on the Grant Date. In the event the SAR is granted in tandem with an Option, the price from which appreciation shall be computed shall be the Option Price. Each grant of a SAR shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement ), which shall specify whether the SAR is granted in tandem with an Option, the price from which appreciation shall be computed for the SAR, the term of the SAR, the number of Shares subject to the SAR, the conditions upon which the SAR vests and such other terms and conditions as the Board Committee shall determine. In no event shall a SAR be exercisable any later than ten (10) years from the Grant Date.
SAR Grants.
provided, however
("Stock Appreciation Right Agreement"
     8.2 SARs may be exercised upon such terms and conditions as the Board Committee shall determine; , that SARs granted in tandem with Options may be exercised
Exercise of SARs.
provided, however
 
only to the extent the related Options are then exercisable. Upon exercise of a SAR granted in tandem with an Option as to all or some of the Shares subject to such SAR, the related Option shall be automatically canceled to the extent of the number of Shares subject of the exercise of the SAR, and such Shares shall no longer be available for grant hereunder. If the related Option is exercised as to some or all of the Shares underlying such Option, the related SAR shall automatically be canceled to the extent of the number of Shares subject to the exercise of the Option, and such Shares shall no longer be available for grant hereunder.
     8.3 Upon exercise of a SAR, the holder shall be paid, in cash and/or Shares as set forth in the Stock Appreciation Right Agreement, the excess of the Fair Market Value of the number of Shares subject to the exercise over the price for such number of Shares, which in the case of a SAR granted in tandem with an Option shall be the Option Price for such Shares.
Payment upon Exercise.
     8.4 Participants shall not have any rights as a shareholder with respect to any Shares subject to a SAR nor with respect to any Shares subject to an Option granted in tandem with a SAR unless and until such Shares have been issued upon the proper exercise of the SAR or the related Option, which issuance may at the option of the Company be either: (i) evidenced by delivery of a certificate registered in the name of the Participant or his or her designee; or (ii) credited to a book-entry account for the benefit of the Participant maintained by the Company's stock transfer agent or its designee.
Rights as Shareholders.
     8.5 If a Participant ceases to be an Employee or a Non-Employee Director, whether SARs granted hereunder shall be exercisable or not and the other terms and conditions shall be determined in accordance with the applicable Stock Appreciation Right Agreement.
Termination of Employment or Service.
     8.6 Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, the repricing of a SAR is prohibited without the prior approval of the Company's shareholders. For this purpose, a "repricing" means any of the following (or any other action that has the same effect as any of the following): (i) changing the terms of a SAR to lower the price from which appreciation shall be computed other than in connection with a Share Change or a change in the Company's capitalization (as set forth in ); (ii) repurchasing a SAR for cash or cancelling a SAR in exchange for another Award, in either case, at a time when the price from which appreciation shall be computed is greater than the Fair Market Value of the underlying Shares, unless the repurchase or cancellation and exchange occurs in connection with a Share Change or a change in the Company's capitalization (as set forth in ); and (iii) any other action treated as a repricing under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
Limits on SAR Repricing.
Section 3.2
Section 3.2
9. Subject to the limits set forth in , but notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan, awards of Shares and other awards that are valued in whole or in part by reference to, or are otherwise based on, Shares (including, but not limited to, bonus stock, Shares which are subject to restrictions on transferability, or similar securities or rights) ), may be made, from time to time, to such Employees and Non-Employee Directors as may be selected by the Board Committee. Such Share-Based Awards may be made alone or in addition to or in connection with any other Award hereunder. The Board Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine the terms and conditions of any such Share-Based Award. Each such Share-Based Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement which shall specify the number of Shares subject to the Share-Based Award, any consideration therefor, any vesting or performance requirements and such other terms and conditions as the Board Committee shall determine. Share-Based Awards in the form of restricted shares or units are not required to be subject to any minimum vesting period.
Other Share-Based Awards.
Section 3.1
("Share-Based Awards"
10.
Non-Employee Director Deferred Units.
     10.1 This shall not be effective unless and until the Board Committee determines
Awards.
Section 10
 
to establish a program pursuant to this section. The Board Committee, in its discretion and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, subject to the provisions of with respect to Section 409A of the Code, may establish one or more programs pursuant to this The Board Committee may, after the effectiveness of this section, from time to time and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, authorize the granting of Deferred Units to Non-Employee Directors. The Deferred Units will constitute an agreement by the Company to deliver Shares to the Non-Employee Director in the future in consideration of the performance of services, but subject to the fulfillment of such conditions as the Board Committee may specify. The Deferred Units shall be credited to a Deferred Units Account when granted. Except as may be provided in a Deferred Unit Award Agreement (to the extent permitted by applicable law), the Non-Employee Director granted Deferred Units shall have no right to transfer any rights under the award of Deferred Units. The Non-Employee Director granted Deferred Units shall have no rights of ownership in the Deferred Units and shall have no right to vote them, but the Board Committee may, at or after the Grant Date, authorize the payment of Dividend Equivalents on the Shares underlying the Deferred Units on either a current or deferred or contingent basis, either in cash or additional Shares. Each Award under this of Deferred Units shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement ), which shall specify the available forms of payment, the timing of any elections with respect to payment, the ability to reallocate the Deferred Units to subaccounts that are invested in investment funds other than a Harris stock fund, and such other terms and conditions as the Board Committee shall determine.
Section 13.8(b)
Section 10.
Section 10.1
("Deferred Unit Award Agreement"
     10.2 . Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan to the contrary, within 90 days following a Change in Control that qualifies as a "change in control event" within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5), the Company shall pay to each Director (or former Director), in a lump sum, the Deferred Units in such Director's Deferred Units Account. This Paragraph may not be amended, altered or modified following such a Change in Control.
Payments in Connection with Change in Control
     10.3 If a Non-Employee Director ceases to be a Director for any reason, the Director's Deferred Units Account shall be paid to the Director in accordance with the Deferred Unit Award Agreement.
Termination of Service.
11.
Change in Control.
     11.1 For purposes of the Plan, a shall be deemed to have occurred if:
Definition of Change in Control.
"Change in Control"
          (i) any "person" (as such term is defined in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act and as used in Sections 13(d)(3) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) is or becomes a "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (the ); , that the event described in this paragraph (i) shall not be deemed to be a Change in Control by virtue of any of the following acquisitions: (a) by the Company or any Subsidiary, (b) by any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary, (c) by any underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (d) pursuant to a Non-Control Transaction (as defined in paragraph (iii));
"Company Voting Securities"
provided, however
          (ii) individuals who, on July 3, 2010, constitute the Board (the ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, that any person becoming a director subsequent to July 3, 2010, whose appointment, election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Directors who remain on the Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without objection
"Incumbent Directors"
provided
 
to such nomination) shall also be deemed to be an Incumbent Director; , that no individual initially elected or nominated as a director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to directors or any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person other than the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director;
provided, however
          (iii) there is consummated a merger, consolidation, share exchange or similar form of corporate reorganization of the Company or any such type of transaction involving the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that requires the approval of the Company's shareholders (whether for such transaction or the issuance of securities in the transaction or otherwise) (a ), unless immediately following such Business Combination: (a) more than 60% of the total voting power of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, any company which directly or indirectly has beneficial ownership of 100% of the Company Voting Securities) eligible to elect directors of such corporation is represented by shares that were Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination (either by remaining outstanding or being converted), and such voting power is in substantially the same proportion as the voting power of such Company Voting Securities immediately prior to the Business Combination, (b) no person (other than any publicly traded holding company resulting from such Business Combination, or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company (or the corporation resulting from such Business Combination)) becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities eligible to elect directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination, and (c) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were Incumbent Directors at the time of the Board's approval of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such Business Combination (any Business Combination which satisfies the conditions specified in (a), (b) and (c) shall be deemed to be a ); or
"Business Combination"
"Non-Control Transaction"
          (iv) the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or
          (v) the Company consummates a direct or indirect sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control of the Company shall not be deemed to occur solely because any person acquires beneficial ownership of more than 20% of the Company Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding; , that if after such acquisition by the Company such person becomes the beneficial owner of additional Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities beneficially owned by such person, a Change in Control of the Company shall then occur.
provided
     11.2 . Except and unless the Board Committee determines otherwise at the time of grant of a particular Award or Awards, and as set forth in the applicable Award Agreement, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control: (i) any Awards outstanding as of the date of such Change in Control that are subject to vesting requirements and that are not then vested, shall become fully vested; (ii) all then-outstanding Options and SARs shall be fully vested and immediately exercisable, provided that in no event shall any Option or SAR be exercisable beyond its original expiration date; and (iii) all restrictions regarding the Restriction Period and all other conditions prescribed by the Board Committee, if any, with respect to grants of Cash-Based Unit Awards, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Restricted Stock, Restricted Units, or Share-Based Awards, shall automatically lapse, expire and terminate and all such awards shall be deemed to be fully earned. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an Award is "deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then
Acceleration of Benefits
 
notwithstanding that the Award shall be deemed to be fully vested and earned pursuant to this Section 11.2 upon a Change in Control, unless the Change in Control qualifies as a "change in control event" within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5), in no event shall payment with respect to the Award be made at a time other than the time payment would be made in the absence of the Change in Control.
12.
Amendment or Termination of Plan.
     (a) Until such time as a Change in Control shall have occurred, the Board may, to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or any part thereof from time to time, provided that no change may be made which would adversely impair the rights of a Participant who has received an Award without the consent of said Participant; and, , further, that if an amendment to the Plan (i) would materially increase the benefits accruing to Participants under the Plan, (ii) would increase the number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan, (iii) would materially modify the requirements for participation in the Plan or (iv) must otherwise be approved by the shareholders of the Company in order to comply with applicable law or the rules of the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the principal national securities exchange upon which the Common Stock is traded or quoted, then, such amendment will be subject to shareholder approval and will not be effective unless and until such approval has been obtained. After a Change in Control, the Board shall no longer have the power to amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or any part thereof.
Amendment or Termination of Plan.
provided
     (b) In order to facilitate the making of any grant or combination of grants under the Plan, the Board Committee may provide for such special terms for Awards to Participants who are foreign nationals, or who are employed by or perform services for the Company, any Subsidiary or any Affiliate outside of the United States of America, as the Board Committee may consider necessary or appropriate to accommodate differences in local law, tax policy or custom. Moreover, the Board Committee may approve such supplements to, or amendments, restatements or alternative versions of, the Plan or any Award Agreement as it may consider necessary or appropriate for such purposes without thereby affecting the terms of the Plan as in effect for any other purpose, provided that no such supplements, amendments, restatements or alternative versions shall include any provisions that are inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, as then in effect, unless the Plan could have been amended to eliminate such inconsistency without further approval by the shareholders of the Company.
Foreign Jurisdictions.
13.
Miscellaneous.
     13.1 Nothing in the Plan or in the grant of any Award or in any Award Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates to terminate any Participant's employment or service with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continued employment or service with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates. Neither the adoption of the Plan nor any action by the Company, the Board, Board Committee or any director or officer of the Company shall be deemed to give any Employee or Non-Employee Director any right to be designated as a Participant under the Plan.
No Right to Continued Employment or Service or to Participate.
     13.2 The Company shall have the authority to withhold, or to require a Participant to remit to the Company, prior to issuance or delivery of any Shares or cash hereunder, an amount sufficient to satisfy Federal, state, local or foreign tax or withholding requirements associated with any Award. In addition, the Company may, in its sole discretion, permit or require a Participant to satisfy any tax withholding requirements, in whole or in part, by (i) delivering to the Company (whether by actual delivery or through attestation), Shares held by such Participant having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of the tax
Withholding for Taxes; Offset.
 
or (ii) directing the Company to retain Shares otherwise issuable or cash otherwise to be delivered to the Participant under the Plan. The Company may, to the extent permitted by applicable laws (including Code Section 409A), offset against any payments to be made to a Participant under the Plan any amounts owing to the Company, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates from the Participant for any reason.
     13.3 Awards hereunder shall not be deemed compensation for purposes of computing benefits under any retirement or compensation plan of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates and shall not affect any benefits under any other benefit plan now or hereafter in effect under which the availability or amount of benefits is related to the level of compensation, including, without limitation, under any pension, retirement or severance benefits plan, except to the extent specifically provided by the terms of any such plan. The adoption of the Plan shall not affect any other share incentive or other compensation plans in effect for the Company or any Affiliate or Subsidiary, nor shall the Plan preclude the Company from establishing any other forms of share incentive or other compensation or benefit program for Employees or Non-Employee Directors.
Other Compensation and Benefit Plans.
     13.4 To the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code, the Board Committee may, in its sole discretion, based on such factors as the Board Committee may deem appropriate, waive in whole or in part, any remaining restrictions or vesting requirements in connection with any Award hereunder.
Waiver of Restrictions.
     13.5 Except as permitted by this , no Award granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, encumbered, or otherwise disposed of or transferred by a Participant except by will or the laws of descent and distribution in the event of the Participant's death (to the extent such Award by its terms, survives the Participant's death). Awards granted under the Plan shall not be subject to execution, attachment, change, alienation or similar process. The Board Committee may, in its discretion, expressly authorize in an Option Agreement or Stock Appreciation Right Agreement that all or a portion of the Options or SARs granted to a Participant (other than Incentive Stock Options) be on terms which permit transfer by such Participant (i) to immediate family members of the Participant or to a trust, partnership or limited liability company for the benefit of such immediate family members, (ii) pursuant to domestic relations orders referred to in Rule 16a-12 under the Exchange Act, and (iii) to other transferees permitted by the Board Committee in its discretion (such transferees of a Participant are referred to as ) provided that (A) there may be no payment of consideration (other than release of marital rights) for any such transfer, (B) the applicable Award Agreement shall specifically provide for transferability in a manner consistent with this Section, and (C) subsequent transfers of transferred Options and SARs shall be prohibited except, without consideration for such transfer, to the Participant or a Permitted Transferee of the Participant. The Board Committee may, in its discretion, create further conditions and requirements for the transfer of Options and SARs. Following transfer, Options and SARs shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer; the Participant shall remain subject to applicable tax withholding; the events of termination of employment or service of a Participant shall continue to be applied with respect to the Permitted Transferee; and all other terms of the Options and SARs shall remain unchanged. All Options and SARs granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable during the lifetime of such Participant only by such Participant, his agent, guardian or attorney-in-fact or by a Permitted Transferee.
Limits on Transferability of Awards, Etc.
Section 13.5
"Permitted Transferees"
     13.6 Subject to and , the Board Committee shall be authorized to make adjustments in the method of calculating attainment of Performance Objectives or in the terms and conditions of Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements or changes in applicable laws, regulations or accounting principles; , that no such adjustment shall adversely impair the rights of any Participant without his or her consent and that any
Adjustment of Awards.
Sections 7.6, 8.6
12
provided, however
 
such adjustment shall be made in a manner consistent with Section 409A of the Code (to the extent applicable thereto) and in the case of a Qualified Performance-Based Award, Section 162(m) of the Code. The Board Committee may not make any such adjustment with respect to any Qualified Performance-Based Award if such adjustment would cause compensation pursuant to such award to cease to be performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code. In the event the Company shall assume outstanding employee benefit awards or the right or obligation to make future such awards in connection with the acquisition of another company or business entity, the Board Committee may, in its discretion but subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, make such adjustments in the terms of Awards under the Plan as it shall deem appropriate.
     13.7 Except as otherwise required in any applicable Award Agreement or by the terms of the Plan, Participants under the Plan shall not be required to make any payment or provide consideration for an Award other than the rendering of services to the Company, any Subsidiary or any Affiliate.
Consideration for Awards.
     13.8
Deferral.
          (a) . Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, if permitted under Section 409A of the Code, in the event that any Award shall be ineligible for treatment as "other performance based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Board Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the right with respect to any Executive Officer who is, in the year any Award hereunder otherwise would become deductible by the Company, a "covered employee" under Section 162(m) of the Code, to defer such Executive Officer's receipt of such Award until the Executive Officer is no longer a "covered employee" or until such time as shall be determined by the Board Committee, provided that the Board Committee may effect such a deferral only in a situation where the Board Committee reasonably anticipates that the Company would be prohibited a deduction under Section 162(m) of the Code and such deferral shall be limited to the portion of the Award that reasonably is anticipated not to be deductible. In no event shall the provisions of this apply to Options or SARs.
Section 162(m) Related Deferral
Section 13.8(a)
          (b) Except with respect to Options and SARs, the Board Committee may in its discretion permit a Participant to defer the receipt of payment of cash or delivery of Shares that would otherwise be due to the Participant by virtue of the exercise of a right or the satisfaction of vesting or other conditions with respect to an Award. If any such deferral is to be permitted by the Board Committee, the Board Committee shall establish written rules and procedures relating to such deferral in a manner intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, including, without limitation, the time when an election to defer may be made, the time period of the deferral and the events that would result in payment of the deferred amount, the interest or other earnings attributable to the deferral and the method of funding, if any, attributable to the deferred amount.
Other Deferral.
     13.9 No Shares will be issued or transferred pursuant to an Award unless and until all then applicable requirements imposed by Federal and state securities and other laws, rules and regulations and by any regulatory agencies having jurisdiction, and by any exchanges upon which the Shares may be listed, have been fully met. As a condition precedent to the issuance of Shares pursuant to the grant or exercise of an Award, the Company may require the Participant to take any reasonable action to meet such requirements. The Board Committee may impose such conditions on any Shares issuable under the Plan as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, restrictions under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, under the requirements of any exchange upon which such Shares of the same class are then listed, and under any blue sky or other securities laws applicable to such Shares. The Board Committee may also require the Participant to represent and warrant at the time of issuance or transfer that the Shares are being acquired only for investment purposes and without any current intention to sell or distribute such Shares.
Securities Laws.
 
     13.10 If any of the Company's financial statements are restated as a result of errors, omissions, or fraud, the Board Committee may (in its sole discretion, but acting in good faith) direct that the Company recover all or a portion of any such Award or payment made to any, all or any class of Participants with respect to any fiscal year of the Company the financial results of which are negatively affected by such restatement. The amount to be recovered from any Participant shall be the amount by which the affected Award or payment exceeded the amount that would have been payable to such Participant had the financial statements been initially filed as restated, or any greater or lesser amount (including, but not limited to, the entire Award) that the Board Committee shall determine. The Board Committee may determine to recover different amounts from different Participants or different classes of Participants on such basis as it shall deem appropriate. In no event shall the amount to be recovered by the Company from a Participant be less than the amount required to be repaid or recovered as a matter of law. The Board Committee shall determine whether the Company shall effect any such recovery (i) by seeking repayment from the Participant, (ii) by reducing the amount that would otherwise be payable to the Participant under any compensatory plan, program or arrangement maintained by the Company, a Subsidiary or any of its Affiliates, (iii) by withholding payment of future increases in compensation (including the payment of any discretionary bonus amount) or grants of compensatory awards that would otherwise have been made in accordance with the Company's otherwise applicable compensation practices, or (iv) by any combination of the foregoing or otherwise (subject, in each of subclause (ii), (iii) and (iv), to applicable law, including without limitation Section 409A of the Code, and the terms and conditions of the applicable plan, program or arrangement). This shall be a non-exclusive remedy and nothing contained in this shall preclude the Company from pursuing any other applicable remedies available to it, whether in addition to, or in lieu of, application of this .
Impact of Restatement of Financial Statements upon Previous Awards.
Section 13.10
Section 13.10
Section 13.10
     13.11 All Awards under the Plan are intended to be exempt from (or comply with) the requirements of Section 409A of the Code to the maximum extent permitted. To the extent applicable, the Plan is intended to be administered and interpreted in a manner that is consistent with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no particular tax result for a Participant with respect to any income recognized by the Participant in connection with the Plan is guaranteed under the Plan, and the Participant shall be responsible for any taxes imposed on the Participant in connection with the Plan.
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code.
     13.12 The provisions of the Plan are not intended, and should not be construed, to be legal, business or tax advice. The Company, Participants and any other party having any interest herein are hereby informed that the U.S. Federal tax advice contained in this document (if any) is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of (a) avoiding penalties under the Code or (b) promoting, marketing or recommending to any party any transaction or matter addressed herein.
Tax Penalty Avoidance.
     13.13 The validity, construction, and effect of the Plan and any rules and regulations relating to the Plan and any agreement governing an Award shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the conflict of law principles thereof. Unless otherwise indicated, all "Section" references are to sections of the Plan. References to any law, rule or regulation shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing, supplementing, or interpreting such law, rule or regulation.
Governing Law and Interpretation.
     13.14 Notwithstanding any other provision or Section of the Plan, if any provision of the Plan or any Award Agreement is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction or as to any person or Award, or would disqualify the Plan or any Award Agreement under any law deemed applicable by the Board or the Board Committee, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended
Severability.
 
to conform to the applicable laws (but only to such extent necessary to comply with such laws), or if it cannot be construed or deemed amended without, in the determination of the Board or the Board Committee, materially altering the intent of the Plan or Award Agreement, such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction, person or Award and the remainder of the Plan and any such Award Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
     13.15 Neither the Plan nor any Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate and a Participant or any other person. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate.
No Trust or Fund Created.
     13.16 Each Participant recognizes and agrees that prior to being selected by the Board Committee to receive an Award he or she has no right to any benefits hereunder. Accordingly, in consideration of the Participant's receipt of any Award hereunder, he or she expressly waives any right to contest the amount of any Award, the terms of any Award Agreement, any determination, action or omission hereunder or under any Award Agreement by the Board Committee, the Company or the Board, or any amendment to the Plan or any Award Agreement (other than an amendment to the Plan or an Award Agreement to which his or her consent is expressly required by the express terms of the Plan or an Award Agreement).
Waiver of Claims.
     13.17
Effective Date and Term.
          (a) The Plan initially became effective upon approval by the shareholders of the Company at the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "") and, the Plan as amended and restated hereby is effective on August 27, 2010. The terms of the Plan as hereby amended and restated shall govern Awards granted on or after August 27, 2010. Awards granted prior to August 27, 2010 shall continue to be governed by the terms of the 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, prior to amendment and restatement. All Awards granted under the Plan must be granted within ten (10) years from the Plan Effective Date. Any Awards outstanding ten (10) years after the Plan Effective Date may be exercised within the periods prescribed under or pursuant to the Plan.
Effective Date and Term of Plan.
Plan Effective Date
          (b) Upon the Plan Effective Date, no further grants or awards were permitted under the 2000 Stock Incentive Plan. All grants and awards under the Predecessor Plans that remain outstanding shall be administered and paid in accordance with the provisions of the Predecessor Plans and the applicable award agreement.
Predecessor Plans.
     Approved and adopted by the Board of Directors the 27th day of August 2005 and amended and restated the 28 day of August 2010.
th


