FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20110831165712.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On August 26, 2011, the independent members of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Harris Corporation (the "Company" or "Harris") approved certain compensation actions with respect to Howard L. Lance, the Company's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and the Management Development and Compensation Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board approved certain compensation actions with respect to the Company's other "named executive officers" (pursuant to Instruction 4 to Item 5.02 of Form 8-K, those executive officers previously included in the Summary Compensation Table in the Proxy Statement for the Company's 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders) who are currently employed with the Company (together, the "named executive officers"). The approved compensation actions for the named executive officers were in respect of both fiscal 2011 (which ended July 1, 2011) and fiscal 2012 (which began July 2, 2011), as described below.
:
(i) Fiscal 2011 Cash Payouts Under the Annual Incentive Plan
Cash payouts under the Harris Corporation Annual Incentive Plan (the "Annual Incentive Plan") in respect of fiscal 2011 were approved based on performance measures and other individual performance objectives established early in fiscal 2011. The pre-established performance measures included the Company's revenue and operating income, weighted equally, or in the case of Mr. Mehnert, segment revenue and operating income, weighted equally. Approved payouts to the named executive officers were as follows: Howard L. Lance  $1,264,000; Gary L. McArthur  $396,185; Dana A. Mehnert  $330,000; and Daniel R. Pearson  $328,733.
:
(ii) Fiscal 2011 Performance Share Award Payouts Under the 2005 Equity Incentive Plan
Performance share award payouts under the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, as previously amended (as in effect prior to the Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (defined below)), in respect of the fiscal 2009-2011 three-year performance period were approved based on performance measures established early in fiscal 2009. The pre-established performance measures consisted of the Company's cumulative operating income and average annual return on invested capital ("ROIC"), weighted equally, over the fiscal 2009-2011 performance period and the Company's average operating income growth and average annual ROIC over the fiscal 2009-2011 performance period compared with the Standard and Poor's 500 and Midcap 400 indices. Approved payouts to the named executive officers were as follows: Howard L. Lance  56,680 shares; Gary L. McArthur  12,610 shares; Dana A. Mehnert  6,760 shares; and Daniel R. Pearson  10,400 shares.
:
(iii) Base Salaries
The following annual base salaries were approved for the named executive officers, effective August 27, 2011: Howard L. Lance  $1,050,000; Gary L. McArthur  $565,000; Dana A. Mehnert  $470,000; and Daniel R. Pearson  $525,000.
:
(iv) Fiscal 2012 Minimum, Target and Maximum Cash Award Levels under the Annual Incentive Plan
Minimum, target and maximum cash award levels for potential payouts under the Annual Incentive Plan in respect of fiscal 2012 were approved for the named executive officers. In addition, the performance measures that will be applied for purposes of determining such potential payouts were also
approved. These performance measures include: (a) the Company's revenue and operating income, weighted equally, or in the case of Mr. Mehnert, segment revenue and operating income, weighted equally, and (b) individual performance objectives. The Compensation Committee may adjust the financial payout calculations for Messrs. McArthur, Mehnert and Pearson upward or downward by up to twenty percent based upon their individual performance objectives. The approved minimum, target and maximum cash award levels for the named executive officers in respect of fiscal 2012 were as follows: Howard L. Lance: $0  $1,260,000  $2,520,000; Gary L. McArthur: $0  $405,000  $810,000; Dana A. Mehnert: $0  $320,000  $640,000; and Daniel R. Pearson: $0  $375,000  $750,000.
:
(v) Fiscal 2012 Grants of Stock Options, Performance Share Unit Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards Under the Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan
: Grants of options to purchase shares of the Company's common stock under the 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010) (the "Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan") were approved for certain named executive officers as follows: Gary L. McArthur  59,800 shares; Dana A. Mehnert  45,800 shares; and Daniel R. Pearson  55,600 shares. The options granted have a ten-year term and vest in equal increments over a period of three years as follows: one-third vest on the first anniversary of the grant date; an additional one-third vest on the second anniversary of the grant date; and the final one-third vest on the third anniversary of the grant date. The options granted have an exercise price per share equal to $37.69, which was the closing price per share of the Company's common stock on August 26, 2011. The exercise price may be paid in cash and/or shares of the Company's common stock, or by "cashless exercise" procedures. The form of Stock Option Award Agreement Terms and Conditions (as of August 26, 2011) for the stock option grants made to the named executive officers is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Stock Options
: Grants of performance share unit awards under the Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan were approved for certain named executive officers for the fiscal 2012-2014 three-year performance period, including minimum, target and maximum award levels, as follows: Gary L. McArthur: 0  16,200  32,400 performance share units; Dana A. Mehnert: 0  12,400  24,800 performance share units; and Daniel R. Pearson: 0  15,100  30,200 performance share units. The actual payouts of performance share unit awards will be in shares of the Company's common stock and will vary from 0% to 200% of the target level of performance share units indicated above, based on the extent of achievement over the fiscal 2012-2014 performance period of targets relating to the Company's cumulative operating income and average annual ROIC, weighted equally, and taking into account the Company's total shareholder return relative to a peer group consisting of the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 Industrials Sector and Information Technology Sector (excluding semiconductor and semiconductor equipment companies). The performance share unit awards provide that each performance share unit earned and paid out will receive accrued dividend equivalents in an amount equal to the per share cash dividends or other distributions, if any, which are paid with respect to issued and outstanding shares of the Company's common stock during the performance period, and that payment of such dividend equivalents will be made at the time of the actual payout of shares of common stock in respect of such performance share unit awards. The form of Performance Share Unit Award Agreement Terms and Conditions (as of August 26, 2011) for the grants of performance share unit awards made to the named executive officers is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Performance Share Unit Awards
Grants of restricted stock unit awards under the Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan were approved for certain named executive officers as follows: Gary L. McArthur  1,800 restricted stock units; and Daniel R. Pearson  1,200 restricted stock units. These restricted stock units will vest and the restrictions will terminate on August 26, 2013 in the case of Mr. McArthur, and on August 26, 2012 in the case of Mr. Pearson, provided in each case that such named executive officer is still employed by the Company at that time. The actual payouts of restricted stock unit awards will be in an equivalent number of shares of the Company's common stock. The restricted stock unit awards provide for the payment of dividend equivalents on each restricted stock unit in an amount equal to the per share cash dividends or other distributions, if any, which are paid with respect to issued and outstanding shares of the Company's common stock, at the time of payment of such cash dividends or other distributions. The form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement Terms and Conditions (as of August 26, 2011) for such grants of restricted stock unit awards is filed as Exhibit 10.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Restricted Stock Unit Awards:
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
10.1 * Form of Stock Option Award Agreement Terms and Conditions (as of August 26, 2011).
10.2 * Form of Performance Share Unit Award Agreement Terms and Conditions (as of August 26, 2011).
10.3 * Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement Terms and Conditions (as of August 26, 2011).
*Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EXHIBIT 10.1
1. . Under and subject to the provisions of the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010, and as may be further amended from time to time, the "") and upon the terms and conditions set forth herein (these ""), Harris Corporation (the "") has granted to the employee receiving these Terms and Conditions (the "") a Non-Qualified Stock Option (the "") to purchase such number of shares of common stock, $1.00 par value per share (the ""), of the Corporation at such designated exercise price per share as set forth in the Award Letter (as defined below) from the Corporation to the Employee. Such grant is subject to the following Terms and Conditions (these Terms and Conditions, together with the Corporation's letter to the Employee specifying the grant date, the number of shares issuable upon exercise of the Option, the exercise price and certain other terms (the ""), are referred to as the "").
Stock Option  Terms and Conditions
Plan
Terms and Conditions
Corporation
Employee
Option
Common Stock
Award Letter
Agreement
(a) Except as set forth in Sections 1(e), 2(b), 2(c) and 2(d), the Option shall not be exercisable to any extent until and unless the Employee shall have remained continuously in the employ of the Corporation until the Option shall become exercisable. The grant of the Option shall not limit or restrict the Corporation's rights to terminate the Employee's employment.
(b) During the lifetime of the Employee, the Option shall be exercisable only by the Employee, and, except as otherwise set forth in Section 2, only while the Employee continues as an Employee of the Corporation.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement, the Option shall expire no later than ten years from the grant date (the ""), and shall not be exercisable thereafter.
Expiration Date
(d) Except as otherwise provided in the Award Letter, the Option shall vest and become exercisable as to the following shares issuable upon exercise of the Option:
(i) After the end of one year from the grant date and prior to the end of two years from the grant date, not more than one-third of the aggregate shares issuable upon exercise of the Option;
(ii) After the end of two years from the grant date and prior to the end of three years from the grant date, not more than two-thirds of the aggregate shares issuable upon exercise of the Option; and
(iii) After the end of three years from the grant date, all shares issuable upon exercise of the Option.
(e) Upon a Change in Control of the Corporation as defined in Section 11.1 of the Plan, any outstanding Option shall immediately become fully vested and exercisable.
2. .
Termination of Employment
(a) . In the event of termination of employment with the Corporation other than as a result of circumstances described in Sections 2(b), 2(c), 2(d), and 2(e) below, the Option, whether exercisable or not, shall terminate immediately upon termination of employment.
Termination of Employment
(b) . Notwithstanding Section 1(d), in the event of the death of the Employee (x) while employed by the Corporation, (y) following the Employee's cessation of employment with the Corporation due to permanent disability of the Employee (as determined by the Corporation) while employed by the Corporation, or (z) following the retirement of the Employee if the retirement occurred after the Employee reached age 62 and had ten or more years of full-time service with the Corporation, the Option shall immediately become fully vested and exercisable, and may be exercised by the Employee's Beneficiary (as defined in Section 4) but only until the earlier of (i) the date that is twelve (12) months following the date of death of the Employee or (ii) the Expiration Date. In the event of the death of the Employee following termination of or cessation of employment with the Corporation, unless the first sentence of this Section 2(b) is applicable, the Option may be exercised by the Employee's Beneficiary but only until the earlier of (i) the date that is twelve (12) months following the date of death of the Employee or (ii) the Expiration Date, and only to the extent that the Option was exercisable on the day immediately prior to the date of the Employee's death.
Death
(c) . In the event of cessation of employment with the Corporation due to permanent disability of the Employee (as determined by the Corporation) while employed by the Corporation, notwithstanding Section 1(d), the Option shall immediately become fully vested and exercisable and unless the first sentence of Section 2(b) becomes applicable, may be exercised by the Employee until the Expiration Date.
Disability
(d) . In the event of retirement of the Employee, the Option may, if the retirement occurs after the Employee has reached age 55 and has ten or more years of full-time service with the Corporation, be exercised by the Employee until the Expiration Date, but only to the extent that the Option was vested and exercisable at the date of such retirement. In the event of retirement of the Employee, the Option may, if the retirement occurs after the Employee has reached age 62 and has ten or more years of full-time service with the Corporation, unless the first sentence of Section 2(b) becomes applicable, be exercised by the Employee until the Expiration Date and shall continue to vest and become exercisable after such retirement according to the schedule set forth in Section 1(d).
Retirement
(e) . In the event of termination of employment of the Employee by the Corporation other than for Misconduct, the Option may be exercised by the Employee but only until the earlier of (i) the date that is ninety (90) days following such termination of employment or (ii) the Expiration Date, and only to the extent that the Option was vested and exercisable at the date of such termination of employment. In the event of termination of employment of the Employee by the Corporation for Misconduct, the Option shall immediately terminate upon such termination of employment and shall not be exercisable. "" shall mean deliberate, willful or gross misconduct, as determined by the Corporation. In the event of termination of employment of the Employee by the Employee other than as a result of death, permanent disability (as determined by the Corporation) or retirement (in a circumstance in which Section 2(d) applies), the Option may be exercised by the Employee but only until the earlier of (i) the date that is thirty (30) days following such termination of employment or (ii) the Expiration Date, and only to the extent that the Option was vested and exercisable at the date of such termination of employment.
Involuntary or Voluntary Termination
Misconduct
3. . The Option may be exercised by delivering to the Corporation at the office of the Corporate Secretary (i) a written notice, signed by the person entitled to exercise the Option, stating the designated number of shares such person then elects to purchase; provided, however, that in the discretion of the Corporation, notice sent through an approved electronic means may be substituted for a signed, written notice, (ii) payment in an amount equal to the full exercise price for the shares to be purchased, and (iii) in the event the Option is exercised by any person other than the Employee, such as the Employee's Beneficiary, evidence satisfactory to the Corporation that such person has the right to exercise the Option. Payment of the exercise price shall be made (a) in cash, (b) in previously acquired shares of Common Stock of the Corporation, or (c) in any combination of cash and such shares. Shares tendered in payment of the exercise price which have been acquired through an exercise of a stock option must have been held at least six months prior to exercise of the Option and shall be valued at the Fair Market Value. Upon the exercise of the Option, the Corporation shall cause the shares in respect of which the Option shall have been so exercised to be issued and delivered by crediting such shares to a book-entry account for the benefit of the Employee or the Employee's Beneficiary maintained by the Corporation's stock transfer agent or its designee. The Employee does not have any rights as a shareholder in respect of any shares as to which the Option shall not have been duly exercised and no rights as a shareholder shall exist prior to the proper exercise of such Option.
Exercise of Option
4. . The Option and rights granted by the Corporation under these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement are not transferable except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution in the event of the Employee's death. The Employee may designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries (the "") to exercise any rights or receive any benefits under Section 2(b) following the Employee's death. To be effective, such designation must be made in accordance with such rules and on such form as prescribed by the Corporation for such purpose, which completed form must be received by the office of the Corporate Secretary prior to the Employee's death. If the Employee fails to designate a beneficiary, or if no designated beneficiary survives the Employee's death, the Employee's estate shall be deemed the Employee's Beneficiary. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, except as aforesaid, the Option may not be sold, exchanged, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated, encumbered or otherwise disposed of, shall not be assignable by operation of law, and shall not be subject to execution, attachment, charge, alienation or similar process. Any attempt to effect any of the foregoing shall be null and void and without effect.
Prohibition Against Transfer; Designation of Beneficiary
Employee's Beneficiary
5. . For the purpose of these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement, (a) employment by the Corporation or any Subsidiary of or a successor to the Corporation shall be considered employment by the Corporation, and (b) references to "termination of employment," "cessation of employment," "ceases to be employed," "ceases to be an Employee" or similar phrases shall mean the last day actually worked (as determined by the Corporation), and shall not include any notice period, or any period of severance or separation pay or pay continuation (whether required by law or custom or otherwise provided) following the last day actually worked.
Employment by Corporation, Subsidiary or Successor; Termination or Cessation of Employment
6. . These Terms and Conditions and the other portions of the Agreement: (a) shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor to the Corporation; (b) shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware and any applicable laws of the United States; and (c) except as permitted under Sections 3.2, 12 and 13.6 of the Plan, may not be amended without the written consent of both the Corporation and the Employee. The Agreement shall not in any way interfere with or limit the right of the Corporation to terminate the Employee's employment or service with the Corporation at any time, and no contract or right of employment shall be implied by these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement of which they form a part.
Miscellaneous
7. . The Corporation shall not be required to issue shares upon exercise of the Option unless and until: (a) such shares have been duly listed upon each stock exchange on which the Corporation's Common Stock is then registered; and (b) a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to such shares is then effective.
Securities Law Requirement
8. . In consideration of the grant of the Option to the Employee under these Terms and Conditions, the Employee agrees, by the acceptance of the Option, that for a period of twelve (12) months immediately following the date of termination of employment of the Employee with the Corporation, the Employee shall not directly or indirectly recruit or solicit for hire or hire, or assist in any manner in the recruitment, solicitation for hire or hiring of any employee or officer of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries, or in any way induce any such employee or officer to terminate his or her employment with the Corporation or its Subsidiaries.
Non-Solicitation
9. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 2 above, if the Employee, whether during employment or after termination of employment of the Employee with the Corporation, engages in any conduct in breach of any written non-solicitation (whether under Section 8 above or otherwise), non-competition or non-disparagement agreement or undertaking, or any similar written agreement or undertaking for the protection of the business of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, whether now or hereafter in effect, then: (i) the Option shall immediately terminate upon the occurrence of such breach and shall not be exercisable; and (ii) to the extent provided by, and in accordance with, the terms of such written agreement or undertaking, in the event of a breach thereof, the Corporation shall have the right to reclaim and receive from the Employee all shares delivered to the Employee upon the exercise of the Option, or to the extent the Employee has transferred such shares, the Fair Market Value thereof (as of the date such shares were transferred by the Employee) in cash, and in each case upon receipt thereof, the Corporation shall return the exercise price paid by the Employee. If a Change in Control shall occur, this Section 9 shall immediately terminate and be of no further force and effect.
Effect of Breach of Restrictive Covenants
10. . The Board Committee shall have authority, subject to the express provisions of the Plan as in effect from time to time, to construe these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement and the Plan, to establish, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and to make all other determinations in the judgment of the Board Committee necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan. The Board Committee may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement in the manner and to the extent it shall deem expedient to carry the Plan into effect, and it shall be the sole and final judge of such expediency.
Board Committee Administration
11. . These Terms and Conditions and the Agreement are made pursuant to the Plan, the provisions of which are hereby incorporated by reference. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings set forth for such terms in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms of these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement and the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern.
Incorporation of Plan Provisions

EXHIBIT 10.2
1. . Under and subject to the provisions of the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010, and as may be further amended from time to time, the "") and upon the terms and conditions set forth herein (these ""), Harris Corporation (the "") has granted to the employee receiving these Terms and Conditions (the "") a Performance Share Unit Award (the "") of such number of performance share units as set forth in the Award Letter (as defined below) from the Corporation to the Employee (such units, as may be adjusted in accordance with Sections 1(c), 1(d), 1(e) and 3 of these Terms and Conditions, the ""). At all times, each Performance Unit shall be equal in value to one share of common stock, $1.00 par value per share (the ""), of the Corporation (a ""). Such Award is subject to the following Terms and Conditions (these Terms and Conditions, together with the Corporation's letter to the Employee specifying the number of Performance Units subject to the Award, the Performance Period, the form of payment of the Award and certain other terms (the "") and the Statement of Performance Goals (as defined below) related thereto, are referred to as the "").
Performance Share Unit Award  Terms and Conditions
Plan
Terms and Conditions
Corporation
Employee
Award
Performance Units
Common Stock
Share
Award Letter
Agreement
(a) . For purposes of the Agreement, the "" shall be the Performance Period set forth and designated as such in the Award Letter.
Performance Period
Performance Period
(b) . Provided the Award has not previously been forfeited, as soon as administratively practicable following the expiration of the Performance Period, but in no event later than the 15 day of the third month following the expiration of the Performance Period, (i) if the Award Letter specifies that the Performance Units are to be paid in Shares, the Corporation shall issue to the Employee in a single payment the number of Shares underlying the Performance Units to which the Employee is entitled pursuant hereto; or (ii) if the Award Letter specifies that the Performance Units are to be paid in cash, the Corporation shall pay to the Employee a single lump sum cash payment equal to the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) of the number of Shares underlying the Performance Units to which the Employee is entitled pursuant hereto. If the Award is to be paid in Shares, upon payout the Corporation shall at its option, cause such Shares as to which the Employee is entitled pursuant hereto: (i) to be released without restriction on transfer by delivery to the custody of the Employee of a stock certificate in the name of the Employee or his or her designee or (ii) to be credited without restriction on transfer to a book-entry account for the benefit of the Employee or his or her designee maintained by the Corporation's stock transfer agent or its designee.
Payout of Award
th
(c) .
Satisfaction of Performance Objectives
(i) The payout of the Award shall be contingent upon the attainment during the Performance Period of the performance objectives set forth in the Statement of Performance Goals (however designated) delivered to the Employee at the time of the Award (the ""). The payout of the Award shall be determined upon the expiration of the Performance Period in accordance with the Statement of Performance Goals. The final determination of the payout of the Award will be authorized by the Board, the Board Committee, or its designee. Performance Units will be forfeited (A) if they are not earned at the end of the Performance Period or (B) except as otherwise provided herein, if the Employee ceases to be employed by the Corporation at any time prior to the expiration of the Performance Period.
Statement of Performance Goals
(ii) If employment is commenced after the first day of the first fiscal year of the Performance Period (such commencement date is referred to as the ""), the Employee shall be eligible to receive a pro-rata portion of the Shares or cash which would be payable to the Employee under the Award at the end of the Performance Period determined in accordance with the prior provisions of this Section 1(c), and the remaining Shares or cash subject to the Award shall be automatically forfeited. Such forfeited portion shall be measured by a fraction, of which the numerator is the number of days between the first day of the first fiscal year of the Performance Period and the Start Date, and the denominator is the number of days of the Performance Period.
Start Date
(d) .
Rights During Performance Period; Dividend Equivalents
(i) During the Performance Period, the Employee shall not have any rights as a shareholder with respect to the Shares underlying the Performance Units.
(ii) If, at any time during the Performance Period, the Corporation pays a dividend or makes other distributions on the Common Stock, (A) if the Award Letter specifies that the Performance Units are to be paid in Shares, then on or about the date the Performance Units are paid in Shares and the Corporation issues to the Employee the Shares underlying the Performance Units pursuant to Section 1(b), the Corporation shall pay to the Employee the dividends or other distributions paid or payable during the Performance Period on the number of Shares underlying the Performance Units to which the Employee is entitled, or (B) if the Award Letter specifies that the Performance Units are to be paid in cash, then on or about the date the Performance Units are paid in cash to the Employee pursuant to Section 1(b), the Corporation shall pay to the Employee the dividends or other distributions paid or payable during the Performance Period on the number of Performance Units to which the Employee is entitled. No such dividends or other distributions will be paid in respect of Performance Units that are forfeited or cancelled. No interest shall be paid on any such dividends or distributions. If any such dividend or distribution is paid in securities of the Corporation (including Shares), such dividend equivalents in respect of such securities relating to the Performance Units shall be subject to the same restrictions and conditions as the Performance Units in respect of which such dividend or distribution in the form of securities was made and shall be paid to the Employee in the manner and at the time the Performance Units are paid.
(iii) If the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock is changed as a result of a stock dividend, stock split or the like, without additional consideration to the Corporation, the Performance Units subject to this Award shall be adjusted to correspond to the change in the Corporation's outstanding shares of Common Stock. If the Award Letter specifies that the Performance Units are to be paid in Shares, upon the expiration of the Performance Period and payout of the Award, the Employee may exercise voting rights and shall be entitled to receive dividends and other distributions with respect to the number of Shares to which the Employee is entitled pursuant hereto.
(e) . The number of Performance Units subject to the Award is based upon the assumption that the Employee shall continue to perform substantially the same duties throughout the Performance Period, and such number of Performance Units may be reduced or increased by the Board or the Board Committee or its designee without formal amendment of the Agreement to reflect a change in duties during the Performance Period.
Adjustment to Award
2. . Except in the event of a Change in Control covered in Section 5 herein or as otherwise provided in the Award Letter, if the Employee ceases to be an employee of the Corporation prior to the expiration of the Performance Period:
Forfeiture; Termination of Employment
(a) for any reason other than (i) death, (ii) permanent disability (as determined by the Corporation), (iii) retirement after age 55 with ten or more years of full-time service, or (iv) involuntary termination of employment of the Employee by the Corporation other than for Misconduct, all Performance Units subject to the Award shall be automatically forfeited upon such termination of employment; or
(b) due to (i) death, (ii) permanent disability (as determined by the Corporation), (iii) retirement after age 55 with ten or more years of full-time service, or (iv) involuntary termination of employment of the Employee by the Corporation other than for Misconduct, the Employee shall be eligible to receive a pro-rata portion of the payout in respect of the Performance Units which would have been made to the Employee under the Award at the end of the Performance Period under Section 1(b) determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 1(c) hereof, and the remaining payout and Performance Units subject to the Award shall be automatically forfeited. Such pro-rata portion shall be measured by a fraction, of which the numerator is the number of days of the Performance Period during which the Employee's employment continued, and the denominator is the number of days of the Performance Period. "" shall mean deliberate, willful or gross misconduct, as determined by the Corporation. The pro-rata portion of the payout in respect of the Performance Units required to be paid under this Section 2 shall be paid to the Employee in the form and at the time as specified in Section 1(b).
Misconduct
3. . If the Employee transfers employment from one business unit of the Corporation or an Affiliate to another business unit or Affiliate during a Performance Period, the Employee shall be eligible to receive the number of Performance Units determined by the Board or the Board Committee or its designee based upon such factors as the Board or the Board Committee or its designee, as the case may be, in its sole discretion may deem appropriate.
Transfer of Employment
4. . Until the expiration of the Performance Period and payout of the Award pursuant to Section 1(b), the Award, the Performance Units subject to the Award, any interest in Shares (in the case of a payout to be made in Shares as specified in the Award Letter) or cash to be paid, as applicable, related thereto, and the rights granted under these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement are not transferable except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution in the event of the Employee's death. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, except as aforesaid, until the expiration of the Performance Period and payout of the award pursuant to Section 1(b), the Award, the Performance Units and any interest in Shares (in the case of a payout to be made in Shares as specified in the Award Letter) or cash to be paid, as applicable, related thereto, may not be sold, exchanged, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated, encumbered or otherwise disposed of, shall not be assignable by operation of law, and shall not be subject to execution, attachment, charge, alienation or similar process. Any attempt to effect any of the foregoing shall be null and void and without effect.
Prohibition Against Transfer
5. . (a) Upon a Change in Control of the Corporation as defined in Section 11.1 of the Plan, the performance objectives shall be conclusively deemed to have been attained immediately upon the occurrence of such a Change in Control. The payout of the Performance Units shall be paid to the Employee at the end of the Performance Period; , , that, following such Change in Control but prior to the end of the Performance Period: (i) in the event of the Employee's death, termination due to permanent disability (as determined by the Corporation), retirement after age 55 with ten or more years of full-time service, or involuntary termination of employment of the Employee by the Corporation other than for Cause, the payout of the Performance Units shall be vested immediately and paid in Shares or in a single cash lump sum as specified in the Award Letter as soon as administratively practicable but no later than the end of the calendar year in which the vesting event occurs; (ii) in the event of the Employee's resignation or termination for Cause, the payout of the Award shall be forfeited; and (iii) in the event of a "change in the Corporation's capital structure," the payout of the Performance Units shall be vested immediately and if (A) the Award Letter specifies that the Performance Units are to be paid in Shares, at the election of the Employee, the payout of the Award shall be paid in Shares without restriction on transfer or shall be converted and paid in cash or (B) the Award Letter specifies that the Performance Units are to be paid in cash, such Performance Units shall be paid in cash. The amount of any cash payment made under this Section 5 will be an amount equal to the number of Shares underlying the Performance Units subject to the Award multiplied by the highest price per share paid in any transaction reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index: (A) during the sixty (60) day period preceding and including the date of a "change in the Corporation's capital structure;" or (B) during the sixty (60) day period preceding and including the date of the Change in Control. An Award in Shares or cash shall be paid as soon as administratively practicable following a "change in the Corporation's capital structure," but no later than the end of the calendar year in which the change in the Corporation's capital structure occurs.
Change in Control
provided
however
(b) For purposes hereof, a "" shall be deemed to have occurred if:
change in the Corporation's capital structure
(i) the Shares are no longer the only class of the Corporation's Common Stock;
(ii) the Shares cease to be, or are not readily, tradable on an established securities market (in the United States) within the meaning of Section 409 (l)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended;
(iii) the Corporation issues warrants, convertible debt, or any other security that is exercisable or convertible into Common Stock, except for rights granted under the Plan; or
(iv) the ratio of total debt to total capitalization exceeds 45 percent. Total debt is the total debt for borrowed money. Total capitalization is consolidated total assets of the Corporation less consolidated total liabilities of the Corporation.
(c) "" shall mean (i) a material breach by the Employee of the duties and responsibilities of the Employee (other than as a result of incapacity due to physical or mental illness) which is (A) demonstrably willful, continued and deliberate on the Employee's part, (B) committed in bad faith or without reasonable belief that such breach is in the best interests of the Corporation and (C) not remedied within fifteen (15) days after receipt of written notice from the Corporation which specifically identifies the manner in which such breach has occurred or (ii) the Employee's conviction of, or plea of to, a felony involving willful misconduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Corporation. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board or based upon the advice of counsel for the Corporation shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in good faith and in the best interests of the Corporation. Cause shall not exist unless and until the Corporation has delivered to the Employee a copy of a resolution duly adopted by three-quarters (3/4) of the entire Board at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose (after thirty (30) days notice to the Employee and an opportunity for the Employee, together with counsel, to be heard before the Board), finding that in the good faith opinion of the Board an event set forth in clauses (i) or (ii) has occurred and specifying the particulars thereof in detail. The Corporation must notify the Employee of any event constituting Cause within ninety (90) days following the Corporation's knowledge of its existence or such event shall not constitute Cause under these Terms and Conditions.
Cause
nolo contendere
6. . In consideration of the grant of the Award to the Employee under these Terms and Conditions, the Employee agrees, by the acceptance of the Award, that for a period of twelve (12) months immediately following the date of termination of employment of the Employee with the Corporation, the Employee shall not directly or indirectly recruit or solicit for hire or hire, or assist in any manner in the recruitment, solicitation for hire or hiring of any employee or officer of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries, or in any way induce any such employee or officer to terminate his or her employment with the Corporation or its Subsidiaries.
Non-Solicitation
7. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 2 above, if the Employee, whether during employment or after termination of employment of the Employee with the Corporation, engages in any conduct in breach of any written non-solicitation (whether under Section 6 above or otherwise), non-competition or non-disparagement agreement or undertaking, or any similar written agreement or undertaking for the protection of the business of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, whether now or hereafter in effect, then: (i) all Performance Units subject to the Award shall be automatically forfeited upon the occurrence of such breach; and (ii) to the extent provided by, and in accordance with, the terms of such written agreement or undertaking, in the event of a breach thereof, the Corporation shall have the right to reclaim and receive from the Employee all Shares and cash, as applicable, delivered to the Employee upon release or credit pursuant to Sections 1(b) and 1(d) above, or to the extent the Employee has transferred such Shares, the Fair Market Value thereof (as of the date the Shares were transferred by the Employee) in cash. If a Change in Control shall occur, this Section 7 shall immediately terminate and be of no further force and effect.
Effect of Breach of Restrictive Covenants
8. . These Terms and Conditions and the other portions of the Agreement: (a) shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor of the Corporation; (b) shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware and any applicable laws of the United States; and (c) except as permitted under Sections 3.2, 12 and 13.6 of the Plan and Section 14 of the Agreement, may not be amended without the written consent of both the Corporation and the Employee. The Agreement shall not in any way interfere with or limit the rights of the Corporation to terminate the Employee's employment or service with the Corporation at any time, and no contract or right of employment shall be implied by these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement of which they form a part. For the purposes of these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement, (a) employment by the Corporation or any Subsidiary or a successor to the Corporation shall be considered employment by the Corporation, and (b) references to "termination of employment," "cessation of employment," "ceases to be employed," "ceases to be an Employee" or similar phrases shall mean the last day actually worked (as determined by the Corporation), and shall not include any notice period or any period of severance or separation pay or pay continuation (whether required by law or custom or otherwise provided) following the last day actually worked. If the Award is assumed or a new award is substituted therefor in any corporate reorganization (including, but not limited to, any transaction of the type referred to in Section 424(a) of the Code), employment by such assuming or substituting corporation or by a parent corporation or subsidiary thereof shall be considered for all purposes of the Award to be employment by the Corporation.
Miscellaneous
9. . If the Award Letter specifies that the Performance Units are to be paid in Shares, the Corporation shall not be required to issue Shares pursuant to the Award, to the extent required, unless and until (a) such Shares have been duly listed upon each stock exchange on which the Corporation's stock is then registered; and (b) a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to such Shares is then effective.
Securities Law Requirements
10. . The Board Committee shall have authority, subject to the express provisions of the Plan as in effect from time to time, to construe these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement and the Plan, to establish, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and to make all other determinations in the judgment of the Board Committee necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan. The Board Committee may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement in the manner and to the extent it shall deem expedient to carry the Plan into effect, and it shall be the sole and final judge of such expediency.
Board Committee Administration
11. . Unusual or non-recurring losses or charges which are separately identified and quantified in the Corporation's audited financial statements and notes thereto including, but not limited to, extraordinary items, changes in tax laws, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, impact of discontinued operations, restructuring charges, or restatement of prior period financial results, shall be excluded from the calculation of performance results for purposes of the Plan. However, the Board Committee can choose to include any or all such unusual or non-recurring items as long as inclusion of each such item causes the Award to be reduced.
Adjustments
12. . If any of the Corporation's financial statements are restated, as a result of errors, omissions, or fraud, the Board Committee may (in its sole discretion, but acting in good faith) direct that the Corporation recover all or a portion of any Award or payment made to the Employee with respect to any fiscal year of the Corporation the financial results of which are negatively affected by such restatement. The amount to be recovered shall be the amount by which the affected Award or payment exceeded the amount that would have been payable had the financial statements been initially filed as restated, or any greater or lesser amount (including, but not limited to, the entire Award) that the Board Committee shall determine. The Board Committee shall determine whether the Corporation shall effect any such recovery: (a) by seeking repayment from the Employee; (b) by reducing the amount that would otherwise be payable to the Employee under any compensatory plan, program or arrangement maintained by the Corporation, a Subsidiary or any of its Affiliates; (c) by withholding payment of future increases in compensation (including the payment of any discretionary bonus amount) or grants of compensatory awards that would otherwise have been made in accordance with the Corporation's otherwise applicable compensation practices; or (d) by any combination of the foregoing or otherwise (subject, in each of subclause (b), (c) and (d), to applicable law, including without limitation, Section 409A of the Code, and the terms and conditions of the applicable plan, program or arrangement). This Section 12 shall be a non-exclusive remedy and nothing in this Section 12 shall preclude the Corporation from pursuing any other applicable remedies available to it, whether in addition to, or in lieu of this Section 12.
Impact of Restatement of Financial Statements upon Awards
13. . These Terms and Conditions and the Agreement are made pursuant to the Plan, the provisions of which are hereby incorporated by reference. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth for such terms in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms of these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement and the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern.
Incorporation of Plan Provisions
14. . (a) The Agreement and the Plan are intended to be exempt from the provisions of Section 409A of the Code to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law. To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Agreement and the Plan comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code, so that the income inclusion provisions of Section 409A(a)(1) of the Code do not apply to the Employee. The Agreement and the Plan shall be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Agreement or the Plan to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code shall have no force and effect until amended to comply with Section 409A of the Code (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code and may be made by the Corporation without the consent of the Employee). Notwithstanding the foregoing, no particular tax result for the Employee with respect to any income recognized by the Employee in connection with the Agreement is guaranteed, and the Employee solely shall be responsible for any taxes, penalties or interest imposed on the Employee in connection with the Agreement.
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code
(b) Reference to Section 409A of the Code will also include any proposed, temporary or final regulations, or any other guidance, promulgated with respect to such Section by the U.S. Department of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service.

EXHIBIT 10.3
1. . Under and subject to the provisions of the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010, and as may be further amended from time to time, the "") and upon the terms and conditions set forth herein (these ""), Harris Corporation (the "") has granted to the employee receiving these Terms and Conditions (the "") a Restricted Stock Unit Award (the "") of such number of restricted stock units as set forth in the Award Letter (as defined below) from the Corporation to the Employee (such units, as may be adjusted in accordance with Section 1(c) of these Terms and Conditions, the ""). At all times, each Restricted Unit shall be equal in value to one share of common stock, $1.00 par value per share (the ""), of the Corporation (a ""). Such Award is subject to the following Terms and Conditions (these Terms and Conditions, together with the Corporation's letter to the Employee specifying the Restricted Units subject to the Award, the Restriction Period, the form of payment of the Award and certain other terms (the ""), are referred to as the "").
Restricted Stock Unit Award  Terms and Conditions
Plan
Terms and Conditions
Corporation
Employee
Award
Restricted Units
Common Stock
Share
Award Letter
Agreement
(a) . For purposes of this Agreement, the Restriction Period is the period beginning on the grant date and ending as set forth in the Award Letter (the ""). The Board Committee may, in accordance with the Plan and to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code (if applicable), accelerate the expiration of the Restriction Period as to some or all of the Restricted Units at any time.
Restriction Period
Restriction Period
(b) . Provided the Award has not previously been forfeited,
Payout of Award
as soon as administratively practicable following the expiration of the Restriction Period, but in no event later than sixty (60) days following the expiration of the Restriction Period, (i) if the Award Letter specifies that the Restricted Units are to be paid in Shares, the Corporation shall issue to the Employee in a single payment the number of Shares underlying the Restricted Units; or (ii) if the Award Letter specifies that the Restricted Units are to be paid in cash, the Corporation shall pay to the Employee a single lump sum cash payment equal to the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) of the number of Shares underlying the Restricted Units as of the date of the expiration of the Restriction Period. If the Award is to be paid in Shares, upon payout the Corporation shall at its option, cause such Shares as to which the Employee is entitled pursuant hereto: (i) to be released without restriction on transfer by delivery to the custody of the Employee of a stock certificate in the name of the Employee or his or her designee, or (ii) to be credited without restriction on transfer to a book-entry account for the benefit of the Employee or his or her designee maintained by the Corporation's stock transfer agent or its designee.
(c) . During the Restriction Period, the Employee shall not have any rights as a shareholder with respect to the Shares underlying the Restricted Units. During the Restriction Period, if the Corporation pays a dividend or makes other distributions on the Common Stock, the Employee shall be entitled to receive dividend equivalents, in cash, in the case of a cash dividend or cash distribution, or other property, in the case of a non-cash dividend or non-cash distribution, as applicable, paid or distributed with respect to the number of Shares underlying the Restricted Units. In the case of a dividend or other distribution paid in a form other than securities of the Corporation, such dividend equivalents will be paid to the Employee as soon as is practicable following payment of the dividend or other distribution to holders of Common Stock, but no later than the end of the calendar year in which the corresponding actual dividends or other distributions are paid to holders of Common Stock. If any such dividend or other distribution is paid in securities of the Corporation (including Shares), such dividend equivalents in respect of such securities relating to the Restricted Units shall be subject to the same restrictions and conditions as the Restricted Units in respect of which such dividend or distribution in the form of such securities was made and shall be paid to the Employee in the manner and at the time the Restricted Units are paid. If the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock is changed as a result of a stock dividend, stock split or the like, without additional consideration to the Corporation, the Restricted Units subject to the Award shall be adjusted to correspond to the change in the Corporation's outstanding shares of Common Stock. If the Award Letter specifies that the Restricted Units are to be paid in Shares, upon the expiration of the Restriction Period and payout of the Award, the Employee may exercise voting rights and shall be entitled to receive dividends and other distributions with respect to the number of Shares to which the Employee is entitled pursuant hereto.
Rights During Restriction Period; Dividend Equivalents
2. . Until the expiration of the Restriction Period and payout of the Award, the Award, the Restricted Units subject to the Award, any interest in the Shares (in the case of a payout to be made in Shares as specified in the Award Letter) or cash to be paid, as applicable, related thereto, and the rights granted under these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement are not transferable except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution in the event of the Employee's death. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, except as aforesaid, until the expiration of the Restriction Period and payout of the Award, the Award, the Restricted Units subject to the Award, and any interest in the Shares (in the case of a payout to be made in Shares as specified in the Award Letter) or cash to be paid, as applicable, related thereto may not be sold, exchanged, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated, encumbered or otherwise disposed of, shall not be assignable by operation of law, and shall not be subject to execution, attachment, charge, alienation or similar process. Any attempt to effect any of the foregoing shall be null and void and without effect.
Prohibition Against Transfer
3. .
Forfeiture; Termination of Employment
(a) Except in the event of the permanent disability (as determined by the Corporation) of the Employee covered in Section 3(b) herein, death of the Employee covered in Section 3(c) herein, or Change in Control covered in Section 4 herein, or as otherwise provided in the Award Letter, if the Employee ceases to be an employee of the Corporation prior to the expiration of the Restriction Period:
(i) for any reason other than (x) retirement after age 55 with ten or more years of full-time service or (y) involuntary termination of employment of the Employee by the Corporation other than for Misconduct, all Restricted Units subject to the Award shall be automatically forfeited upon such termination of employment; or
(ii) due to retirement after age 55 with ten or more years of full-time service, or due to involuntary termination of employment of the Employee by the Corporation other than for Misconduct, the Employee shall be fully vested in and entitled to receive a pro-rata portion of the payout in respect of the Restricted Units subject to the Award, and the remaining portion of the Restricted Units subject to the Award shall be automatically forfeited as of the date of such retirement or termination of employment. Such pro-rata portion shall be measured by a fraction, of which the numerator is the number of days of the Restriction Period during which the Employee's employment continued, and the denominator is the number of days of the Restriction Period. The Restricted Units that are vested pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3(a)(ii), if any, shall continue to be subject to the Restriction Period until the expiration thereof, at which time the pro-rata portion of the payout in respect of such Restricted Units required to be paid under this Section 3 shall be made in the form and at the time specified in Section 1(b) (or, in the event that subsequent to the Employee's retirement after age 55 with ten or more years of full-time service or involuntary termination of employment of the Employee by the Corporation other than for Misconduct, the Restriction Period expires pursuant to Section 3(c) due to the Employee's death, in the form and at the time specified in Section 3(c)). "" shall mean deliberate, willful or gross misconduct as determined by the Corporation.
Misconduct
(b) If the Employee ceases to be an employee of the Corporation prior to the expiration of the Restriction Period due to permanent disability (as determined by the Corporation), the Employee shall be entitled to receive a payout in respect of, and be fully vested in, the total number of Restricted Units subject to the Award. The Restricted Units that become vested pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3(b) shall continue to be subject to the Restriction Period until the expiration thereof, at which time payout of the Restricted Units shall be made in the form and at the time specified in Section 1(b) (or, in the event that subsequent to the Employee's cessation of employment due to permanent disability (as determined by the Corporation), the Restriction Period expires pursuant to Section 3(c) due to the Employee's death, in the form and at the time specified in Section 3(c)).
(c) If the Employee ceases to be an employee of the Corporation prior to the expiration of the Restriction Period due to death, the Employee's heirs or beneficiaries, as applicable, shall be entitled to receive a payout in respect of, and be fully vested in, the total number of Restricted Units subject to the Award. In such case, or if the Employee dies subsequent to his retirement after age 55 with ten or more years of full-time service, involuntary termination of employment of the Employee by the Corporation other than for Misconduct or cessation of employment due to permanent disability (as determined by the Corporation), the Restriction Period shall immediately expire and the Restricted Units subject to the Award as of the date of the Employee's death, if any, shall be paid in the form specified in Section 1(b) within sixty (60) days following the date of the Employee's death.
4. . Upon a Change in Control as defined in Section 11.1 of the Plan that qualifies as a "change in control event" within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5), then the Employee shall be entitled to receive a payout in respect of, and be fully vested in, the total number of Restricted Units subject to the Award, the Restriction Period shall immediately expire and the Restricted Units subject to the Award shall be paid in the form specified in Section 1(b) as soon as administratively practicable, but in no event later than sixty (60) days following such Change in Control. In the event of a Change in Control that does not qualify as a "change in control event" within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5), then the Employee shall be entitled to receive a payout in respect of, and be fully vested in, the total number of Restricted Units subject to the Award; , , that such Restricted Units shall continue to be subject to the Restriction Period until the expiration thereof, at which time payout of the Restricted Units shall be made in the form and at the time specified in Section 1(b) or 3(c), as applicable.
Change in Control
provided
however
5. . In consideration of the grant of the Award to the Employee under these Terms and Conditions, the Employee agrees, by the acceptance of the Award, that for a period of twelve (12) months immediately following the date of termination of employment of the Employee with the Corporation, the Employee shall not directly or indirectly recruit or solicit for hire or hire, or assist in any manner in the recruitment, solicitation for hire or hiring of any employee or officer of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries, or in any way induce any such employee or officer to terminate his or her employment with the Corporation or its Subsidiaries.
Non-Solicitation
6. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 3 above, if the Employee, whether during employment or after termination of employment of the Employee with the Corporation, engages in any conduct in breach of any written non-solicitation (whether under Section 5 above or otherwise), non-competition or non-disparagement agreement or undertaking, or any similar written agreement or undertaking for the protection of the business of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, whether now or hereafter in effect, then: (i) all Restricted Units subject to the Award shall be automatically forfeited upon the occurrence of such breach; and (ii) to the extent provided by, and in accordance with, the terms of such written agreement or undertaking, in the event of a breach thereof, the Corporation shall have the right to reclaim and receive from the Employee all Shares and cash, as applicable, delivered to the Employee upon release or credit pursuant to Section 1(b) above, or to the extent the Employee has transferred such Shares, the Fair Market Value thereof (as of the date the Shares were transferred by the Employee) in cash. If a Change in Control shall occur, this Section 6 shall immediately terminate and be of no further force and effect.
Effect of Breach of Restrictive Covenants
7. . These Terms and Conditions and the other portions of the Agreement: (a) shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor of the Corporation; (b) shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware and any applicable laws of the United States; and (c) except as permitted under Sections 3.2, 12 and 13.6 of the Plan and Section 11 of this Agreement, may not be amended without the written consent of both the Corporation and the Employee. The Agreement shall not in any way interfere with or limit the right of the Corporation to terminate the Employee's employment or service with the Corporation at any time, and no contract or right of employment shall be implied by these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement of which they form a part. For purposes of these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement, (a) employment by the Corporation or any Subsidiary or a successor to the Corporation shall be considered employment by the Corporation and (b) references to "termination of employment," "cessation of employment," "ceases to be employed," "ceases to be an Employee" or similar phrases shall mean the last day actually worked (as determined by the Corporation), and shall not include any notice period or any period of severance or separation pay or pay continuation (whether required by law or custom or otherwise provided) following the last day actually worked. If the Award is assumed or a new award is substituted therefor in any corporate reorganization (including, but not limited to, any transaction of the type referred to in Section 424(a) of the Code), employment by such assuming or substituting corporation or by a parent corporation or subsidiary thereof shall be considered for all purposes of the Award to be employment by the Corporation.
Miscellaneous
8. . If the Award Letter specifies that the Restricted Units are to be paid in Shares, the Corporation shall not be required to issue Shares pursuant to the Award, to the extent required, unless and until (a) such Shares have been duly listed upon each stock exchange on which the Corporation's Common Stock is then registered; and (b) a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to such Shares is then effective.
Securities Law Requirements
9. . The Board Committee shall have authority, subject to the express provisions of the Plan as in effect from time to time, to construe these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement and the Plan, to establish, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and to make all other determinations in the judgment of the Board Committee necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan. The Board Committee may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement in the manner and to the extent it shall deem expedient to carry the Plan into effect, and it shall be the sole and final judge of such expediency.
Board Committee Administration
10. . These Terms and Conditions and the Agreement are made pursuant to the Plan, the provisions of which are hereby incorporated by reference. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth for such terms in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms of these Terms and Conditions and the Agreement and the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern.
Incorporation of Plan Provisions
11. . The Agreement and the Plan are intended to be exempt from the provisions of Section 409A of the Code to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law. To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Agreement and the Plan comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code, so that the income inclusion provisions of Section 409A(a)(1) of the Code do not apply to the Employee. The Agreement and the Plan shall be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Agreement or the Plan to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code shall have no force and effect until amended to comply with Section 409A of the Code (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code and may be made by the Corporation without the consent of the Employee). Notwithstanding the foregoing, no particular tax result for the Employee with respect to any income recognized by the Employee in connection with the Agreement is guaranteed, and the Employee solely shall be responsible for any taxes, penalties or interest imposed on the Employee in connection with the Agreement. Reference to Section 409A of the Code will also include any proposed, temporary or final regulations, or any other guidance, promulgated with respect to such Section by the U.S. Department of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service.
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code


