FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20110406164237.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On April 4, 2011, Harris Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Harris"), and certain of its subsidiaries, completed the acquisition from Schlumberger B.V., a company incorporated in the Netherlands (the "Seller"), and its affiliates, of substantially all of the assets of the Global Connectivity Services business of the Schlumberger group (the "Business"). The Business provides global communications services for a wide range of customers primarily in the oil and gas industries, including the Schlumberger group. The acquisition was consummated pursuant to the terms of the Share and Business Sale Agreement, dated as of November 6, 2010, between Harris and the Seller (the "Agreement"). Harris previously disclosed the entry into the Agreement in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Harris with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 12, 2010.
The purchase price for the Business was $397,500,000 in cash, subject to post-closing adjustments as set forth in the Agreement. Pursuant to the Agreement, Harris also assumed liabilities related to the Business, with exceptions and subject to certain indemnities as set forth in the Agreement. These exceptions include certain pension and benefits, criminal and civil liabilities incurred on or prior to closing. These indemnities include indemnities in respect of liabilities in connection with certain excluded contracts or assets and in respect of certain tax, employment, environmental and product warranty liabilities incurred on or prior to closing, subject in certain cases to certain time, monetary and other limitations on the Seller's liability in respect thereof as set forth in the Agreement.
No material relationship exists between the Seller or its affiliates and Harris or its affiliates, or any director or officer of Harris, or any associate of any such director or officer, other than in respect of the Agreement and related documentation. Pursuant to the Agreement, at the closing, Harris and its applicable affiliates, on the one hand, and the Seller and its applicable affiliates, on the other hand, entered into, among other agreements, (1) master services agreements relating to certain satellite telecommunications services to be provided to members of the Seller's group by the Harris group, and (2) a transitional services agreement relating to the provision of certain services by the Seller's group to the Harris group.
The foregoing description of the acquisition by Harris of the Business, the Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby is only a summary, does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with, the full text of the Agreement, which was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to Harris' Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 12, 2010, and is incorporated in this Item 2.01 by reference.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On April 4, 2011, Harris issued a press release in which it announced that it had completed the acquisition of Carefx Corporation ("Carefx"), a provider of interoperability workflow solutions for hospitals, healthcare systems and health information exchanges across North America, Europe and Asia. The full text of the press release announcing the completion of the acquisition of Carefx is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
On April 5, 2011, Harris issued a press release in which it announced that it had completed the acquisition of the Business. The full text of the press release announcing the completion of the acquisition of the Business is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Item 7.01, including the accompanying Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
     The following exhibit is filed herewith:
     The following exhibits are furnished herewith:
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Highlights:
 Harris Corporation (NYSE:HRS), an international communications and information technology company, has completed its previously announced acquisition of Carefx Corporation, a leading provider of interoperability workflow solutions for government and commercial healthcare providers. Privately held Carefx was purchased for $155 million in cash, subject to post-closing adjustments.
MELBOURNE, FL/SCOTTSDALE, AZ, April 4, 2011
Carefx Chairman and CEO Andrew Hurd will continue to lead the business, which will become part of the company's Healthcare Solutions business. The acquisition leverages the outstanding healthcare interoperability workflow products offered by Carefx and the broad scale of enterprise intelligence solutions and services provided by Harris.
The Carefx Fusionfx platform incorporates the latest standards-based technologies and industry best practices to streamline retrieval, access and use of patient information. Fusionfx aggregates patient information across existing systems and delivers it in a single, clear, clinically relevant view to physicians at the point of care.
The Fusionfx platform is used in more than 800 hospitals, healthcare systems and health information exchanges across North America, Europe and Asia. Carefx customers include the Boston Medical Center, Emory University Hospital, Northwestern Medical Hospital, the Louisiana Rural Health Information Exchange, Johns Hopkins Health System and Cambridge University Hospitals.
"The Fusionfx solution is the industry standard in providing interoperability between disparate hospital systems, giving clinicians the information they need when they need it," said Jim Traficant, vice president and general manager, Harris Healthcare Solutions. "This acquisition marks an unprecedented opportunity to establish Harris and Carefx as the global leader of interoperability solutions."
Harris provides a range of healthcare enterprise intelligence solutions and services for commercial and government customers, including interoperability, imaging, managed services infrastructure, systems and cyber integration, and informatics. Harris products, systems, and services improve health outcomes by ensuring that the right information is delivered with security and privacy to the right person, on the right device, at the point of care.
Harris is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 150 countries. Headquartered in Melbourne, Florida, the company has approximately $6 billion of annual revenue and more than 16,000 employees  including nearly 7,000 engineers and scientists. Harris is dedicated to developing best-in-class products, systems, and services. Additional information about Harris Corporation is available at .
About Harris Corporation
assured
communications
www.harris.com
Contact Information:
Harris Corporation  Washington, DC 202-729-3732
Marc Raimondi
marc.raimondi@harris.com
Harris Corporation 321-727-9131
Jim Burke
jim.burke@harris.com
Carefx 480-833-5010 x446
Amy Ferretti
aferretti@carefx.com
 
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations, assumptions, and estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Such statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements in this release include but are not limited to statements about the expected value and anticipated benefits of the transaction to Harris and statements regarding outlook. The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results and future trends to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. Further information relating to factors that may impact the company's results and forward-looking statements are disclosed in the company's filings with the SEC. The forward-looking statements contained in this release are made as of the date of this release, and the company disclaims any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements

Exhibit 99.2
Highlights:
 Harris Corporation (NYSE:HRS), an international communications and information technology company, has completed its previously announced acquisition of the Global Connectivity Services (GCS) business from an operating unit of Schlumberger.
MELBOURNE, FL/HOUSTON, TX, April 5, 2011
Harris combined the former Schlumberger GCS business with its existing Maritime Communications Services business and the recently acquired CapRock Communications, and infrastructure assets from Core180's government business to form Harris CapRock Communications  the leading provider of managed communications services for remote and harsh environments including those in the energy, government and maritime industries.
"Integrating these businesses into a single enterprise creates an organization with unsurpassed satellite and terrestrial networks capabilities, end-to-end service offerings, and an experienced service team that will provide customers with unsurpassed in-the-field support on a global scale," said Howard L. Lance, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Harris. "Harris CapRock Communications will use its capabilities and expertise to offer customers the most secure, reliable and efficient communications solutions in the industry."
Harris CapRock Communications has more than three decades of experience serving customers in more than 100 countries. The business has more than 1,400 employees, a local presence in 23 countries and a robust self-owned and operated infrastructure that includes teleports on six continents, six 24/7 Network Operation Centers and an extensive terrestrial network. Harris CapRock Communications delivers trusted and reliable comprehensive communications and IT solutions that make it possible for clients to stay focused on their missions.
Solutions from the newly combined business include mission-critical communications, converged voice, video and data, highly reliable and secure connectivity, and rapid and mobile deployments. Energy customers include national oil companies, major oil companies, independent oil companies, oil field service companies, seismic companies, oil and gas marine companies, rig owners and management companies. Maritime industry customers include international shipping and service companies. Government customers include defense, homeland security, and other federal civilian agencies.
Harris CapRock Communications also will leverage Harris' strong and expanding technology and service capabilities  along with its growing global presence  to provide integrated solutions to meet individual customer and market needs. Harris is unique in its
 
ability to integrate advanced technology and services to capture, aggregate, distribute, and analyze any type of communications or information  including voice, video, data, and imaging.
Harris has built some of the world's most trusted networks for customers in established markets including defense, intelligence, air traffic control, public safety, and broadcast. Harris is extending this reach into new markets, including healthcare, energy, cloud computing and others.
Harris purchased the Schlumberger GCS business for $397.5 million in cash, subject to post-closing adjustments. The purchase price was paid from cash on hand. The goodwill arising from the acquisition will be an allowable tax expense with an estimated net present value of $50 million, resulting in an effective purchase price of $347.5 million.
Harris is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 150 countries. Headquartered in Melbourne, Florida, the company has approximately $6 billion of annual revenue and more than 16,000 employees  including nearly 7,000 engineers and scientists. Harris is dedicated to developing best-in-class products, systems, and services. Additional information about Harris Corporation is available at .
About Harris Corporation
assured communications
www.harris.com
Contact Information:
Harris CapRock Communications 832-668-2383
Christy Hartman
chartm01@harris.com
Harris Corporation  Washington, DC 202-729-3732
Marc Raimondi
marc.raimondi@harris.com
Harris Corporation 321-727-9131
Jim Burke
jim.burke@harris.com
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations, assumptions, and estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Such statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements in this release include but are not limited to: impact of the acquisition of Schlumberger GCS on Harris earnings, and statements regarding outlook, including growth opportunities. The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results and future trends to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. The company's consolidated results and the forward-looking statements could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to: the loss of our relationship with the U.S. government or a shift in U.S. government funding; potential changes in U.S. government or customer priorities; risks inherent with large long-term fixed-price contracts, particularly the ability to contain cost overruns; financial and government and regulatory risks relating to international sales and operations; our ability to continue to develop new products that achieve market acceptance; the consequences of future geo-political events; strategic acquisitions and the risks and uncertainties related thereto, including our ability to manage and integrate acquired businesses; performance of our subcontractors and suppliers; potential claims that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties; the successful resolution of patent infringement claims and the ultimate outcome of other contingencies, litigation and legal matters; risks inherent in developing new technologies; changes in our effective tax rate; the potential impact of natural disasters or other disruptions on our operations; the potential impact of a security breach, through cyber attack or otherwise, or other significant disruptions of our IT networks and systems or those we operate for customers; the potential impact of satellite bandwidth constraints on our managed satellite communications services; changes in future business conditions that could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired; and the general downturn in the global economy. Further information relating to factors that may impact the company's results and forward-looking statements are disclosed in the company's filings with the SEC. The forward-looking statements contained in this release are made as of the date of this release, and the company disclaims any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements


