FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20110308093628.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
     
The information contained in this Current Report on
Form 8-K
that is furnished under this Item 2.02 and 7.01, including the accompanying Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and 7.01 of
Form 8-K
and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section. The information contained in this Current Report on
Form 8-K
that is furnished under this Item 2.02 and 7.01, including the accompanying Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     On March 8, 2011, Harris Corporation ("Harris" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing that, among other things, it is realigning its operating businesses to provide increased market focus and address the fast-growing global market for integrated communications and information technology and services. The Company also confirmed its previous guidance regarding expected net income per diluted share and revenue for fiscal 2011. The full text of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     As a result of the business realignment referred to above, effective for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 (which began on January 1, 2011 and ends April 1, 2011), the Company is changing its operating segment reporting structure and will report its financial results in the following three operating segments:
     The Company's new operating segment reporting structure reflects that the Harris IT Services, Harris CapRock Communications, Healthcare Solutions and Cyber Integrated Solutions businesses will no longer be part of the Government Communications Systems reporting segment, but will instead be combined with the Broadcast Communications business (previously a separate reporting segment) to form the new Integrated Network Solutions reporting segment. The Company's RF Communications reporting segment will not change.
     The Company's consolidated financial statements for periods ending after December 31, 2010 will reflect the Company's new operating segment reporting structure, including reclassification of all comparative prior period operating segment information.
     The Company is providing in Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, for comparative purposes, unaudited historical reclassified operating segment data for the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the first two quarters of fiscal 2011, each quarter of fiscal 2010, full fiscal 2010, each quarter of fiscal 2009 and full fiscal 2009, in each case reflecting the change in the operating segment reporting structure. Exhibit 99.2 is furnished herewith and is incorporated herein by reference. The realignment has no impact on the Company's previously reported consolidated statements of income, balance sheets, statements of cash flows or statements of comprehensive income and equity. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, should be read in conjunction with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2010, the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 1, 2010 and the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2010, which reports have previously been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
     The press release and Exhibit 99.2 include a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures, including: guidance for net income per diluted share for fiscal 2011, guidance for operating margin for the Integrated Network Solutions segment for fiscal 2011, and the results of the RF Communications, Government Communications Systems and Integrated Network Solutions segments, in each case excluding, as the case may be, the impact of certain costs, charges, expenses and losses; and guidance for organic revenue growth for the Integrated Network Solutions segment for fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010, adjusting for the impact of the acquisitions of CapRock Communications ("CapRock"), Patriot Technologies, LLC ("Patriot") and SignaCert, Inc. ("SignaCert"). A "non-GAAP financial measure" is generally defined as a numerical measure of a company's historical or future performance that excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments, so as to be different from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Guidance for net income per diluted share for fiscal 2011, guidance for operating margin for the Integrated Network Solutions segment for fiscal 2011, and the results of the RF Communications, Government Communications Systems and Integrated
 
Network Solutions segments, in each case excluding, as the case may be, the impact of charges for certain costs and expenses associated with the acquisition of CapRock, the Tyco Electronics Wireless Systems business, Crucial Security, Inc., the Air Traffic Control business unit of SolaCom Technologies Inc., Patriot, and SignaCert, and of a charge related to impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets associated with previous acquisitions in our Broadcast Communications business; and guidance for organic revenue growth for the Integrated Network Solutions segment for fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010, adjusting for the impact of the acquisitions of CapRock, Patriot and SignaCert, are financial measures that are not defined by GAAP and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, financial measures on a GAAP basis. The press release and Exhibit 99.2 include a reconciliation of disclosed non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
     Harris' management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that may, or could, have a disproportionately positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Harris' management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze trends in Harris' business and to understand Harris' performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management compensation purposes. Please refer to Harris' financial statements and accompanying footnotes for additional information and for a presentation of results in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are furnished herewith:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 8, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Harris Corporation (NYSE:HRS), an international communications and information technology company, has strategically realigned its operating businesses to provide increased market focus and address the fast-growing global market for integrated communications and information technology and services. The realignment will enable the company to effectively integrate its technology, products and services to meet the demands of government and commercial markets.
MELBOURNE, Florida, March 8, 2011
The three Harris segments are:
"Harris has established a strong reputation and track record for delivering innovative solutions across an increasingly broad spectrum of markets. This strategic business realignment will enable each of our segments to more effectively combine technologies, products and services from throughout the company into integrated solutions tailored for the specific markets that they serve," said Howard L. Lance, chairman, president and chief executive officer.
"This approach represents a tremendous opportunity for our current and prospective customers, as we introduce more integrated end-to-end solutions for existing and new markets. This realignment positions the company to further expand into adjacent markets and global regions that are growing faster and have higher margins than some of our traditional government markets," he added.
 
Integrated Network Solutions
Integrated Network Solutions represents a new segment that combines the resources and capabilities of existing and recently acquired operations into a powerful organization targeting the fast-growing global market for highly reliable and secure communications and IT networks.
The new segment will leverage the company's strong and expanding technology and service capabilities  along with its growing global presence  to provide integrated solutions to meet individual customer and market needs. Harris is unique in its ability to integrate advanced technology and services to capture, aggregate, distribute, and analyze any type of communications or information  including voice, video, data, and imaging.
Integrated Network Solutions builds on Harris' legacy of creating and operating some of the world's most trusted networks for customers in established markets including defense, intelligence, air traffic control, public safety, and broadcast. The company is extending this reach into new markets, including healthcare, energy, cloud computing, sports, entertainment, and retail venues. Harris customers operate under very demanding requirements where high reliability and secure communications is critical.
"Commercial businesses and government customers around the globe are increasingly seeking total solutions  combining innovative technology with managed services," said Dan Pearson, executive vice president and chief operating officer, and acting group president for the new segment. "With a flexible technology and managed services approach, Integrated Network Solutions is uniquely positioned to create tailored end-to-end solutions for customers seeking a trusted communications and IT partner."
The company will report its financial results under the new segment structure effective with its third quarter of fiscal 2011, which ends April 1, 2011.
The company has reiterated its previous guidance for non-GAAP net income for fiscal 2011 in the range of $4.80 to $4.90 per diluted share ($4.73 to $4.83 per diluted share on a GAAP basis). Fiscal 2011 non-GAAP earnings guidance excludes acquisition-related costs. Fiscal 2011 revenue is still expected to be at the high end of the $5.9 to $6.0 billion range, which represents a year-over-year increase of about 15 percent compared with the prior year. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures is provided in Tables 1 and 2 along with accompanying notes.
Earnings Guidance
 
There have been no changes to previous guidance other than giving effect to the segment realignment. In the RF Communications segment, fiscal 2011 revenue is still expected to be in the range of 9 to 10 percent higher, compared with the prior year, and operating margin is still expected to be in the range of 34 to 35 percent. In the realigned Government Communications Systems segment, fiscal 2011 revenue is expected to be in the range of 3 to 5 percent higher, compared with the prior year, and operating margin is expected to be in the range of 12.5 to 13.0 percent. In the new Integrated Network Solutions segment, fiscal 2011 revenue is expected to be in the range of 33 to 35 percent higher, compared with the prior year, which represents organic revenue growth in the range of 7 to 9 percent. Non-GAAP operating margin in the segment is expected to be in the range of 5 to 6 percent.
Harris is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 150 countries. Headquartered in Melbourne, Florida, the company has approximately $5 billion of annual revenue and more than 16,000 employees  including nearly 7,000 engineers and scientists. Harris is dedicated to developing best-in-class products, systems, and services. Additional information about Harris Corporation is available at .
About Harris Corporation
assured communications
www.harris.com
This press release contains non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the SEC, including fiscal 2011 guidance for income per diluted share, excluding acquisition-related costs; fiscal 2011 operating margin for the Integrated Network Solutions segment, excluding acquisition-related costs; and fiscal 2011 organic revenue growth guidance for the Integrated Network Solutions segment, adjusting for the impact of acquisitions. Harris management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that may, or could, have a disproportionately positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze Harris business trends and to understand Harris performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting, and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management compensation purposes. Any analysis of non-GAAP financial measures should be used only in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Tables.
Attachment:
 
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations, assumptions, and estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Such statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements in this release include but are not limited to: earnings and revenue guidance for fiscal 2011, fiscal 2011 segment revenue and operating margin guidance; and statements regarding outlook. The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results and future trends to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. The company's consolidated results and the forward-looking statements could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to: the loss of our relationship with the U.S. government or a shift in U.S. government funding; potential changes in U.S. government or customer priorities; risks inherent with large long-term fixed-price contracts, particularly the ability to contain cost overruns; financial and government and regulatory risks relating to international sales and operations; our ability to continue to develop new products that achieve market acceptance; the consequences of future geo-political events; strategic acquisitions and the risks and uncertainties related thereto, including our ability to manage and integrate acquired businesses; performance of our subcontractors and suppliers; potential claims that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties; the successful resolution of patent infringement claims and the ultimate outcome of other contingencies, litigation and legal matters; risks inherent in developing new technologies; changes in our effective tax rate; the potential impact of natural disasters or other disruptions on our operations; the potential impact of a security breach, through cyber attack or otherwise, or other significant disruptions of our IT networks and systems or those we operate for customers; the potential impact of satellite bandwidth constraints on our managed satellite communications services; changes in future business conditions that could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired; and the general downturn in the global economy. Further information relating to factors that may impact the company's results and forward-looking statements are disclosed in the company's filings with the SEC. The forward-looking statements contained in this release are made as of the date of this release, and the company disclaims any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward Looking Statements
Pamela Padgett at 321-727-9383, or
Investor Relations inquiries:
pamela.padgett@harris.com
Jim Burke at 321-727-9131, or
Media inquiries:
jim.burke@harris.com
For additional information, contact Harris Corporation at .
webmaster@harris.com
 
To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we provide additional measures of segments' operating income; cost of product sales and services; engineering, selling and administrative expenses; income before income taxes; income taxes; net income; and net income per diluted share adjusted to exclude certain costs, charges, expenses and losses. Harris management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that may, or could, have a disproportionately positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Harris management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze Harris' business trends and to understand Harris' performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting, and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management compensation purposes. Any analysis of non-GAAP financial measures should be used only in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP follows:
 
 
 
Notes to tables 1 and 2:
 Adjustment for pre-tax charges of $19.3 million ($.11 per diluted share) for fiscal 2010 related to integration and other costs associated with our acquisition of the Tyco Electronics Wireless Systems business.
Note A
 Adjustment for pre-tax charges of $4.2 million ($.02 per diluted share) for fiscal 2010 related to integration and other costs associated with our acquisitions of Crucial Security, Inc., the Air Traffic control business unit of SolaCom Technologies Inc., Patriot Technologies, LLC and SignaCert, Inc.
Note B
 Adjustment for pre-tax charges of $2.6 million ($.02 per diluted share) for fiscal 2010 and estimated pre-tax charges of $12.0 million ($.07 per diluted share) for fiscal 2011 related to integration and other costs associated with our acquisition of CapRock Communications ("CapRock").
Note C
 Adjustment for estimated pre-tax charges of $12.0 million for fiscal 2011 related to integration and other costs associated with our acquisition of CapRock.
Note D

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
To supplement Tables 1 through 3, presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), Tables 4 through 6 and the related notes set forth reclassified operating segment data and other financial information to reflect changes in Harris' business and organizational structure, effective for the third quarter of fiscal 2011, as adjusted to exclude certain costs, charges, expenses and losses. Harris management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the GAAP financial measures, provide information that is useful to investors in understanding period-over-period operating results separate and apart from items that may, or could, have a disproportionately positive or negative impact on results in any particular period. Harris management also believes that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the ability of investors to analyze Harris' business trends and to understand Harris' performance. In addition, Harris may utilize non-GAAP financial measures as a guide in its forecasting, budgeting, and long-term planning process and to measure operating performance for some management compensation purposes. Any analysis of non-GAAP financial measures should be used only in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP follows:
 
 
 
 
Notes to tables 4 through 6:
 Integrated Network Solutions segment non-GAAP operating income for the quarter ended October 1, 2010, the quarter ended December 31, 2010 and the two quarters ended December 31, 2010 excludes pre-tax charges related to integration and other costs associated with the acquisition of CapRock Communications ("CapRock") ($2.0 million, $4.2 million and $6.2 million, respectively).
Note A
 RF Communications segment non-GAAP operating income for the quarter ended October 2, 2009 excludes pre-tax charges related to integration and other costs and the impact of a step up in inventory associated with the acquisition of the Tyco Electronics Wireless Systems business ("Wireless Systems") ($6.5 million). RF Communications segment non-GAAP operating income for the quarter ended January 1, 2010, the quarter ended April 2, 2010 and the quarter ended July 2, 2010 excludes pre-tax charges related to integration and other costs associated with the acquisition of Wireless Systems ($2.7 million, $3.7 million and $6.4 million, respectively). RF Communications segment non-GAAP operating income for total fiscal 2010 excludes pre-tax charges related to integration and other costs and the impact of a step up in inventory associated with the acquisition of Wireless Systems ($19.3 million).
Note B
 Government Communications Systems segment non-GAAP operating income for the quarter ended October 2, 2009, the quarter ended January 1, 2010, the quarter ended April 2, 2010, the quarter ended July 2, 2010 and total fiscal 2010 excludes pre-tax charges related to integration and other costs associated with the acquisitions of Crucial Security, Inc. ("Crucial") ($0.4 million, $0.4 million, $0.6 million, $0.1 million and $1.5 million, respectively) and the Air Traffic Control business unit of SolaCom Technologies Inc. ("SolaCom ATC") ($0.3 million, $0.3 million, $0.2 million, $0.1 million and $0.9 million, respectively).
Note C
 Integrated Network Solutions segment non-GAAP operating income for the quarter ended January 1, 2010 and the quarter ended April 2, 2010 excludes pre-tax charges related to integration and other costs associated with the acquisition of Patriot Technologies, LLC ("Patriot") ($0.1 million and $0.8 million, respectively). Integrated Network Solutions segment non-GAAP operating loss for the quarter ended July 2, 2010 and non-GAAP operating income for total fiscal 2010 excludes pre-tax charges related to integration and other costs associated with the acquisitions of Patriot ($0.6 million and $1.5 million, respectively), SignaCert, Inc. ($0.3 million and $0.3 million, respectively) and CapRock ($2.6 million and $2.6 million, respectively).
Note D
 RF Communications segment non-GAAP operating income for the quarter ended July 3, 2009 and total fiscal 2009 excludes pre-tax charges related to the impact of a step up in inventory, integration and other costs and a write-off of in-process research and development associated with the acquisition of Wireless Systems ($9.5 million and $9.5 million, respectively).
Note E
 Government Communications Systems segment non-GAAP operating income for the quarter ended July 3, 2009 and total fiscal 2009 excludes pre-tax charges related to integration and other costs associated with the acquisition of Crucial ($0.6 million and $0.6 million, respectively).
Note F
 Integrated Network Solutions segment non-GAAP operating income for the quarter ended July 3, 2009 and total fiscal 2009 excludes pre-tax charges related to impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets associated with previous acquisitions in the Broadcast Communications business ($255.5 million and $255.5 million, respectively).
Note G


