FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20120227083624.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 24, 2012, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Harris Corporation (the "Company" or "Harris") approved a plan to exit the Company's cyber integrated solutions operation that provided remote cloud hosting and to dispose of the related assets, including the cyber integration center facility in Harrisonburg, Virginia and remote cloud hosting equipment. The Company has concluded that although it believes demand will continue for cyber security and cloud-enabled solutions, its government and commercial customers currently continue to prefer hosting mission-critical information on their own premises rather than remotely. The approved exit plan affects only the Company's cyber integrated solutions operation that provided remote cloud hosting and does not affect the Company's other cyber capabilities, such as advanced cyber security and cloud-enabled software applications and solutions as a service, which the Company will continue to provide.
In connection with the approved plan to exit the cyber integrated solutions operation, the Company expects to incur total estimated pre-tax charges of $113 million to $129 million ($70 million to $80 million after-tax or $0.61 to $0.70 per diluted share), almost all of which are expected to be reflected in the Company's results for the third quarter of fiscal 2012. These estimated pre-tax charges are expected to be comprised of approximately $109 million to $125 million in impairment of long-lived assets; $1 million in one-time employee termination costs, including severance and other benefits; and $3 million in other associated exit or disposal costs. The Company expects that approximately $4 million of these estimated pre-tax charges will result in future cash expenditures. The Company expects to complete these exit and disposal activities by the end of its fiscal 2012.
The cyber integrated solutions operation that provided remote cloud hosting was part of the Company's Integrated Network Solutions business segment and now will be reflected as being discontinued and the related assets as held for sale. The amounts of the charges and costs noted above are estimates, and actual charges and costs may vary based upon various factors, including factors relating to the proceeds from the sale of the cyber integration center facility and remote cloud hosting equipment, changes in management's assumptions and other factors.
On February 27, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the plan to exit its cyber integrated solutions operation that provided remote cloud hosting. The full text of that press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Forward-Looking Statements.
The foregoing contains forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations, assumptions and estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Such statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). The Company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results and future trends to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. Statements about the Company's expectations or amounts of estimated charges and costs associated with the approved plan and the timing of the completion of such exit and disposal activities are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties. Other factors that may impact the Company's results and forward-looking statements may be disclosed in the Company's filings with the SEC. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
The information required to be disclosed under this Item 2.06 is included under Item 2.05 above and is incorporated in this Item 2.06 by reference.
 
The Company is furnishing in Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K supplemental information relating to the results of operations of the Company's cyber integrated solutions operation for each quarter of fiscal 2011, for fiscal 2011 and for the first two quarters of fiscal 2012. Such Exhibit 99.2 is furnished herewith and is incorporated in this Item 7.01 by reference. The information contained in this Item 7.01, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.2, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liability of that section and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
On February 27, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing that the Board increased the current quarterly cash dividend from $0.28 per share to $0.33 per share. The full text of that press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 27, 2012
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
  Harris Corporation (NYSE:HRS), an international communications and information technology company, plans to discontinue its Cyber Integrated Solutions operation  which provided remote cloud hosting  and sell its related data center facility in Harrisonburg, Virginia. The operation is part of the company's Integrated Network Solutions segment.
MELBOURNE, Florida, February 27, 2012
The company determined that although demand continues for cyber security and cloud-enabled solutions, its government and commercial customers currently prefer hosting mission-critical information on their own premises rather than remotely.
Harris will continue to provide its customers with advanced cyber security and cloud-enabled software applications and solutions as a service. Harris engineers have developed and managed some of the world's most secure, mission-critical communications and IT networks, such as the ultra-reliable Federal Aviation Administration Telecommunications Infrastructure network. Additionally, the company's technology, countermeasures and monitoring capabilities safeguard vital information systems that support the critical missions of military, intelligence, and federal law enforcement customers.
"There is a large and growing market for cyber security and cloud-enabled solutions, and Harris is committed to continuing to be a significant player in this area," said William M. Brown, president and chief executive officer. "These actions allow us to refocus our capital and efforts on the secure, cost-effective communications and IT solutions that our customers are demanding."
The company expects to incur an after-tax charge of $70 million to $80 million during fiscal 2012 as a result of these actions.
About Harris Corporation
Harris is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 150 countries. Headquartered in Melbourne, Florida, the company has approximately $6 billion of annual revenue and about 17,000 employees  including nearly 7,000 engineers and scientists. Harris is dedicated to developing best-in-class products, systems, and services. Additional information about Harris Corporation is available at .
assured communications
www.harris.com
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations, assumptions and estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Such statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results and future trends to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. Statements about the company's expectation or amounts or timing of estimated charges associated with the plan for discontinuing the company's Cyber Integrated Solutions operation and the related exit and disposal activities are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties. Other factors that may impact the company's results and forward-looking statements may be disclosed in the company's filings with the SEC. Harris disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Note: In connection with the approved plan to exit the cyber integrated solutions operation, the Company expects to incur total estimated pre-tax charges of $113 million to $129 million ($70 million to $80 million after-tax or $0.61 to $0.70 per diluted share).

Exhibit 99.3
 
  The Board of Directors of Harris Corporation (NYSE:HRS), an international communications and information technology company, has increased the quarterly cash dividend from 28 cents per share to 33 cents per share and declared a quarterly cash dividend of 33 cents per share, payable March 16, 2012, to shareholders of record March 7, 2012. The annualized cash dividend will increase from $1.12 per share to $1.32 per share.
MELBOURNE, Florida, February 27, 2012
"Increasing the dividend by 18 percent and the target payout ratio from 20 to 25 percent reflects our company's financial strength and continuing ability to generate strong cash flow," said William M. Brown, president and chief executive officer. "This increase in our dividend also demonstrates our commitment to rewarding shareholders."
About Harris Corporation
Harris is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 150 countries. Headquartered in Melbourne, Florida, the company has approximately $6 billion of annual revenue and about 17,000 employees  including nearly 7,000 engineers and scientists. Harris is dedicated to developing best-in-class products, systems, and services. Additional information about Harris Corporation is available at www.harris.com.
assured communications
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations, assumptions and estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Such statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results and future trends to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. Statements about the company's financial strength, ability to generate strong cash flow, payout ratio and outlook are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties. Other factors that may impact the company's results and forward-looking statements may be disclosed in the company's filings with the SEC. Harris disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Investor Relations inquiries: Pamela Padgett at 321-727-9383, or pamela.padgett@harris.com
Media inquiries: Jim Burke at 321-727-9131, or jim.burke@harris.com
 
 
 
 


