FILE:HRS/HRS-8K-20121206160832.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
The information contained in this Current Report on
Form 8-K
that is furnished under this Item 7.01, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section. The information contained in this Current Report on
Form 8-K
that is furnished under this Item 7.01, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On December 6, 2012, Harris Corporation ("Harris") issued a press release announcing the signing of an agreement to sell Harris' Broadcast Communications Division ("Broadcast Communications") to an affiliate of The Gores Group, LLC for $225 million, which includes $160 million in cash at closing, a $15 million subordinated promissory note and an earnout of up to $50 million based on future performance.  A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.  The subordinated promissory note is payable fifteen months after closing, accrues simple annual interest at six percent and is unsecured.  The earnout terms provide that in each of the four calendar years of 2013 through 2016, Harris is entitled to receive a contingent payment in cash equal to twenty percent of the revenue of Broadcast Communications in such calendar year that exceeds a specified target revenue amount (with such target revenue amount subject to reduction for any divestitures of a business, business unit, product line or substantial portion of the consolidated assets of Broadcast Communications).  The contingent payment amount is subject to (i) an annual cap of $25 million in each of such calendar years (with any revenue that would have caused the contingent payment in any such year to exceed such annual cap to be carried forward and credited as revenue in the next year) and (ii) an aggregate cap of $50 million over all four such calendar years.
  
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
 Harris Corporation (NYSE:HRS) has reached an agreement to sell Broadcast Communications to an affiliate of The Gores Group, LLC for $225 million. The price includes $160 million in cash at closing, a $15 million subordinated promissory note and an earnout of up to $50 million based on future performance. The transaction is subject to customary regulatory review and closing conditions and is expected to be completed in early calendar year 2013. On May 1, 2012, Harris announced plans to divest Broadcast Communications.
MELBOURNE, Florida, December 6, 2012
"The sale of Broadcast Communications reflects our strategy to optimize our business portfolio and focus on our core businesses," said William M. Brown, president and chief executive officer of Harris. "As previously communicated, we plan to repurchase up to $200 million of our shares after the deal closes. This is in addition to the $200 million of share repurchases already planned for fiscal 2013 and reflects our ongoing commitment to effectively deploy capital, including returning cash to shareholders."
"In Harris Broadcast Communications, we are investing in a proven technology leader with great products and a great team. We are excited to provide the capital and support to transition this division to a strong and independent company further enabling it to continue developing and delivering market leading technologies to its customers," said Ryan Wald, Managing Director of The Gores Group.
The Gores Group, LLC is a global investment firm focused on acquiring controlling interests in mature and growing businesses which can benefit from the firm's operating experience and flexible capital base. The firm combines the operational expertise and detailed due diligence capabilities of a strategic buyer with the seasoned M&A team of a traditional financial buyer. The Gores Group, which was founded in 1987 by Alec E. Gores, has become a leading investor having demonstrated over time a reliable track record of creating substantial value in its portfolio companies alongside management. Headquartered in Los Angeles, The Gores Group maintains offices in Boulder, CO, and London. For more information, please visit .
About The Gores Group
www.gores.com
Harris is an international communications and information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 125 countries. Headquartered in Melbourne, Florida, the company has approximately $5.5 billion of annual revenue and about 15,000 employees  including 6,000 engineers and scientists. Harris is dedicated to developing best-in-class  products, systems, and services. Additional information about Harris Corporation is available at .
About Harris Corporation
assured communications
harris.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations, assumptions, and estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Such statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements in this release include but are not limited to anticipated satisfaction of the conditions to closing of the divestiture of Broadcast Communications, the anticipated timing of the closing of the divestiture of Broadcast Communications and potential repurchases of additional shares of common stock by the Company. The Company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results and future trends to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. The Company's consolidated results and the forward-looking statements could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to: delays in the closing of the transaction or anticipated satisfaction of closing conditions. In addition, the timing and amounts of share repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable security laws, and other factors, are at the discretion of the Company, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Further information relating to factors that may impact the Company's results and forward-looking statements are disclosed in the Company's filings with the SEC. The forward-looking statements contained in this release are made as of the date of this release, and the Company disclaims any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Pamela Padgett at 321-727-9383, or Jim Burke at 321-727-9131/ or Frank Stefanik at 310-209-3010
Investor Relations inquiries:
pamela.padgett@harris.com
Media inquiries:
jim.burke@harris.com


