FILE:DV/DV-8K-20080923150645.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 -  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 -  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 -  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 -  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01.  Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On September 18, 2008, DeVry Inc. (the Company) completed the acquisition of U.S. Education Corporation (USEC) from William Blair Capital Partners VII QP, L.P., ClearLight Partners, LLC and the other stockholders and optionholders of USEC.  Pursuant to the transaction, the Company purchased approximately 99% of the common stock and all of the preferred stock of USEC directly from the stockholders and acquired the remaining shares of USEC that were held by a minority stockholder through a short-form merger under the Delaware General Corporation Law.   USEC's operating subsidiaries Apollo College and Western Career College prepare students for careers in health care through certificate and associate degree programs in such fields as nursing, biotechnology, medical and dental assisting, dental hygiene, respiratory therapy, pharmacy tech, lab tech, physical therapy tech and vet tech.  Apollo and Western are headquartered in Mission Viejo, California.
The purchase price was $290 million in cash, paid at closing and subject to post-closing adjustment for working capital and other items.  The Company financed the transaction through a combination of cash of approximately $124 million, utilizing approximately $120 million of the Companys existing credit facility and borrowing approximately $46 million against its outstanding auction rate securities.
The Company will file by amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") the financial statements and pro forma financial information required to be filed pursuant to Item 9.01(a) and 9.01(b) of Current Report on Form 8-K not later than 71 days after the date that this Current Report on Form 8-K was required to be filed with the SEC.
Item 2.03.  Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
In connection with the completion of the acquisition of USEC, on September 18, 2008, the Company borrowed approximately $120 million under its Credit Agreement, dated as of May 16, 2003, as amended, between the Company and Global Education International, Inc., an international subsidiary of the Company, as borrowers, and certain financial institutions and Bank of America, N.A., as lenders.  The details of this Credit Agreement are more fully described in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, which description is contained in Item 7 (pages 58-59) and in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (pages 81-82) , and is incorporated herein by this reference.
Also in connection with the completion of the acquisition of USEC, on September 18, 2008, the Company borrowed approximately $46 million against its outstanding auction rate securities under a temporary, uncommitted, demand revolving line of credit facility between the Company and UBS Bank USA (the Lender).  Pursuant to this credit facility the Company has the option to borrow up to 80% of the fair market value of its auction rate securities portfolio held through the Companys broker, UBS, not to exceed $46 million. The fair market value of this auction rate securities portfolio was approximately $57.8 million as of August 31, 2008.
Under this lending agreement, the Lender may demand payment at any time and for any reason.  In addition, the credit facility may be terminated at the Lenders discretion, on such date as the auction rate securities portfolio may be liquidated in such amounts and at such a price as the Lender may determine to be acceptable.
Under this lending agreement, interest will be charged monthly at a rate equal to 30-day LIBOR, adjusted daily, plus a spread which is initially set at 50 basis points.  No interest payments are required as long as the minimum equity ratio is maintained in the collateral accounts and outstanding loan balances do not exceed the approved credit limit.  Any proceeds from the liquidation, redemption, sale or other disposition of all or part of the auction rate securities and all interest, dividends and other income payments received from the auction rate securities will be transferred automatically to the Lender as payments under the lending agreement.
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
A copy of the Companys press release announcing the completion of the acquisition is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report and is incorporated by reference into this item.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
                                                                                                                                          Investor Contact:
                                                                                                                                          Joan Bates
jbates@devry.com
(630) 574-1949
                                                                                                                                          Media Contact:
Michelle Yokoyama
myokoyama@sardverb.com
(312) 895-4701
 DeVry Inc. (NYSE:DV), a global provider of educational services, announced today that it has completed its acquisition of U.S. Education, the parent organization of Apollo College and Western Career College, for $290 million in cash.
OAKBROOK TERRACE, Ill.  September 18, 2008
We are pleased to welcome U.S. Education to DeVry Inc. and to continue to grow our healthcare curriculum, Daniel Hamburger, DeVry Inc. president and CEO, said about the acquisition. The addition of Apollo College and Western Career College provides us with a strong platform to help prepare more high-qualified healthcare professionals to satisfy the robust demand in this industry.
Apollo College and Western Career College prepare students for careers in healthcare through certificate and associate degree programs in such rapidly growing fields as nursing, ultrasound and radiography technology, surgical technology, veterinary technology, pharmacy technology, dental hygiene, and medical and dental assisting. The two colleges operate 17 campus locations in the western United States and currently serve more than 8,700 students and have more than 65,000 alumni.
Apollo College and Western Career College join Ross Universitys medical and veterinary schoolsand Chamberlain College of Nursing as part of DeVrys Medical and Healthcare segment.
 
 
 
 
DeVry Inc. Completes Acquisition of U.S. Education
       Page 2
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
Terms of the Transaction
Under the terms of the agreement, DeVry purchased U.S. Education for $290 million in cash, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. DeVry has financed the acquisition utilizing approximately $124 million of internal cash resources, $120 million of debt from its existing credit facilities and approximately $46 million of debt secured by its auction rate securities.
As a further enhancement to DeVrys financing package, it has arranged uncommitted lines of credit with Bank of America, N.A. and The Northern Trust Company, each in the amount of $15 million, providing an additional $30 million in short-term liquidity for future working capital needs.
About DeVry Inc.
DeVry Inc. (NYSE: DV) is the parent organization of DeVry University, Advanced Academics, Ross University, Chamberlain College of Nursing, U.S. Education and Becker Professional Review. DeVry University, which includes Keller Graduate School of Management, offers associate, bachelor's and master's degree programs in technology, healthcare technology, business and management. Advanced Academics provides online secondary education to school districts throughout the U.S. Ross University offers doctoral degree programs through its schools of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine. Chamberlain College of Nursing offers associate and bachelor's degree programs in nursing. U.S. Educations programs, offered through Apollo College and Western Career College, prepare students for careers in healthcare through certificate and associate degree programs. Becker Professional Review, which includes Becker
CPA Review and Stalla Review for the CFA Exams, provides professional education and exam review for accounting and finance professionals. For more information, visit http://www.devryinc.com.
Certain statements contained in this release concerning DeVry's future performance, including those statements concerning DeVry's expectations or plans, may constitute forward-looking statements subject to the Safe Harbor Provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as DeVry Inc. or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import. Actual results may differ materially from those projected or implied by these forward-looking statements. Potential risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ are described more fully in Item 1A, "Risk Factors," in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending June 30, 2008 and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 27, 2008.
 
 
 


