FILE:DV/DV-8K-20080728133942.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 28, 2008, Ross University, a divisionDeVry Inc. issued a press release announcing it will open a branch campus in Freeport, Grand Bahama, in January 2009. The full text of that press release is included in Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K. The new location will accommodate the growing demand from new students who wish to attend Ross University, which has a medical school campus in Dominica and a veterinary school campus in St. Kitts.
 
The Ross University Freeport campus will initially accommodate students in the Universitys growing medical school. The students will be housed and taught in temporary space in Grand Bahama with Rosss brand new 60,000-80,000 square foot campus scheduled to open in 2010. The Ross Dominica campus will continue to maintain its location as the medical schools primary campus. All students in the medical school will begin their training in Dominica, with a portion of third and forth semester students transferring to Freeport.
 
Forward Looking Statements
 
 
This Form 8-K and the related press release contain forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than those that are purely historical are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, anticipate, believe, estimate, intend, plan, and similar expressions also identify forward-looking statements.
 
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied by these forward-looking statements.  Additional information regarding factors that could cause results to differ can be found in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007.
 
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of July 28, 2008, and the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
              Exhibit 99.1
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
          Ross University 
   
Administrative Offices
                       630 US Highway 1
School of
   
                     Medicine 
   
North Brunswick, NJ 08902
                               and 
   
Phone 732-509-4600/ 888-404-7677
Veterinary Medicine 
   
www.RossU.edu
 
 
 
        
DeVry Inc. Contact:
Joan Bates
P: 630-574-1949
Email:
 
jbates@devry.com
July 28, 2008  (North Brunswick, N.J.)  Ross University, a division of DeVry Inc. (NYSE:DV), announced it will open a branch campus in Freeport, Grand Bahama, in January 2009. The new location will accommodate the growing demand from new students who wish to attend Ross University, which has a medical school campus in Dominica and a veterinary school campus in St. Kitts.
The Ross University Freeport campus will initially accommodate students in the Universitys growing medical school. The students will be housed and taught in temporary space in Grand Bahama with Rosss brand new 60,000-80,000 square foot campus scheduled to open in 2010. The Ross Dominica campus will continue to maintain its location as the medical schools primary campus. All students in the medical school will begin their training in Dominica, with a portion of third and forth semester students transferring to Freeport.
The demand we have been experiencing from new students has made expansion inevitable and the Bahamas was a natural location to accommodate this continued growth, said Dr. Thomas Shepherd, president of Ross University. Our new branch campus will serve as an ideal complement to our existing facilities in Dominica and represents the next step in our evolution as one of the worlds premier providers of medical and health sciences education.
The Ross University Freeport campus, located 52 miles from Fort Lauderdale, will grow to accommodate the future expansion needs of Ross Universitys medical program, as well as potentially adding other degree programs. The new campus will initially have 18 - 25 faculty members, and will be equipped for further growth as demand increases. Depending upon the pace of development, capital expenditures related to opening the branch campus, including land and buildings, is expected to be in the range of $35-$60 million over the next 5 years.
 
 
 
Ross University to Open Branch Campus
Page 2
In Dominica, we have one of the worlds most technologically advanced teaching facilities, not to mention some of the best and most capable students in medicine, said Dr. Shepherd. We look forward to building on the foundation of excellence that continues to flourish there with an equally sophisticated and stimulating campus and curriculum in Freeport.
About Ross University
Ross University was founded in 1978 and is a provider of medical and veterinary education offering doctor of medicine and doctor of veterinary medicine degree programs. The School of Medicine is located in Dominica, West Indies, with a branch campus scheduled to open in Freeport, Grand Bahama in January 2009. The School of Veterinary Medicine is located in St. Kitts.
 
Ross University is a division of DeVry Inc. (NYSE:DV). Ross University's administrative services including enrollment, registrar and financial aid services are located in North Brunswick, New Jersey. For more information about Ross University, visit
www.RossU.edu
.
 
 
About DeVry Inc.
 
DeVry Inc. (NYSE:  DV) is the parent organization of DeVry University, Advanced Academics, Ross University, Chamberlain College of Nursing and Becker Professional Review.  DeVry University, which includes Keller Graduate School of Management, offers associate, bachelor's and master's degree programs in technology, healthcare technology, business and management.  Advanced Academics provides online secondary education to school districts throughout the U.S. Ross University offers doctoral degree programs through its schools of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine. Chamberlain College of Nursing offers associate and bachelor's degree programs in nursing.  Becker Professional Review, which includes Becker CPA Review and Stalla Review for the CFA Exams, provides professional education and exam review for accounting and finance professionals.  For more information, visit .
http://www.devryinc.com
 
 


