FILE:DV/DV-8K-20080304101318.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report
(Date of earliest event reported)
March 4, 2008
DEVRY INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(630) 571-7700
(
Registrants telephone number, including area code)
N/A
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
    
Item 8.01
Other Events
On March 4, 2008, DeVry Inc. issued a press release announcing the sale and leaseback of its Houston, Texas facility. The full text of that press release is included in Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K.
Forward Looking Statements
This Form 8-K and the related press release contain forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than those that are purely historical are forward-looking statements. Words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "intend," "plan," and similar expressions also identify forward-looking statements.
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied by these forward-looking statements. Additional information regarding factors that could cause results to differ can be found in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of March 4, 2008, and the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
    
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
DeVry Announces Sale and Leaseback of Houston Facility
Continues to rebalance capacity
OAKBROOK TERRACE, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--DeVry Inc. (NYSE: DV), a global provider of educational services, announced today that it has completed a sale-leaseback transaction at its Houston, Texas, facility. This is part of DeVry Universitys ongoing strategy of rebalancing capacity.
On February 29, 2008, DeVry University completed the sale of its 98,000 square foot Houston campus for approximately $14.5 million. DeVry will leaseback approximately 60 percent of the original space, thereby reducing facility operating expenses, but go-forward lease costs will exceed prior depreciation expense. In addition, an accounting gain from the sale of the facility of $2.2 million will be recognized ratably over the 12-year lease period. Overall, net income should improve by approximately $200 thousand per year as a result of the transaction.
This is another example of how DeVry University is unlocking economic value while working to meet student demand in each of the markets we serve, said Daniel Hamburger, president and chief executive officer, DeVry Inc. While in some locations we are reducing our square footage, we are also adding new locations in order to reach more students.
About DeVry Inc.
DeVry Inc. (NYSE: DV) is the parent organization of DeVry University, Advanced Academics, Ross University, Chamberlain College of Nursing and Becker Professional Review. DeVry University, which includes Keller Graduate School of Management, offers associate, bachelor's and master's degree programs in technology, healthcare technology, business and management. Advanced Academics provides online secondary education to school districts throughout the U.S. Ross University offers doctoral degree programs through its schools of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine. Chamberlain College of Nursing offers associate and bachelor's degree programs in nursing. Becker Professional Review, which includes Becker CPA Review and Stalla Review for the CFA Exams, provides professional education and exam review for accounting and finance professionals. For more information, visit http://www.devryinc.com.
Certain statements contained in this release concerning DeVry's future performance, including those statements concerning DeVry's expectations or plans, may constitute forward-looking statements subject to the Safe Harbor Provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as DeVry Inc. or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import. Actual results may differ materially from those projected or implied by these forward-looking statements. Potential risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ are described more fully in Item 1A, "Risk Factors," in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending June 30, 2007 and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 24, 2007.
CONTACT: DeVry Inc. Investor Contact: Joan Bates 630-574-1949 jbates@devry.com or Media Contact: David Gutierrez 312-780-7204 dgutierrez@dresnerco.com


