FILE:DV/DV-8K-20081113144611.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 13, 2008, DeVry Inc. issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors had declared a semi-annual dividend on the Companys common stock of $0.08 per share, payable on January 9, 2009, to common stockholders of record as of December 12, 2008. The policy of the Board of Directors is that any payment of dividends will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will be dependent on the earnings and financial requirements of the Company and other factors as the board of directors deems relevant.  A copy of the Companys press release announcing the dividend is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report and is incorporated by reference into this item.
 
Forward Looking Statements
 
Certain statements contained in this Form 8-K and related press release, including those that affect DeVrys expectations or plans, may constitute forward-looking statements subject to the Safe Harbor Provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as DeVry Inc. or its management anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, forecasts, foresees, intends, plans or other words or phrases of similar import.
 
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied by these forward-looking statements.  Additional information regarding factors that could cause results to differ can be found in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.
 
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of November 13, 2008, and the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
   
 
Exhibit 99.1
                                                                                                
News Release
Investor Contact:
Joan Bates
jbates@devry.com
(630) 574-1949
Media Contact:
Larry Larsen
llarsen@sardverb.com
(312) 895-4717
 
 DeVry Inc. (NYSE:DV), a global provider of education services, announced today at its annual meeting of shareholders that its board of directors approved a 33 percent dividend increase, raising its dividend from $0.12 to $0.16 per share annually.  Payable on a semi-annual basis, the next dividend payment of $0.08 will be made on January 9, 2009, to common stockholders of record as of December 12, 2009.  This announcement follows a 20 percent increase of the semi-annual dividend from $0.05 to $0.06 per share announced at last years annual meeting of shareholders on November 7, 2007.
OAKBROOK TERRACE, Ill.  November 13, 2008
 
 
"This increase reflects the company's continued solid financial results, liquidity and long-term growth potential," said Daniel Hamburger, president and CEO of DeVry Inc.  We remain committed to maximizing shareholder value through our focus on academic quality and the continued execution of our strategic growth plan.
 
 
 
About DeVry Inc.
DeVry Inc. (NYSE: DV) is the parent organization of DeVry University, Advanced Academics, Ross University, Chamberlain College of Nursing, U.S. Education and Becker Professional Review.  DeVry University, which includes Keller Graduate School of Management, offers associate, bachelor's and master's degree programs in technology, healthcare technology, business and management.  Advanced Academics provides online secondary education to school districts throughout the U.S. Ross University offers doctoral degree programs through its schools of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine. Chamberlain College of Nursing offers associate and bachelor's degree programs in nursing.  U.S. Education's programs, offered through Apollo College and Western Career College, prepare students for careers in healthcare through certificate and associate degree programs.  Becker Professional Review, which includes Becker CPA Review and Stalla Review for the CFA Exams, provides professional education and exam review for accounting and finance professionals. For more information, visit .
http://www.devryinc.com
 
 
 
DeVry Inc. Announces 33 Percent Increase in Dividend
Page 2
Certain statements contained in this release concerning DeVry's future performance, including those statements concerning DeVry's expectations or plans, may constitute forward-looking statements subject to the Safe Harbor Provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as DeVry Inc. or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import.  Actual results may differ materially from those projected or implied by these forward-looking statements.  Potential risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ are described more fully in Item 1A, "Risk Factors," in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending June 30, 2008 and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 27, 2008.
 
 
 


