FILE:DV/DV-8K-20090915154506.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
______________
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report
(Date of earliest event reported)
September 9, 2009
______________
DEVRY INC
.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
______________
(630) 571-7700
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
______________
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.01.          Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
The information set forth in Item 5.02 below is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02.          Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(c)       On September 9, 2009, the Board of Directors of DeVry Inc. (the Company) appointed William Hughson (Hughson), age 46, to the position of president of the Companys Medical and Healthcare group.  In this capacity, Hughson will serve as a principal operating officer of the Company.  Prior to joining the Company, Hughson had served since 2000 as Vice President of DaVita Inc., a leading provider of dialysis services in the United States.  From 1997 to 1999, he served as President of A.G. Ferrari Foods.  From 1992 to 1996 Hughson was president and chief financial officer of Noahs New York Bagels.
Effective as of September 9, 2009, the Company entered into an Executive Employment Agreement (the Employment Agreement) with Hughson.  The Employment Agreement provides for, among other things, the following:
(i)       Hughsons current base salary may be increased annually by the Companys Chief Executive Officer in coordination with the Compensation Committee of the Companys Board of Directors (the Compensation Committee) but may not be decreased, except in the case of an across-the-board percentage reduction in base salaries.
(ii)      Hughson will be eligible for annual equity awards, as determined by the Company, the Board of Directors and/or the Compensation Committee, under the Companys equity award plans.
(iii)     Hughson will be eligible to receive an annual bonus payment based on a percentage of his base salary upon the achievement of specific Company-wide and personal performance goals that will be determined each fiscal year by Hughsons direct supervisor and/or the Compensation Committee.
(iv)      Hughson will be eligible to participate in the health and welfare benefit plans and any qualified and/or non-qualified retirement plans of the Company.
(v)       Hughsons employment with the Company will end upon the earlier of (A) his death or Permanent Disability (as defined in the Employment Agreement), (B) Hughsons resignation at any time with or without Good Reason (as defined in the Employment Agreement) or (C) termination by the Company at any time with or without Cause (as defined in the Employment Agreement).
(vi)      If (A) Hughsons employment with the Company is terminated by the Company without Cause or by Hughson with Good Reason and (B) Hughson executes a legally effective Release (as defined in the Employment Agreement) and complies with the terms of the Employment Agreement and the Release, Hughson will be entitled to the following benefits:
(A)    Accrued Benefits (as defined in the Employment Agreement), payable no later than 30 days after Hughsons Termination Date (as defined in the Employment Agreement);
(B)    one and one-half times the sum of Hughsons Base Salary plus MIP Target (as defined in the Employment Agreement), payable in 18 equal monthly payments;
(C)    a pro-rated MIP Award (as defined in the Employment Agreement);
(D)    18 months of continued health benefit plan coverage following the Termination Date; and
(E)     access to a nine month senior executive level outplacement program at the Companys sole expense.
(vii)     If (A) Hughsons employment with the Company is terminated by the Company without Cause or by Hughson with Good Reason during a Change in Control Period (as defined in the Employment Agreement) and (B) Hughson executes a legally effective Release (as defined in the Employment Agreement) and complies with the terms of the Employment Agreement and Release, he will be entitled to the following benefits:
(A)    Accrued Benefits, payable no later than 30 days after the Termination Date;
(B)    two times the sum of Hughsons Base Salary plus MIP Target, payable in 24 equal monthly payments;
(C)       24 months of continued health benefit plan coverage following the Termination Date; and
(D)       access to a 12 month senior executive level outplacement program at the Companys sole expense.
(viii)    If Hughsons employment is terminated during a Change in Control Period (A) for Cause, (B) by reason of his resignation without Good Reason or (C) by reason of his death or Permanent Disability, the Company shall provide him or his estate or beneficiaries, as appropriate, with Accrued Benefits, payable within 30 days following his Termination Date, and the Company shall have no other severance obligations under the Employment Agreement.
(ix)      Hughson is subject to a non-compete and non-solicitation period following the end of his employment of (A) 24 months if termination occurs with Good Reason or without Cause during a Change in Control Period (as defined in the Employment Agreement) or (B) 18 months in the case of any other termination.
This description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Executive Employment Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure.
A copy of the news release issued by the Company on September 15, 2009 describing the appointment of Mr. Hughson is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
10.1      Executive Employment Agreement with William Hughson, dated September 9, 2009
99.1      Press Release, dated September 15, 2009
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 10.1
DEVRY INC.
EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
THIS (this ) is made and entered into as of September 9, 2009 (the ), by and between DeVry Inc. (), and William B. Hughson (the ).  DeVry and the Executive are sometimes hereinafter referred to individually as a  and together as .
EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
Agreement
Effective Date
DeVry
Executive
Party
Parties
Unless otherwise defined in the body of this Agreement, capitalized terms shall be defined as provided in Appendix I to this Agreement.
In consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereto agree as follows:
AGREEMENT
1.  .  DeVry will employ the Executive, and the Executive hereby accepts employment with DeVry, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement.  The Executives employment under this Agreement shall begin on the Effective Date and shall continue thereafter until the first to occur of the events described in Section 8(a) (the ).
Employment Period
Employment Period
2.  .
Position and Duties
(a)  .  During the Employment Period, the Executive will serve as the President, Medical and Healthcare Group and Sr. Vice President, DeVry Inc. and will have the normal duties, responsibilities and authority of that position, subject to the power of the CEO to expand or limit such duties, responsibilities and authority; provided, however, at all times, Executives duties, responsibilities and authority shall be commensurate with such duties, responsibilities and authority held by executives in comparable positions in corporations of similar size and scope to DeVry in DeVrys industry.  The Executive shall report to the CEO or the CEOs designee.  In this trusted, executive position, the Executive will be given access to DeVrys Confidential Information.  The Executive shall comply in all material respects with all applicable laws, rules and regulations relating to the performance of the Executives duties and responsibilities hereunder, including DeVrys Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
Title; Responsibilities
3.  .
Compensation
(a)  .  The Executive shall receive a yearly Base Salary under this Agreement established as of the Effective Date.  The Executives Base Salary will be paid by DeVry in substantially equal bi-monthly installments.  The Base Salary will be reviewed annually by the CEO in coordination with the Compensation Committee and upon such review the Base Salary may be increased by the CEO in coordination with the Compensation Committee (but subject to any applicable DeVry policy, law, or exchange listing requirement); the Base Salary under this Agreement, including as subsequently adjusted upwards, may not be decreased thereafter except in the case of an across-the-board percentage reduction in base salaries of executives at the Executives level affecting such executives equally.  All amounts payable to the Executive under this Agreement will be subject to all required withholding by DeVry.
Base Salary
provided, however,
1
(b)  .  In addition to the Base Salary, the Executive shall be eligible for annual equity awards, as determined by DeVry, the Board and/or Compensation Committee as necessary and appropriate to comply with DeVry policy, applicable law, or exchange listing requirements, under DeVrys equity award plan(s) covering executives at the Executives level, as in effect from time to time.
Equity Awards
4.  .  In addition to the Base Salary, the Executive will be eligible to receive an annual MIP Target payment under DeVrys annual Management Incentive Plan, as in effect from time to time, upon the achievement of specific DeVry-wide and personal performance goals that will be determined each fiscal year by the Executives direct supervisor and/or the Compensation Committee as necessary and appropriate to comply with DeVry policy; provided, however, the MIP Award may be based on a higher or lower percentage of the MIP Target for performance which is in excess of target goals or below target goals, respectively.  Any MIP Award due and owing hereunder with respect to any fiscal year shall be paid no later than the fifteenth day of the third month following the end of DeVrys fiscal year in which the MIP Award was earned.
Management Incentive
5.  .  The Executive will be entitled to the number of weeks of vacation each fiscal year equal to that of other executives at the Executives level.
Vacation
6.  .
Benefits
(a)  .  In addition to the Base Salary and other compensation provided for in Section 3 and Section 4 above, the Executive shall be eligible to participate in such health and welfare benefit plans (including Executives eligible dependents) and any qualified and/or non-qualified retirement plans of DeVry as may be in effect from time to time;provided, however, that participation shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions of such plans, including, without limitation, all waiting periods, eligibility requirements, vesting, contributions, exclusions and other similar conditions or limitations.   Any and all benefits under any such plans shall also be payable, if applicable, in accordance with the underlying terms and conditions of such plan document.  Executives participation in the foregoing plans and any perquisite programs will be on terms no less favorable than afforded to executives at the Executives level, as in effect from time to time.  DeVry, however, shall have the right in its sole discretion to modify, amend or terminate such benefit plans and/or perquisite programs at any time.  DeVry will reimburse the Executive for all reasonable business expenses incurred by Executive in the course of performing Executives duties and responsibilities under this Agreement which are consistent with DeVrys policies and procedures in effect from time to time.
Other Benefit Plans and Programs
7.  .  In accordance with the DeVry Inc. Executive Relocation Policy as in effect July 1, 2009, attached hereto as Exhibit B.
Relocation Expenses
8.  .
Termination
(a)  .  The Executives employment with DeVry and the Employment Period will end on the earlier of (i) the Executives death or Permanent Disability,(ii) the Executives resignation at any time with or without Good Reason, or (iii) termination by DeVry at any time with or without Cause.  Except as otherwise provided herein, any termination of the Employment Period by DeVry or by the Executive will be effective as specified in a written notice from the terminating Party to the other Party; provided, however, if the Executives employment with DeVry is terminated during the Employment Period by DeVry without Cause or by the Executive without Good Reason, the terminating Party must give the other Party at least thirty (30) days prior written notice.  For avoidance of doubt, Executives voluntary retirement from DeVry shall be deemed a resignation by Executive without Good Reason.
When Does Termination Occur
2
(b)  If the Employment Period is terminated pursuant to Section 8(a)(i) above, then, through the date of termination of Executives employment with DeVry, the Executive will be entitled to the Accrued Benefits payable no later than thirty (30) days following Executives Termination Date.  Except as set forth in this paragraph (b), the Executive will not be entitled to any other Base Salary, severance, compensation or benefits from DeVry thereafter, other than those previously earned under any of DeVrys retirement plans or expressly required under applicable law.
Termination Due to Death or Permanent Disability
.  
(c)  .  If the Employment Period is terminated by DeVrywith Cause or if the Executive resigns without Good Reason, then the Executive will only be entitled to receive the Accrued Benefits payable no later than thirty (30) days following Executives Termination Date.  Except as set forth in this paragraph (c), the Executive will not be entitled to any other Base Salary, severance, compensation or benefits from DeVry thereafter, other than those previously earned under any of DeVrys retirement plans or expressly required under applicable law.  Within ten (10) days following notice of termination with Cause, the Executive may request of the CEO an opportunity to cure the Cause event, which request shall be determined by the CEO in the CEOs sole discretion.
Termination by DeVry With Cause or By the Executive Without Good Reason
(d)  .  If:
Termination by DeVry Without Cause or By the Executive With Good Reason
(i)  the Executives employment with DeVry is terminated during the Employment Period (A) by DeVry without Cause or (B) by the Executive with Good Reason; and
(ii)  the Executive executes a Release and such Release is not timely revoked by Executive and becomes legally effective; and
(iii)  the Executive complies with the terms of this Agreement and the Release,
then the Executive will be entitled to receive:
(A)  .  the Accrued Benefits payable no later than thirty (30) days following Executives Termination Date;
Accrued Benefits
(B)  .  payment of an amount equal to one and one-half (1-1/2) times the sum of Executives Base Salary (at the rate then in effect) plus MIP Target, which shall be payable in eighteen (18) equal monthly payments commencing with the first payroll period following the date the Release becomes legally effective; and
Base Salary and MIP Award
3
(C)  .  the following :
Other Benefits
Additional Benefits
(I)  .  Provided that Executive has been employed for not less than six (6) months during the fiscal year during which Executives Termination Date occurs, payment of a pro-rated MIP Award pursuant to Section 4 (based on the number of days in the fiscal year which have passed divided by 365) based upon accomplishment of the relevant performance targets for the relevant fiscal year which includes the Executives Termination Date, which MIP Award shall be payable in a lump sum payment at the time all other MIP Awards for such fiscal year are paid to the other DeVry senior executives;
Pro-Rated MIP Award
(II)  .  Eighteen (18) months of continued health benefit plan coverage following the Termination Date at active employee levels and active employee cost for Executive and Executives eligible dependents; such health benefits shall be provided and paid for by DeVry commencing with the first payroll period following the Executives termination of employment and continuing until the earlier of (1) the eighteen (18) month anniversary of Executives Termination Date, or (2) the date Executive is eligible for equivalent coverage and benefits under the plans and programs of a subsequent employer.  Medical expenses (as defined in Code Section 213(d)) paid pursuant to this paragraph are intended to be exempt from Code Section 409A to the extent permitted under Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(b)(9)(v)(B) and -3(i)(1)(iv)(B).  However, to the extent any health benefits provided pursuant to this paragraph do not qualify for exemption under Code Section 409A, DeVry shall provide Executive with a lump sum payment in an amount equal to the number of months of coverage to which Executive is entitled times the then applicable premium for the relevant health plan in which Executive participated.  Such lump sum amount will be paid during the second month following the month in which such coverage expires; and
Health Continuation
(III)  .  DeVry shall, at its sole expense, provide the Executive with a nine (9) month senior executive level outplacement program the provider of which shall be selected by DeVry in DeVrys sole discretion with such expenses being payable to the outplacement service as soon as administratively practicable but in no event later that the last day of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which such expense was incurred by the Executive.
Outplacement Services
(e)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (d) immediately above, because DeVry is a public company within the meaning of Code Section 409A, any amounts payable to the Executive during the first six months and one day following the Termination Date pursuant to paragraph (d) immediately above shall be deferred until the date which is six months and one day following such Termination Date, with the first payment being in an amount equal to the total amount to which the Executive would otherwise have been entitled during the period following the Termination Date of employment if the six-month deferral had not been required.  Except as otherwise expressly provided in paragraph (d) immediately above, all of the Executives rights to Base Salary, employee benefits, severance and other compensation hereunder or under any policy or program of DeVry which accrue or become payable on or after the termination of the Employment Period will cease upon such Termination Date other than those expressly required under applicable law.
Specified Employee Six Month Delay Requirement
.  
(f)  .  Except for such monies due and owing DeVry, if Executives employment with DeVry is terminated for any reason, DeVry will have no right of offset, nor will Executive be under any duty or obligation to seek alternative or substitute employment at any time after the effective date of such termination or otherwise mitigate any amounts payable by DeVry to Executive.
No Offset or Mitigation
4
9.  .  
Change in Control
(a)  .  If:
Obligations of DeVry upon Executives Termination with Good Reason or DeVrys Termination of Executive Without Cause During Change in Control Period
(i)  during the Change in Control Period, DeVry terminates the Executives employment without Cause (other than for death or Disability) or the Executive terminates employment for Good Reason, and
(ii)  the Executive executes the Release and such Release is not timely revoked by Executive and becomes legally effective; and
(iii)  the Executive complies with the terms of this Agreement and the Release,
then the Executive will be entitled to receive:
(A)  .  the Accrued Benefits payable no later than thirty (30) days following Executives Termination Date;
Accrued Benefits
(B)  .  payment of an amount equal to two (2) times the sum of Executives Base Salary (at the rate then in effect) plus MIP Target, which shall be payable in twenty-four (24) equal monthly payments commencing with the first payroll period following the date the Release becomes legally effective; and
Base Salary and MIP Award
(C)  .  Additional Benefits as delineated in Section 8(d)(iii)(C) above except that in subsection (II) the reference to eighteen (18) months shall be changed to twenty-four (24) months and in subsection (III) the reference to nine (9) month shall be changed to twelve (12) months.
Other Benefits
(b)  .  If the Executives employment is terminated by reason of the Executives death during the Change in Control Period, DeVry shall provide the Executives estate or beneficiaries with the Accrued Benefits, and shall have no other severance obligations under this Agreement.  The Accrued Benefits shall be paid to the Executives estate or beneficiary, as applicable, within thirty (30) days following the Termination Date.
Obligations of DeVry upon Executives Death
(c)  .  If the Executives employment is terminated by reason of the Executives Permanent Disability during the Change in Control Period, DeVry shall provide the Executive with the Accrued Benefits, and shall have no other severance obligations under this Agreement.  The Accrued Benefits shall be paid to the Executive within thirty (30) days following the Termination Date.  
Obligations of DeVry upon Executives Permanent Disability
(d)  .  If the Executives employment is terminated for Cause during the Change in Control Period or the Executive resigns during the Change in Control Period without Good Reason, DeVry shall provide the Executive with the Accrued Benefits, and shall have no other severance obligations under this Agreement.  In such case, all Accrued Benefits shall be paid to the Executive within thirty (30) days following the Termination Date.
Obligations of DeVry upon Executives Termination Without Good Reason or DeVrys Termination of Executive With Cause During Change in Control Period
5
(e)  .  If a Change in Control occurs and if the Executives employment with DeVry was terminated by DeVry without Cause within six (6) months prior to the date such Change in Control occurred, and if it is reasonably demonstrated by the Executive that such termination of employment (i) was at the request of a third party who had taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change in Control or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or in anticipation of a Change in Control, then Executive shall be deemed to have been involuntarily terminated by DeVry without Cause during the Change in Control Period and shall be eligible to receive the monies and benefits under Section 9(a) rather than Section 8(d) of the Agreement.
Anticipatory Change in Control
10.  .
Confidential Information
(a)  The Executive recognizes and acknowledges that the continued success of DeVry and its Affiliates depends upon the use and protection of a large body of confidential and proprietary information and that the Executive will have access to the entire universe of DeVrys Confidential Information (as defined below in Section 10(b)), as well as certain confidential information of other Persons with which DeVry and its Affiliates do business, and that such information constitutes valuable, special and unique property of DeVry, its Affiliates and such other Persons.
(b)  .  For purposes of this Agreement, DeVrys  shall include DeVry and its Affiliates trade secrets as defined under Delaware law, as well as any other information or material which is not generally known to the public, and which:  (a) is generated, collected by or utilized in the operations of DeVry or its Affiliates business and relates to the actual or anticipated business, research or development of DeVry, its Affiliates or DeVry and its Affiliates actual or prospective Customers; or (b) is suggested by or results from any task assigned to the Executive by DeVry or its Affiliates, or work performed by the Executive for or on behalf of DeVry or its Affiliates.  Confidential Information shall not be considered generally known to the public if the Executive or others improperly reveal such information to the public without DeVry or its Affiliates express written consent and/or in violation of an obligation of confidentiality owed to DeVry or its Affiliates.  Confidential Information includes, without limitation, the information, observations and data obtained by the Executive while employed by DeVry concerning the business or affairs of DeVry or its Affiliates, including information concerning acquisition opportunities in or reasonably related to DeVry or its Affiliates business or industry, the identities of and other information (such as databases) relating to the current, former or prospective employees, suppliers and Customers of DeVry or its Affiliates, development, transition and transformation plans, methodologies and methods of doing business, strategic, marketing and expansion plans, financial and business plans, financial data, pricing information, employee lists and telephone numbers, locations of sales representatives, new and existing customer or supplier programs and services, customer terms, customer service and integration processes, requirements and costs of providing service, support and equipment.  
Confidential Information
Confidential Information
6
(c)  The Executive agrees to use DeVrys Confidential Information only as necessary and only in connection with the performance of Executives duties hereunder.  The Executive shall not, without DeVrys prior written permission, directly or indirectly, utilize for any purpose other than for a legitimate business purpose solely on behalf of DeVry or its Affiliates, or directly or indirectly, disclose outside of DeVry or outside of the Affiliates, any of DeVrys Confidential Information, as long as such matters remain Confidential Information.  The restrictions set forth in this paragraph are in addition to and not in lieu of any obligations the Executive may have by law with respect to DeVrys Confidential Information, including any obligations the Executive may owe under any applicable trade secrets statutes or similar state or federal statutes.  This Agreement shall not prevent the Executive from revealing evidence of criminal wrongdoing to law enforcement or prohibit the Executive from divulging DeVrys Confidential Information by order of court or agency of competent jurisdiction.  However, the Executive shall promptly inform DeVry of any such situations and shall take such reasonable steps to prevent disclosure of DeVrys Confidential Information until DeVry or its relevant Affiliates have been informed of such requested disclosure and DeVry has had an opportunity to respond to the court or agency.
(d)  The Executive understands that DeVry and its Affiliates will receive from third parties confidential or proprietary information ("") subject to a duty on DeVry or its Affiliates to maintain the confidentiality of such information and to use it only for certain limited purposes.  During the Employment Period and thereafter, and without in any way limiting the foregoing provisions of this Section 10, the Executive will hold Third Party Information in the strictest confidence and will not disclose to anyone (other than personnel and consultants of DeVry and its Affiliates who need to know such information in connection with their work for DeVry or its Affiliates) or use Third Party Information unless expressly authorized by such third party or by the CEO.
Third Party Information
(e)  During the Employment Period, the Executive will not improperly use or disclose any confidential information or trade secrets, if any, of any former employers or any other person or entity to whom the Executive has an obligation of confidentiality, and will not bring onto the premises of DeVry or its Affiliates any unpublished documents or any property belonging to any former employer or any other person or entity to whom the Executive has an obligation of confidentiality unless consented to in writing by the former employer or such other person or entity.  The Executive will use in the performance of Executives duties only information which is (i) generally known and used by persons with training and experience comparable to the Executive's and which is (x) common knowledge in the industry or (y) otherwise legally in the public domain, (ii) otherwise provided or developed by DeVry or its Affiliates or (iii) in the case of materials, property or information belonging to any former employer or other person or entity to whom the Executive has an obligation of confidentiality, approved for such use in writing by such former employer or other person or entity.
11.  .  The Executive acknowledges and agrees that all notes, records, reports, sketches, plans, unpublished memoranda or other documents, whether in paper, electronic or other form (and all copies thereof), held by the Executive concerning any information relating to the business of DeVry or its Affiliates, whether confidential or not, are the property of DeVry and its Affiliates.  The Executive will immediately deliver to DeVry at the termination or expiration of the Employment Period, or at any other time the CEO may request, all equipment, files, property, memoranda, notes, plans, records, reports, computer tapes, printouts and software and other documents and data (and all electronic, paper or other copies thereof) belonging to DeVry  or its Affiliates which includes, but is not limited to, any materials that contain, embody or relate to the Confidential Information, Work Product or the business of DeVry or its Affiliates, which Executive may then possess or have under Executives control.  The Executive will take any and all actions reasonably deemed necessary or appropriate by DeVry or its Affiliates from time to time in its sole discretion to ensure the continued confidentiality and protection of the Confidential Information.  The Executive will notify DeVry and the appropriate Affiliates promptly and in writing of any circumstances of which the Executive has knowledge relating to any possession or use of any Confidential Information by any Person other than those authorized by the terms of this Agreement.
Return of DeVry Property
7
12.  .  The Executive acknowledges and agrees that all inventions, technology, processes, innovations, ideas, improvements, developments, methods, designs, analyses, trademarks, service marks, and other indicia of origin, writings, audiovisual works, concepts, drawings, reports and all similar, related, or derivative information or works (whether or not patentable or subject to copyright), including but not limited to all resulting patent applications, issued patents, copyrights, copyright applications and registrations, and trademark applications and registrations in and to any of the foregoing, along with the right to practice, employ, exploit, use, develop, reproduce, copy, distribute copies, publish, license, or create works derivative of any of the foregoing, and the right to choose not to do or permit any of the aforementioned actions, which relate to DeVry or Affiliates actual or anticipated Business, research and development or existing or future products or services and which are conceived, developed or made by the Executive while employed by DeVry or an Affiliate (collectively, the "") belong to DeVry.  The Executive further acknowledges and agrees that to the extent relevant, this Agreement constitutes a work for hire agreement under the Copyright Act, and that any copyrightable work () constitutes a work made for hire under the Copyright Act such that DeVry is the copyright owner of the Creation.  To the extent that any portion of the Creation is held not to be a work made for hire under the Copyright Act, the Executive hereby irrevocably assigns to DeVry all right, title and interest in such Creation.  All other rights to any new Work Product and all rights to any existing Work Product are also hereby irrevocably conveyed, assigned and transferred to DeVry pursuant to this Agreement.  The Executive will promptly disclose and deliver such Work Product to DeVry and, at DeVry's expense, perform all actions reasonably requested by DeVry (whether during or after the Employment Period) to establish, confirm and protect such ownership (including, without limitation, the execution of assignments, copyright registrations, consents, licenses, powers of attorney and other instruments).  All Work Product made within six months after termination of the Executive's employment with DeVry will be presumed to have been conceived during the Executive's employment with DeVry, unless the Executive can prove conclusively that it was created after such termination.
Intellectual Property Rights
Work Product
Creation
13.  .
Non-Compete, Non-Solicitation
(a)  In further consideration of the compensation to be paid to the Executive hereunder, the Executive acknowledges that in the course of Executives employment with DeVry, Executive has, and will continue to, become familiar with DeVry's Confidential Information, methods of doing business, business plans and other valuable proprietary information concerning DeVry, its Affiliates, and their customers and suppliers and that Executives services have been and will be of special, unique and extraordinary value to DeVry and its Affiliates.  The Executive agrees that, during the Employment Period and continuing for, as applicable, (i) eighteen (18) months thereafter, regardless of the reason for the termination of Executive's employment other than under Section 9(a) above or (ii) twenty-four (24) months in the event of a termination under Section 9(a) above (the ""), the Executive will not, directly or indirectly, anywhere in the Restricted Area:
Restricted Period
8
(i)  own, manage, operate, or participate in the ownership, management, operation, or control of, or be employed by, any entity which is in competition with the Business of DeVry or its Affiliates in which the Executive would hold a position with responsibilities that are entirely or substantially similar to any position the Executive held during the last twelve (12) months of the Executives employment with DeVry or in which the Executive would have responsibility for and access to confidential information that is similar to or relevant to that which the Executive had access to during the last twelve (12) months of the Executives employment with DeVry; or
(ii)  provide services to any person or entity that engages in any business that is similar to, or competitive with DeVry or its Affiliates Business if doing so would require the Executive to use or disclose DeVrys Confidential Information.
Nothing herein will prohibit the Executive from being a passive owner of not more than one percent (1%) of the outstanding stock of any class of a corporation which is publicly traded, so long as the Executive has no active participation in the business of such corporation.  
(b)  During the Restricted Period, the Executive will not, directly or indirectly, in any manner:  (i) hire or engage, or recruit, solicit or otherwise attempt to employ or retain or enter into any business relationship with, any Person who is or was an employee of or consultant to DeVry or its Affiliates within the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the termination of Executive's employment, (ii) induce or attempt to induce any person who is or was an employee of, or consultant to, DeVry or its Affiliates within the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the termination of Executive's employment, to leave the employ of DeVry or the relevant Affiliates, or in any way interfere with the relationship between DeVry, its Affiliates and any of their employees or consultants, (iii) employ or retain or enter into any business relationship with any person who was an employee of or consultant to DeVry or its Affiliates within the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the termination of Executive's employment, or (iv) recommend the hiring of, or provide a reference for any person who was an employee of or consultant to DeVry or its Affiliates (provided, however that the Executive may hire former employees and consultants to DeVry and its Affiliates after such former employees or consultants have ceased to be employed or otherwise engaged by DeVry or its Affiliates for a period of at least twelve (12) months).
(c)  During the Restricted Period, the Executive will not, directly or indirectly:  (i) call on, solicit or service any Customer with the intent of selling or attempting to sell any service or product similar to, or competitive with, the services or products sold by DeVry or its Affiliates as of the date of the termination of Executive's employment, or (ii) in any way interfere with the relationship between DeVry, its Affiliates and any Customer, supplier, licensee or other business relation (or any prospective Customer, supplier, licensee or other business relationship) of DeVry or its Affiliates (including, without limitation, by making any negative or disparaging statements or communications regarding DeVry, its Affiliates or any of their operations, officers, directors or investors).  This non-solicitation provision applies to those Customers, suppliers, licensees or other business relationships of DeVry with whom the Executive: (1) has had contact or has solicited at any time in the twelve (12) month period of time preceding the termination of the Executive's employment; (2) has supervised the services of any of DeVry's or Affiliates employees who have had any contact with or have solicited at any time during the twelve (12) month period of time preceding the termination of Executive's employment; or (3) has had access to any Confidential Information about such Customers, suppliers, licensees or other business relationships at any time during the twelve (12) month period of time preceding the termination of Executives employment.
9
(d)  The Executive acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in this Section 13 with respect to time, geographical area and scope of activity are reasonable and do not impose a greater restraint than is necessary to protect the goodwill and other legitimate business interests of DeVry and its Affiliates.  In particular, the Executive agrees and acknowledges that DeVry is currently engaging in Business and actively marketing its services and products throughout the Restricted Area, that Executive's duties and responsibilities for DeVry and/or its Affiliates are co-extensive with the entire scope of DeVry's Business, that DeVry has spent significant time and effort developing and protecting the confidentiality of their methods of doing business, technology, customer lists, long term customer relationships and trade secrets and that such methods, technology, customer lists, customer relationships and trade secrets have significant value.  However, if, at the time of enforcement of this Section 13, a court holds that the duration, geographical area or scope of activity restrictions stated herein are unreasonable under circumstances then existing or impose a greater restraint than is necessary to protect the goodwill and other business interests of DeVry and its Affiliates, the Parties agree that the maximum duration, scope or area reasonable under such circumstances will be substituted for the stated duration, scope or area and that the court will be allowed to revise the restrictions contained herein to cover the maximum duration, scope and area permitted by law, in all cases giving effect to the intent of the parties that the restrictions contained herein be given effect to the broadest extent possible.  The existence of any claim or cause of action by the Executive against DeVry, whether predicated on this Agreement or otherwise, will not constitute a defense to the enforcement by DeVry of the provisions of Sections 10, 11, 12 or this Section 13, which Sections will be enforceable notwithstanding the existence of any breach by DeVry.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive will not be prohibited from pursuing such claims or causes of action against DeVry.  The Executive consents to DeVry notifying any future employer of the Executive of the Executive's obligations under Sections 10, 11, 12 and this Section 13 of this Agreement.
(e)  In the event of the breach or a threatened breach by the Executive of any of the provisions of Sections 10, 11, 12 or this Section 13, DeVry, in addition and supplementary to any other rights and remedies existing in its favor, will be entitled to seek specific performance and/or injunctive or other equitable relief (in the form of a temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction and/or permanent injunction) from a court of competent jurisdiction in order to enforce or prevent any violations of the provisions hereof.
(f)  Upon the Executives written request, the CEO may, in the CEOs sole discretion, permit the Executive to engage in certain work or activity that is otherwise prohibited by this Agreement, if and only if the Executive first provides the CEO with written evidence satisfactory to the CEO, including assurances from any new employer of the Executive, that the contribution of Executives knowledge to that work or activity will not cause the Executive to disclose, base judgment upon, or use DeVrys trade secrets or other Confidential Information.  The Executive shall not engage in such work or activity unless and until the Executive receives written consent from the CEO.
(g)  Neither the CEOs consent under Section 13(f) nor DeVrys failure to seek enforcement of any restrictive covenant under this Agreement shall be deemed a consent or waiver by DeVry of any subsequent breach of this Agreement by the Executive and DeVry shall have the right to seek enforcement of this Agreement against the Executive for any breach not specifically consented to in writing by the CEO or DeVry.
10
14.  [RESERVED].
Executives Representations
.
15.    Any provisions which by its nature is intended to survive and continue in full force in accordance with its terms shall continue notwithstanding the termination of the Employment Period.
Survival
.
16.  Any notice provided for in this Agreement will be in writing and will be either personally delivered, sent by reputable overnight courier service, sent by facsimile (with hard copy to follow by regular mail) or mailed by first class mail, return receipt requested, to the recipient at the address below indicated:
Notices
.
or such other address or to the attention of such other person as the recipient Party will have specified by prior written notice to the sending Party.  Any notice under this Agreement will be deemed to have been given when so delivered, sent or mailed.
17.    Whenever possible, each provision of this Agreement will be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect under any applicable law or rule in any jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability will not affect any other provision or any action in any other jurisdiction, but this Agreement will be reformed, construed and enforced in such jurisdiction as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein.
Severability
.
11
18.    This Agreement, along with the offer letter (Exhibit A) and attachments (Exhibits B and C) from DeVry Inc. dated July 9, 2009, embodies the complete agreement and understanding among the Parties and supersedes and preempts any prior understandings, agreements or representations by or among the Parties, written or oral, which may have related to the subject matter hereof in any way.  
Complete Agreement
.
19.  This Agreement may be executed in separate counterparts (including by facsimile signature pages), each of which is deemed to be an original and all of which taken together constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
.
20.    The parties hereto jointly participated in the negotiation and drafting of this Agreement.  The language used in this Agreement will be deemed to be the language chosen by the parties hereto to express their collective mutual intent, this Agreement will be construed as if drafted jointly by the parties hereto, and no rule of strict construction will be applied against any Person.
No Strict Construction
.
21.    This Agreement is intended to bind and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive, DeVry and their respective heirs, successors and assigns.  The Executive may not assign Executives rights or delegate Executives duties or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of DeVry.  DeVry may not assign its rights and obligations hereunder, without the consent of, or notice to, the Executive, with the sole exception being a sale to any Person that acquires all or substantially all of DeVry whether stock or assets, in which case such consent of the Executive is not necessary.
Successors and Assigns
.
22.  THIS AGREEMENT, AND ALL ISSUES AND QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE CONSTRUCTION, VALIDITY, ENFORCEMENT AND INTERPRETATION OF THIS AGREEMENT, WILL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO ANY CHOICE OF LAW OR CONFLICT OF LAW RULES OR PROVISIONS (WHETHER OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE OR ANY OTHER JURISDICTION) THAT WOULD CAUSE THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANY JURISDICTION OTHER THAN THE STATE OF DELAWARE.  SUBJECT TO SECTION 24 OF THIS AGREEMENT, THE PARTIES AGREE THAT ALL LITIGATION ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO SECTIONS 10, 11, 12 OR 13 OF THIS AGREEMENT MUST BE BROUGHT EXCLUSIVELY IN DELAWARE (COLLECTIVELY THE ).  EACH PARTY HEREBY CONSENTS AND SUBMITS TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE DESIGNATED COURTS.  WITH RESPECT TO LITIGATION UNDER SECTIONS 10, 11, 12 OR 13 OF THIS AGREEMENT, EACH PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL CLAIMS OR DEFENSES OF LACK OF PERSONAL JURISDICTION OR ANY OTHER JURISDICTION DEFENSE, AND ANY OBJECTION WHICH SUCH PARTY MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY DESIGNATED COURT, INCLUDING ANY RIGHT TO OBJECT ON THE BASIS THAT ANY DISPUTE, ACTION, SUIT OR PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN THE DESIGNATED COURTS HAS BEEN BROUGHT IN AN IMPROPER OR INCONVENIENT FORUM OR VENUE.
Choice of Law; Exclusive Venue
.
DESIGNATED COURTS
23.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, any and all other disputes, controversies or questions arising under, out of, or relating to this Agreement (or the breach thereof), or, the Executives employment with DeVry or termination thereof, other than those disputes relating to Executives alleged violations of Sections 10 (Confidential Information), 11 (return of property), 12 (intellectual property) and 13 (covenants of noncompete and nonsolicitation) of this Agreement, shall be referred for binding arbitration in Chicago, Illinois to a neutral arbitrator (who is licensed to practice law in any State within the United States of America) selected by the Executive and DeVry and this shall be the exclusive and sole means for resolving such dispute.  Such arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the National Rules for Resolution of Employment Disputes of the American Arbitration Association.  The arbitrator shall have the discretion to award reasonable attorneys' fees, costs and expenses to the prevailing party.  Judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.  This Section 24 does not apply to any action by DeVry to enforce Sections 10, 11, 12 and 13 of this Agreement and does not in any way restrict DeVrys rights under Section 22 of this Agreement.
Dispute Resolution
.
12
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
Mutual Waiver of Jury Trial
.
25.  In addition to any rights to indemnification to which the Executive is entitled under DeVrys charter and by-laws, to the extent permitted by applicable law, DeVry will indemnify, from the assets of DeVry supplemented by insurance in an amount determined by DeVry, the Executive at all times, during and after the Employment Period, and, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, shall pay the Executives expenses (including reasonable attorneys fees and expenses, which shall be paid in advance by DeVry as incurred, subject to recoupment in accordance with applicable law) in connection with any threatened or actual action, suit or proceeding to which the Executive may be made a party, brought by any shareholder of DeVry directly or derivatively or by any third party by reason of any act or omission or alleged act or omission in relation to any affairs of DeVry or any subsidiary or affiliate of DeVry of the Executive as an officer, director or employee of DeVry or of any subsidiary or affiliate of DeVry.  DeVry shall use its best efforts to maintain during the Employment Period and thereafter insurance coverage sufficient in the determination of the Board to satisfy any indemnification obligation of DeVry arising under this Section 25.
Indemnification
.  
26.  Executive agrees that during the Employment Period, the Executive shall not make or publish any statements or comments that disparage or injure the reputation or goodwill of DeVry or any of its affiliates, or any of its or their respective officers or directors, or otherwise make any oral or written statements that a reasonable person would expect at the time such statement is made to likely have the effect of diminishing or injuring the reputation or goodwill of DeVry, or any of its affiliates, or any of its or their respective officers or directors; provided, however, nothing herein shall prevent the Executive from providing any information that may be compelled by law.
Nondisparagement
.
13
27.  During the Employment Period and thereafter, the Executive will cooperate with DeVry in any internal investigation or administrative, regulatory or judicial proceeding as reasonably requested by DeVry (including, without limitation, the Executive being available to DeVry upon reasonable notice for interviews and factual investigations, appearing at DeVrys request to give testimony without requiring service of a subpoena or other legal process, volunteering to DeVry all pertinent information and turning over to DeVry all relevant documents which are or may come into the Executive's possession, all at times and on schedules that are reasonably consistent with the Executives other permitted activities and commitments).  In the event DeVry requires the Executives cooperation in accordance with this Section 27, DeVry will pay the Executive a reasonable per diem as determined by the Board and reimburse the Executive for reasonable expenses incurred in connection therewith (including lodging and meals, upon submission of receipts).
Assistance in Proceedings
.
28.  The provisions of this Agreement may be amended or waived only with the prior written consent of DeVry and the Executive or pursuant to Section 17, and no course of conduct or course of dealing or failure or delay by any Party hereto in enforcing or exercising any of the provisions of this Agreement will affect the validity, binding effect or enforceability of this Agreement or be deemed to be an implied waiver of any provision of this Agreement.  
Amendment and Waiver
.
*    *    *    *    *
, the Parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the Effective Date.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
14
APPENDIX I
DEFINITIONS
 means (a) Base Salary earned through the Termination Date; (b) except in the event of a termination by DeVry with Cause, the balance of any awarded (i.e., the amount and payment of the specific award has been fully approved by the Board) but as yet unpaid, annual cash incentive or other incentive awards for any fiscal year prior to the fiscal year during which the Executives Termination Date occurs; (c) a payment representing the Executives accrued but unused vacation; and (d) anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, (i) the payment of any vested, but not forfeited, benefits as of the Termination Date under DeVrys employee benefit plans payable in accordance with the terms of such plans and (ii) the availability of such benefit continuation and conversion rights to which Executive is entitled in accordance with the terms of such plans.
Accrued Benefits
 means any company, directly or indirectly, controlled by, controlling or under common control with DeVry, including, but not limited to, DeVrys subsidiary entities, parent, partners, joint ventures, and predecessors, as well as its successors and assigns.
Affiliates
  means the Board of Directors of DeVry Inc.
Board
 means (a) the provision of educational services to individuals at the secondary through post-secondary levels of education and/or training services to individuals seeking professional certifications or professional education by (i) a market funded institution offering degree and non-degree programs (ii) at classroom locations in multiple states and/or through an online curriculum delivery mechanism, and (b) any other business directly engaged in by DeVry and its Affiliates during the Employment Period.
Business
 means (i) the commission of a felony or other crime involving moral turpitude or the commission of any other act or omission involving misappropriation, dishonesty, fraud, illegal drug use or breach of fiduciary duty, (ii) willful failure to perform duties as reasonably directed by the CEO or the CEOs designee, (iii) the Executives gross negligence or willful misconduct with respect to the performance of the Executives duties hereunder, (iv) obtaining any personal profit not fully disclosed to and approved by the Board in connection with any transaction entered into by, or on behalf of, DeVry, or (v) any other material breach of this Agreement or any other agreement between the Executive and DeVry.
Cause
 means the President and Chief Executive Officer of DeVry Inc.
CEO
 means such term as defined in the DeVry Inc. Incentive Plan of 2005.
Change in Control
 means the period commencing on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the twelve (12) month anniversary of such date.
Change in Control Period
 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 means such code as maintained by DeVry Inc., as amended from time to time.
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
15
 means that committee of the Board which shall have authority over the compensation (cash and non-cash) of certain aspects of DeVry, including, but not limited to, all officers and executives of DeVry, including DeVrys Chief Executive Officer, and all option grants for any employee, executive, officer, director or consultant of DeVry.
Compensation Committee
 means the United States Copyright Act of 1976, as amended.
Copyright Act
 means any Person:
Customer
(a)       who purchased products or services from DeVry or any of its Affiliates during the twelve (12) month period prior to the date of termination of the Executive's employment; or
(b)       to whom DeVry or any of its Affiliates solicited the sale of its products or services during the twelve (12) month period prior to the date of termination of the Executives employment.
 means, without the Executives consent, (i) material diminution in title, duties, responsibilities or authority; (ii) reduction of Base Salary, MIP Target or employee benefits except for across-the-board changes for executives at the Executives level; (iii) exclusion from executive benefit/compensation plans; (iv) material breach of the Agreement that DeVry has not cured within thirty (30) days after the Executive has provided DeVry notice of the material breach which shall be given within sixty (60) days of the Executives knowledge of the occurrence of the material breach; or (v) resignation in compliance with securities, corporate governance or other applicable law (such as the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act) as specifically applicable to such Executive.  For avoidance of doubt, a change in reporting relationship to the CEOs designee shall not constitute Good Reason.
Good Reason
 means the amount actually awarded Executive under DeVrys annual Management Incentive Plan, as in effect from time to time, upon the achievement of specific DeVry-wide and personal performance goals of the Executive that will be determined each fiscal year by the Executives direct supervisor and/or the Compensation Committee as necessary and appropriate to comply with DeVry policy.
MIP Award
 means the percentage of Executives Base Salary established as the target under DeVrys Management Incentive Plan, as adjusted from time to time.
MIP Target
 means mental, physical or other illness, disease or injury, which has prevented the Executive from substantially performing Executives duties hereunder for the greater of:  (a) the eligibility waiting period under DeVrys long term disability Plan, if any, (b) an aggregate of six (6) months in any twelve (12) month period, or (c) a period of three (3) consecutive months.
Permanent Disability
 means any natural person, corporation, general partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or partnership, proprietorship, other business organization, trust, union, association or governmental or regulatory entities, department, agency or authority.
Person
 means the waiver and release agreement generally used by DeVry for executives, as amended from time to time.
Release
 means (a) throughout the world, but if such area is determined by judicial action to be too broad, then it means (b) within North America, but if such area is determined by judicial action to be too broad, then it means (c) within the continental United States, but if such area is determined by judicial action to be too broad, then it means (d) within any state in which DeVry and its Affiliates is engaged in Business.
Restricted Area
 means the last day of Executives employment with DeVry Inc.
Termination Date
16

Exhibit 99.1
William Hughson to Lead DeVrys Growing Medical and Healthcare Group
OAKBROOK TERRACE, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--September 15, 2009--DeVry Inc. (NYSE: DV), a global provider of educational services, announced the appointment of William Hughson as president of its Medical and Healthcare group. The Medical and Healthcare group includes Chamberlain College of Nursing, Ross University and U.S. Education, which comprises Western Career College and Apollo College. He will report to DeVrys President and Chief Executive Officer, Daniel Hamburger.
Bill is a proven business leader with extensive healthcare experience, said Hamburger. His industry expertise, as well as his two decades of experience in successfully managing and growing businesses, will be instrumental in positioning our medical and healthcare programs for future growth. I am very pleased to welcome him to our senior leadership team.
Hughson joins DeVry from DaVita Inc., a leading provider of dialysis services in the United States. At DaVita, he managed a wide number of business units including co-founding DaVita at Home, and founding DaVita Rx. Prior to that, he headed Ultra Lucca, which under his guidance, rebranded itself A.G. Ferrari Foods and more than doubled in size. Prior to A.G. Ferrari Foods, Hughson was president and chief financial officer of Noahs New York Bagels, which he helped to grow from one to 39 stores. Hughson began his career in the Capital Markets Division of Morgan Stanley and subsequently worked at Bain & Company. He received his bachelors degree in English from Williams College and graduated from the Stanford Graduate School of Business with a masters in business administration.
There is a huge unmet demand for well-trained, licensed healthcare professionals. Demographic trends point to accelerating demand for healthcare professionals in the coming years as the aging baby boomers require greater healthcare services. The Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts that between 2006 and 2016, 16 of the top 30 fastest growing professions in the U.S. will be in healthcare.
I am honored to join the DeVry team, said Hughson. Chamberlain, Ross, Apollo and Western are in a tremendous position to prepare students for these jobs and help them achieve their career aspirations. I look forward to working with the talented people at each school to build upon their strong track records of quality, growth and achievement.
About DeVry Inc.
DeVry Inc. (NYSE: DV, member S&P 500 Index) is the parent organization of DeVry University, Advanced Academics, Ross University, Chamberlain College of Nursing, Apollo College, Western Career College, Becker Professional Education, and Fanor. DeVry University, which includes Keller Graduate School of Management, offers associate, bachelor's and master's degree programs in technology, healthcare technology, business and management. Advanced Academics provides education to middle and high school students and school districts in the U.S. Ross University offers doctoral degree programs through its schools of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine. Chamberlain College of Nursing offers associate, bachelor's, and masters degree programs in nursing. Apollo College and Western Career College prepare students for careers in healthcare through certificate, associate and bachelors degree programs. Becker Professional Education is a global leader in professional education serving the accounting, finance and project management professions. Based in Brazil, Fanor offers degree programs in business management, law and engineering through its four schools: Faculdades Nordeste, Faculdade Ruy Barbosa, Faculdade FTE and REA1. For more information, visit .
http://www.devryinc.com
CONTACT: DeVry Inc. Investor Contact: Joan Bates (630) 574-1949 or Media Contact: Larry Larsen (312) 895-4717
jbates@devry.com
llarsen@sardverb.com


