FILE:DV/DV-8K-20101116172735.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) As described below in Item 5.07, on November 10, 2010, at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of DeVry Inc. (DeVry), DeVrys shareholders approved the DeVry Inc. Amended and Restated Incentive Plan of 2005 (the Plan), which previously had been approved by DeVrys Board of Directors (the Board) subject to shareholder approval.  The revised terms of the Plan (i) increase by 3,000,000 the number of shares of common stock of DeVry available for issuance under the Plan; (ii) provide for a clawback of benefits in certain circumstances; and (iii) add invested capital as an available performance goal.
 
The Plan provides for the award of stock options, stock appreciation rights (SARs), restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance stock, performance cash awards, annual management incentive awards and other stock or cash awards (Awards).  Currently, Awards in the form of stock options and restricted stock units are made under the Plan.
 
The Plan includes a clawback provision that permits the Compensation Committee of the Board (the Committee) to include in any Award to a participant who is an officer subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act of 1934 a provision requiring forfeiture and/or recoupment of any portion of an Award that (a) was granted, vested and/or settled based on financial results that were subsequently restated, and/or (b) has its value affected by such restated financials. Restated financials means any financial results that are subsequently restated due to conduct by the participant that the independent members of the Board (or committee thereof) determine is knowingly and intentionally fraudulent or illegal.
 
Awards of restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance stock, performance cash awards and other incentives made under the 2005 Plan to employees who are designated by the Committee as members of DeVrys senior leadership team shall be subject to the attainment of performance goals relating to one or more business criteria within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, including, but not limited to: cash flow; cost; ratio of debt to debt plus equity; profit before tax; economic profit; earnings before interest and taxes; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; earnings per share; operating earnings; economic value added; ratio of operating earnings to capital spending; free cash flow; net profit; net sales; sales growth; price of the common stock; return on net assets, equity, inve sted capital or shareholders equity; market share; or total return to shareholders.  Awards of stock options under the Plan may be made subject to attainment of such performance goals.  Any performance criteria may be used to measure the performance of DeVry as a whole or any business unit of DeVry and may be measured relative to a peer group or index.  Any performance criteria may be adjusted to include or exclude special items as described above.
 
All employees of DeVry and its subsidiaries and all non-employee directors of DeVry are eligible to participate in the Plan.
 
A more detailed summary of the material terms of the Plan appears on pages 41 to 47 of DeVrys Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A (the Proxy Statement) which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 8, 2010. That summary is incorporated by reference herein. That summary and the description of the Plan above are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the Plan, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
DeVry held its Annual Meeting of Shareholders on November 10, 2010. For more information on the proposals presented at the meeting, see the Proxy Statement, the relevant portions of which are incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
The shareholders elected each of the four nominees as Class I Directors to serve until the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders or until their successors are elected and qualified:
 
The shareholders elected the nominee as a Class II Director to serve until the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders or until his successor is elected and qualified:
 
 
The shareholders ratified the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm for DeVry for the year 2011:
The shareholders approved the DeVry Inc. Amended and Restated Incentive Plan of 2005:
The shareholder proposal of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) to enact a policy prohibiting all medically unnecessary surgeries in the teaching program at Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine was defeated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee shall have the authority to construe and interpret the Plan and any awards granted thereunder, to establish and amend rules for Plan administration, to change the terms and conditions of options and other awards at or after grant, and to make all other determinations which it deems necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. The determinations of the Committee shall be made in accordance with their judgment as to the best interests of DeVry and its shareholders and in accordance with the purposes of the Plan. A majority of the members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum, and all determinations of the Committee shall be made by a majority of its members. Any determination of the Committee under the Plan may be made without notice or meeting of the Committee, in writing signed by all the Committee mem bers. The Committee shall authorize the Companys chief executive officer (the CEO) or one or more other officers of the Company to (i) select employees to participate in the Plan, (ii) determine, from the total number of option shares and other awards approved by the Committee, the number of option shares and other awards to be granted to such participants, and (iii) determine the applicable terms and conditions of such awards, except in each case with respect to awards to officers subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act or officers who are or may become covered employees within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code (Covered Employees).  Any reference in the Plan to the Committee (other than in Section 19) shall include such authorized officer or officers. The CEO or such other officer(s) authorized to select employees to receive such option shares and other awards shall provide written notice of all such action to the Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All restrictions shall expire at such times as the Committee shall specify.
 
 
 Notwithstanding satisfaction of any performance goals, the number of shares issued under a Performance Stock award may be adjusted by the Committee on the basis of such further consideration as the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine. However, the Committee may not, in any event, increase the number of shares earned upon satisfaction of any performance goal by any participant who is a Covered Employee. The Committee may, in its discretion, make a cash payment equal to the fair market value of shares of common stock otherwise required to be issued to a participant pursuant to a Performance Stock award.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the satisfaction of any performance goals, the amount to be paid under a Performance Cash Award may be adjusted by the Committee on the basis of such further consideration as the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine. However, the Committee may not, in any event, increase the amount earned under Performance Cash Awards upon satisfaction of any performance goal by any participant who is a Covered Employee and the maximum amount earned by a Covered Employee in any fiscal year may not exceed $1,000,000. The Committee may, in its discretion, substitute actual shares of common stock for the cash payment otherwise required to be made to a participant pursuant to a Performance Cash Award.
 
 
As soon as possible after the determination of the incentive pool for a fiscal year, the Committee shall calculate the participants allocated portion of the incentive pool based upon the percentage established at the beginning of the fiscal year. The participants incentive award then shall be determined by the Committee based on the participants allocated portion of the incentive pool subject to adjustment in the sole discretion of the Committee. In no event may the portion of the incentive pool allocated to a participant who is a Covered Employee be increased in any way, including as a result of the reduction of any other participants allocated portion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


