FILE:DV/DV-8K-20100831155401.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
______________
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report
(Date of earliest event reported)
August 31, 2010
______________
DEVRY INC
.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
______________
(630)
515-7700
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
______________
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On August 31, 2010, DeVry Inc. issued a press release announcing that President and CEO Daniel Hamburger discussed the high-quality educational programs offered by DeVrys institutions while also pledging to continue transparency and accountability in the use of federal financial aid programs at a higher education forum in Chicago today. United States Senator Dick Durbin hosted the roundtable forum to promote a discussion on the role of private-sector higher education in Illinois.
The full text of this press release and Mr. Hamburgers prepared remarks are included as exhibits to this Form 8-K.
Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this Form 8-K and related press release, including those that affect DeVrys expectations or plans, may constitute forward-looking statements subject to the Safe Harbor Provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as DeVry Inc. or its management anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, forecasts, foresees, intends, plans or other words or phrases of similar import.
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause DeVrys actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied by these forward-looking statements.  Additional information regarding factors that could cause results to differ can be found in DeVrys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of August 31, 2010, and DeVry assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
DeVry CEO Discusses Issues in Higher Education at Forum Hosted by Senator Dick Durbin
DeVry graduates and employers also attend forum on private-sector education in Illinois
DOWNERS GROVE, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--August 31, 2010--DeVry Inc., (NYSE:DV)(member S&P 500 Index), today announced that President and CEO Daniel Hamburger discussed the high-quality educational programs offered by DeVrys institutions while also pledging to continue transparency and accountability in the use of federal financial aid programs at a higher education forum in Chicago today. United States Senator Dick Durbin hosted the roundtable forum to promote a discussion on the role of private-sector higher education in Illinois.
In his prepared remarks, Hamburger recounted DeVry Universitys long history in Illinois and said, DeVry has thrived for nearly 80 years by delivering quality and value to our students. Founded in 1931 in Chicago, DeVry University provided electronics education for U.S. military personnel during WWII. DeVry University, including its Keller Graduate School of Management, and Chamberlain College of Nursing are each regionally accredited by the Higher Learning Commission. Together these institutions serve more than 30,000 students in Illinois.
Hamburger was joined at the hearing by DeVry graduates who he said were emblematic of the thousands of students who find that private-sector, career-oriented colleges and universities deliver an education that helps them launch or advance their careers. Also attending were representatives of Hewlett-Packard and Cisco, which are among the largest employers of DeVry University graduates nationwide. Hamburger said that these companies, along with major corporations like TransUnion, Accenture and CSA International rely on DeVry to deliver the highly skilled workforce they need.
Regarding recent proposals from the U.S. Department of Education to institute new rules for participation in federal financial aid programs Hamburger said, We support regulatory solutions that best serve students. He added, We must avoid unintended consequences that would penalize quality programs and in doing so actually reduce access for students, counter to the Presidents objectives. President Obama has set a goal that the U.S. lead the world in college attainment by 2020, which will require an additional 8.2 million postsecondary graduates.
He also noted that private-sector colleges and universities can help expand educational capacity in the U.S. at a time when state budgets are severely constrained. For example, DeVry is helping address the nations acute shortage of nurses through expansion of its Chamberlain College of Nursing, whose roots go back to 1889. Chamberlain opened two new campuses this summer, in Chicago and in Arlington, Va. The nursing shortage is expected to reach one million by 2020, yet 99,000 qualified applicants are turned away from nursing schools every year due to lack of capacity.
In another example, Hamburger said that DeVry is partnering with Americas Promise Alliance, the foundation created by General Colin Powell, to expand a successful program serving urban public school students to 10 cities. DeVry University Advantage Academy was started in Chicago with Arne Duncan when he was CEO of Chicago Public Schools and is also offered in Columbus, Ohio. The dual-enrollment program gives CPS students the opportunity to graduate from high school and earn an associate degree by the end of high school at no cost to the studentand using no public or private financial aid dollars. The program has achieved a dual-degree graduation rate of 92 percent over six years.
Hamburger thanked Senator Durbin for hosting the forum and said he looked forward to working with policymakers and educators to serve the nations students.
About DeVry Inc.
DeVrys purpose is to empower its students to achieve their educational and career goals. DeVry (NYSE: DV)(member S&P 500 Index) is a global provider of educational services and the parent organization of Advanced Academics, Becker Professional Education, Carrington College, Carrington College California, Chamberlain College of Nursing, DeVry Brasil, DeVry University, and Ross University Schools of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine,. These institutions offer a wide array of programs in business, healthcare and technology and serve students in secondary through postsecondary education as well as accounting and finance professionals. For more information, please call 630.353.3800 or visit .
http://www.devryinc.com
CONTACT: Media & Other Inquiries: Ernie Gibble Senior Director/Global Communications, DeVry Inc. (630) 353-9920 Investor Inquiries: Joan Bates Senior Director/Investor & Media Relations, DeVry Inc. (630) 353-3800
egibble@devry.com
jbates@devry.com

Exhibit 99.2
Daniel Hamburger, President and CEO, DeVry Inc. Written Remarks Senator Durbin Forum on Higher Education, August 31, 2010
Thank you Senator Durbin.  Im honored that you asked DeVry to participate today.
I think one thing thats been missing in these discussions are the stories of graduates employers that find that private-sector schools deliver what they need.  I would like to briefly acknowledge some DeVry graduates and employers who are here today.  
and
Shamsa Chaudhry earned her BA in business administration from DeVry in 2002.  She comes from an immigrant family and needed a school that would give her a quality education but give her the flexibility to work full time.  She found that DeVry enabled her to combine her creativity with technology in the digital world.  The result  she is the founder and CEO of Mojo, Inc., an interactive ad agency.
Several other DeVry and Keller graduates are also here: Vincent Bailey, Chief Technology Officer at OnShore Technology Group; Bridget Dancy, CIO for the Circuit Court of Cook County; Christopher Chwedyk, a Director at The Code Group; Dean DeBiase, Chairman of Reboot Partners; Miles Aurbeck, a programmer for Wowzers Gaming Studio; and Timothy Simmons, Vice Chair at Wagenate Development.  Thanks for being here.
Hewlett-Packard and Cisco are also here - theyre two of the largest employers nationwide of DeVry University graduates.  TransUnion, has 13 of our graduates and currently sponsors 5 interns.  And Accenture has hired over 115 DeVry University graduates.  CSA International is also here.  These are highly selective firms who need skilled employees and theyve relied on DeVry graduates for years.
We have many more success stories like these because DeVry has such a long history.  DeVry University was founded in 1931, right here in Chicago, by Dr. Herman DeVry.  During WWII, we helped educate the military in electronics, and after the war, DeVry was one of the first schools approved for the G.I. Bill.
Today, DeVry has grown into a diversified family of institutions that offer a wide range of career-focused education, including a medical school.  In Illinois, we have DeVry University, including its Keller Graduate School of Management, and Chamberlain College of Nursing, both regionally accredited by the Higher Learning Commission.  Keller was the first private-sector school to be accredited by the HLC back in 1977. We have over 30,000 students in Illinois and over 1,100 faculty and support staff working at our 10 DeVry and 2 Chamberlain campuses in the state.  Nationwide, the institutions of DeVry Inc. have over 120,000 students, nearly 18,000 faculty and staff, and 126 campuses.
And we give back to the community.
1
For 20 years, weve provided free college courses to high school students, giving them a jump-start on their education.  Based on that success, in 2004, we worked with Arne Duncan to create the DeVry University Advantage Academy, a dual enrollment program where students earn an associate degree while finishing high school  at no cost to students.  It has a 92% graduation rate.  Americas Promise Alliance, the foundation created by General Colin Powell, has partnered with DeVry to establish the Advantage Academy in 10 other cities.  
One other quick example that illustrates how were providing needed educational capacity.
Our country will have a shortage of one million nurses by 2020, yet were turning away 100 thousand qualified applicants a year due to a lack of capacity in our nations nursing schools.  Mayor Daley asked us to be part of the solution in Illinois, and just last month we opened a new campus of Chamberlain College of Nursing here in the city.
DeVry has thrived for nearly 80 years by delivering and to our students.
quality
value
When we spoke recently you asked how we measure academic .  There are several ways.  At DeVry University, we hold ourselves to a goal: that 9 out of 10 DeVry graduates in the active job market are employed in their field of study within six months of graduation.  We dont always hit the goal; weve dipped to 88% this year with the bad economy.  But since 1975 our 35-year average is more than 9 out of 10.  Another measure is test scores.  Chamberlain nursing graduates pass rate last year on their national licensing exams was over 90%.    
quality
accountable
You can also assess the resources we provide to achieve these results.  For example, DeVry students are assigned a success coach, and weve created Student Central, which provides a one-stop destination for academic, financial, and life-long career services.  We also offer small class sizes, hands-on labs, and full course schedules year round  so many students finish a 4-year Bachelors degree in 3 years.  
Since we dont have an endowment, we re-invest most of our earnings back into enhancing student services.  Last year alone, we invested over $130 million dollars on capacity and quality - new campuses, new computers, and patient simulators.  And we spent almost 4 times as much on instruction than on advertising.
Weve always provided educational to qualified, yet underserved students, including first in their family to go to college, working adults, and ethnic minorities.  These students are often called non-traditional, but they make up 75% of todays college attendees.  DeVry has 2 campuses ranked in the top 10 schools producing African American Bachelor degrees in business administration.   Were serving many students who otherwise wouldnt have had the opportunity.
access
We recognize that some have concerns with private-sector programs.  We respect that students pay a lot of tuition and deserve value, and that taxpayer dollars are involved.  You asked for our perspective and it is this - the solution to the issues has to get it .  It has to be based on facts and analysis, and consider the student population being served.  We must avoid unintended consequences that would penalize quality programs and in so doing student access in this time of need. 
right
reduce
2
Frankly, the proposed regulations are focusing on the wrong metrics.  Look no further than the Education Department (ED) report outlining loan repayment rates, whereby the Chicago Theological Seminary, Roosevelt University and most of the states community colleges, and even Harvard Medical School would fail the test. ED has stated there are no errors in their calculations- ok- then the problem is the methodology.
Its not a good test if half the countrys schools would fail.  The cure is worse than the disease, it seems.  Now, we applaud the recent announcement of increased ED enforcement  thats an appropriate way to use a scalpel, not a machete.
So the core issue is that our countrys priority today is jobs, and a key to jobs is an educated workforce.  We have a shortage of educational capacity, as we saw in the nursing example.  Our traditional colleges are great; its just that they were built for students and they dont have the capacity to serve either todays need, or the 8.2 million additional graduates the President has called for by 2020.  If the proposed rules take effect, they shut down programs and displace hundreds of thousands of students.
traditional
will
Its an access-killer for education, and a job-killer for the country.
Im not saying we should do nothing.  We support accountability and measuring performance.  Our 90% employment goal is just one example of how we hold ourselves accountable.  But, determining appropriate outcome thresholds has been a challenge for all of higher education.  We are working on an Educational Quality Index (EQI) that would include a broader and more comprehensive set of measurements, including default, completion and employment rates.  The EQI would replace cohort default rates, 90/10 and the loan repayment rate as proxies for quality and establishing eligibility.  We should measure education like we measure healthcare, through a variety of different data.  The quality of an institution of higher learning should not be judged by one single measurement.  
We strive to do things in a quality way. And you have my pledge that DeVry will work with you to ensure transparency and accountability in all institutions whose students use federal financial aid.
Senator, DeVrys Tinley Park campus asked me to give you their regards  they remember well your guest lecture in an environmental science course during your visit there.  Id like to invite you to our campus on the north side (we have to be fair to the Cubs fans, after all), where you can see both the latest at DeVry University, and our new Chamberlain College of Nursing campus.  Our students would appreciate the opportunity to share their stories with you.
Thank you.
3


