FILE:DV/DV-8K-20111212152927.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
______________
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report
(Date of earliest event reported)
December 12, 2011
______________
DEVRY INC
.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
______________
(630)
515-7700
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
______________
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01        Other Events
On December 12, 2011, DeVry Inc. issued a press release announcing its 2011 fall enrollments at DeVry University, including its Keller Graduate School of Management, Chamberlain College of Nursing and the Carrington Colleges Group. The full text of that press release is included in Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K.
Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this Form 8-K, including those that affect DeVrys expectations or plans, may constitute forward-looking statements subject to the Safe Harbor Provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as DeVry Inc. or its management anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, forecasts, foresees, intends, plans or other words or phrases of similar import.
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause DeVrys actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied by these forward-looking statements.  Additional information regarding factors that could cause results to differ can be found in DeVrys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 and quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2011.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of December 12, 2011, and DeVry assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
Item 9.01        Financial Statements and Exhibits
99.1  Press Release dated December 12, 2011
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
DeVry Inc. Announces Fall 2011 Enrollment
DOWNERS GROVE, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--December 12, 2011--DeVry Inc. (NYSE:DV), a global provider of career-oriented educational services, today reported its fall 2011 enrollment at DeVry University, including its Keller Graduate School of Management, Chamberlain College of Nursing and Carrington Colleges Group, which comprises Carrington College and Carrington College California. The results are as follows:
1. Includes total degree-seeking student enrollment previously reported on 10/25/2011 for DeVry Brasil, DeVry Medical International. Excludes Becker and Advanced Academics.
2. Includes both onsite and online students
3. The term coursetaker refers to the number of courses taken by a student. Thus one student taking two courses equals two coursetakers
4. Includes Keller Graduate School of Management and other masters degree programs offered at DeVry University
5. Includes all degree levels at DeVry University
Total enrollments were in line with managements expectations. At DeVry University undergraduate and at Carrington, weak economic conditions and persistent unemployment continued to impact consumer confidence and enrollment results, coupled with adjustments associated with new regulations. DeVry University continues to mitigate the effects of this challenging environment by prudently controlling costs, and by increasing employee training to improve the student admissions experience. At the same time, DeVry University is investing in growth initiatives such as new programs and new locations.
Total enrollment at Chamberlain grew 26.2 percent as a result of ongoing investments in new programs and locations. The decrease in new student enrollment was driven by increased competition for its online RN to BSN program. Chamberlain also faced tough year over year comparisons, with a 42 percent new student enrollment growth rate in fall 2010. Its onsite pre-licensure programs continued to grow as did enrollments in its masters degree programs. Chamberlain has received a number of approvals in recent weeks, which should support its future growth:
Approval of its Doctor of Nursing Practice degree program by the Illinois Board of Higher Education (IBHE). Launch of the program is pending final approval from the Higher Learning Commission (HLC);
Approval to increase new student enrollment by 20 percent at its Phoenix location from the Arizona State Board of Nursing;
Approval from the IBHE for a new location in Tinley Park, Ill., which will be a co-location with DeVry University, pending final approval from the Illinois Board of Nursing and the HLC.
Carrington continues to execute a turnaround plan, which includes optimizing its marketing approach to emphasize the development of internally-generated inquiries, and improving its recruiting process through its new student contact center. As part of its growth strategy, Carrington recently received approval to recruit new students at its first Dallas metro location in Mesquite, Texas, with classes beginning in February 2012.
"While we experienced lower enrollment at some of our institutions during this period, theres no change in the fundamental long-term demand for career-oriented education, said Daniel Hamburger, president and chief executive officer of DeVry Inc. We remain well-positioned through our diverse family of educational programs, including our medical programs, professional education and Brazilian operations. We are focused on turning around our performance in the near-term, and remain confident in our ability to grow over the long-term.
DeVry will report financial results for its fiscal 2012 second quarter after the close of the market on Jan. 26, 2012, with a conference call to follow at 3:30 p.m. Central Standard Time.
Chart 1: DeVry Inc. Calendar 2012 Announcements & Events
About DeVry Inc.
DeVry's purpose is to empower its students to achieve their educational and career goals. DeVry (NYSE: DV, member S&P 500 Index) is a global provider of educational services. Recently named an official education provider to Team USA by the U.S. Olympic Committee, DeVry is the parent organization of Advanced Academics, American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine, Becker Professional Education, Carrington College, Carrington College California, Chamberlain College of Nursing, DeVry Brasil, DeVry University, and Ross University Schools of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine. These institutions offer a wide array of programs in business, healthcare and technology. DeVrys institutions serve students in secondary through postsecondary education and professionals in accounting and finance. For more information, please call 630.353.3800 or visit .
http://www.devryinc.com
Certain statements contained in this release concerning DeVry's future performance, including those statements concerning DeVry's expectations or plans, may constitute forward-looking statements subject to the Safe Harbor Provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as DeVry Inc. or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import. Actual results may differ materially from those projected or implied by these forward-looking statements. Potential risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ are described more fully in Item 1A, "Risk Factors," in DeVry's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending June 30, 2011 and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 26, 2011.
CONTACT: DeVry Inc. Investor Contact: Joan Bates, 630-353-3800 or Media Contact: Larry Larsen, 312-895-4717
jbates@devry.com
llarsen@sardverb.com


