FILE:DV/DV-8K-20110512124247.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEVRY INC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 10, 2011, DeVry Inc. (DeVry),  the lenders described in the paragraph immediately below, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, entered into a new revolving credit agreement (the Credit Agreement). The amount of borrowing capacity available under the Credit Agreement is $400 million, with an option to request an increase of an additional $150 million, as needed, in the future.  The Credit Agreement has a five year term ending May 2016.
The new Credit Agreement replaces DeVrys prior $175 million credit facility that was set to expire in January 2012, which included Bank of America, Bank of Montreal, Northern Trust, and JP Morgan Chase as the lending group.  The new Credit Agreement includes these existing lenders along with six other banks (PNC, US Bank, Fifth Third Bank, RBS Citizens, Associated Bank, and HSBC), with Bank of America serving as the administrative agent and  Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith as the lead arranger.
 
Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at LIBOR plus 175 basis points, although higher margins up to 250 basis points may apply based on the ratio of consolidated total debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization). The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative, negative and financial maintenance covenants, representations, warranties, events of default and remedies upon default including acceleration, and borrowing conditions. Full details of the Credit Agreement are contained in the agreement included as Exhibit 4.1 to this Form 8-K.Currently, there are no outstanding borrowings under either the expiring or new credit agreements.
 
There is no material relationship between DeVry or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates and any of the lending parties or the administrative agent, other than in respect of the Credit Agreement and certain banking relationships all entered into in the ordinary course of business.
 
The information set forth under Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 1.02.
 
A copy of the news release issued by the Company on May 12, 2011 announcing the new Credit Agreement is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as otherwise stated in such filing.
 
Forward Looking Statements
 
Certain statements contained in this Form 8-K and related press release, including those that affect DeVrys expectations or plans, may constitute forward-looking statements subject to the Safe Harbor Provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as DeVry Inc. or its management anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, forecasts, foresees, intends, plans or other words or phrases of similar import.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause DeVrys actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied by these forward-looking statements.  Additional information regarding factors that could cause results to differ can be found in DeVrys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended September 30, 2010, December 31, 2010 and March 31, 2011.
 
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of May 10, 2011, and DeVry assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 
(d)   Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
i
 
 
 
 
 
ii
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
iii
 
 
 
 
 
 
iv
 
This (this "") is entered into as of May 10, 2011, among DeVry Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), certain Subsidiaries of DeVry party hereto pursuant to Section 2.17 (each a "" and together with DeVry, each a "" and collectively the ""), each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""), and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer.
CREDIT AGREEMENT
Agreement
DeVry
Designated Borrower
Borrower
Borrowers
Lenders
Lender
DeVry has requested that the Lenders provide a $400,000,000 credit facility for the purposes set forth herein, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
           .
1
.
1
Defined Terms
"" means the status of public recognition granted by any Accrediting Body to an educational institution that meets the Accrediting Body's standards and requirements.
Accreditation
"" means any entity or organization which engages in granting or withholding Accreditation or similar approval for private post-secondary schools and educational programs, in accordance with standards relating to the performance, operation, financial condition and/or educational quality of such schools and programs, including, without limitation, the Accrediting Commission for Career Schools and Colleges of Technology.
Accrediting Body
"" means any Person or assets, as the case may be, acquired through an Acquisition.
Acquired Entity
"" means any transaction or series of related transactions for the purpose of or resulting, directly or indirectly, in (a) the acquisition of all or substantially all of the assets of a Person, or of any business or division of a Person, (b) the acquisition of in excess of 50% of the capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests or equity of any Person, or otherwise causing any Person to become a Subsidiary, or (c) a merger or consolidation or any other combination with another Person (other than a Person that is a Subsidiary before giving effect to such merger or consolidation, provided that DeVry or the Subsidiary is the surviving entity).
Acquisition
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
"'" means, with respect to any currency, the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on with respect to such currency, or such other address or account with respect to such currency as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify the Borrowers and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent
s Office
Schedule 11.2
 
 
 
 
 
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
Exhibit H
"" means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.  "" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise.  "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a Person shall be deemed to be Controlled by another Person if such other Person possesses, directly or indirectly, power to vote 10% or more of the securities having ordinary voting power for the election of directors, managing general partners or the equivalent.
Affiliate
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Agreement
"" means the Commitments of all the Lenders.  The initial amount of the Aggregate Commitments in effect on the Closing Date is $400,000,000.
Aggregate Commitments
"" means each of Euro, Sterling, Canadian Dollars and each other currency (other than Dollars) that is approved in accordance with .
Alternative Currency
Section 1.8
"" means, at any time, with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, the equivalent amount thereof in the applicable Alternative Currency as determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, at such time on the basis of the Spot Rate (determined in respect of the most recent Revaluation Date) for the purchase of such Alternative Currency with Dollars.
Alternative Currency Equivalent
"" means an amount equal to the lesser of the Aggregate Commitments and $100,000,000.  The Alternative Currency Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Alternative Currency Sublimit
"" means the following percentages per annum, based upon the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as set forth in the most recent Compliance Certificate received by the Administrative Agent pursuant to :
Applicable Rate
Section 6.2(b)
Any increase or decrease in the Applicable Rate resulting from a change in the Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall become effective as of the first Business Day immediately following the date a Compliance Certificate is delivered pursuant to ; , , that if a Compliance Certificate is not delivered when due in accordance with such Section, then, upon the request of the Required Lenders, Pricing Level 1 shall apply as of the first Business Day after the date on which such Compliance Certificate was required to have been delivered and shall remain in effect until the date on which such Compliance Certificate is delivered in accordance with , whereupon the Applicable Rate
Section 6.2(b)
provided
however
Section 6.2(b)
 
 
2
 
 
shall be adjusted based upon the calculation of the Consolidated Leverage Ratio contained in such Compliance Certificate.  The Applicable Rate in effect from the Closing Date through the first Business Day immediately following the date a Compliance Certificate is delivered pursuant to for the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2011 shall be determined based upon Pricing Level 4.
Section 6.2(b)
"" means, with respect to any borrowings and payments in any Alternative Currency, the local time in the place of settlement for such Alternative Currency as may be determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to be necessary for timely settlement on the relevant date in accordance with normal banking procedures in the place of payment.
Applicable Time
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
"" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, in its capacity as sole lead arranger and sole book manager.
Arranger
"" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by ), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Section 11.7(b)
Exhibit E
"" means and includes all fees, expenses and disbursements of any law firm or other external counsel and, without duplication, the allocated cost of internal legal services and all expenses and disbursements of internal counsel.
Attorney Costs
"" means, on any date, (a) in respect of any capital lease of any Person, the capitalized amount thereof that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP, and (b) in respect of any Synthetic Lease Obligation, the capitalized amount of the remaining lease payments under the relevant lease that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP if such lease were accounted for as a capital lease.
Attributable Indebtedness
"" means the audited consolidated balance sheet of DeVry and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year of DeVry and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto.
Audited Financial Statements
"" has the meaning specified in .
Auto-Extension Letter of Credit
Section 2.3(b)(iii)
"" means the period from and including the Closing Date to the earliest of (a) the Maturity Date, (b) the date of termination of the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to , and (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and of the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions pursuant to .
Availability Period
Section 2.6
Section 8.2
"" means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.
Bank of America
"" means the Federal Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978 (11 U.S.C.  101, ).
Bankruptcy Code
et.  seq.
 
 
3
 
 
""means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of (a) the Federal Funds Rate 1/2 of 1%, (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate" and (c) the Eurocurrency Rate 1.0%.  The "prime rate" is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate.  Any change in such rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate
 
plus
plus
 
"" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.  All Base Rate Loans shall be denominated in Dollars.
Base Rate Loan
"" means a Revolving Loan that is a Base Rate Loan.
Base Rate Revolving Loan
"" means DeVry or the applicable Designated Borrower, as the context may require.
Borrower
"" has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Materials
Section 6.2
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Borrowers
"" means a Revolving Borrowing or a Swing Line Borrowing, as the context may require.
Borrowing
"" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the state where the Administrative Agent's Office with respect to Obligations denominated in Dollars is located and:  (a) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Dollars or any Base Rate Loan bearing interest at a rate based on the Eurocurrency Rate, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Dollars in respect of any such Loan, or any other dealings in Dollars to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Loan, means any such day that is also a London Banking Day; (b) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Euro, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Euro in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, or any other dealings in Euro to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, means a TARGET Day; (c) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in a currency other than Dollars or Euro, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in the relevant currency are conducted by and between banks in the London or other applicable offshore interbank market for such currency; and (d) if such day relates to any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in a currency other than Dollars or Euro in respect of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in a currency other than Dollars or Euro, or any other dealings in any currency other than Dollars or Euro to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan (other than any interest rate settings), means any such day on which banks are open for foreign exchange business in the principal financial center of the country of such currency.
Business Day
"" and "" mean the lawful currency of Canada.
Canadian Dollar
C$
"" means to pledge and deposit with or deliver to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender (as applicable) and the Lenders, as collateral for L/C Obligations, Obligations in respect of Swing Line Loans, or obligations of Lenders to fund participations in respect of either thereof (as the context may require), cash or deposit
Cash Collateralize
 
 
4
 
 
account balances or, if the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender benefitting from such collateral shall agree in its sole discretion, other credit support, in each case pursuant to documentation in form and substance satisfactory to (a) the Administrative Agent and (b) the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender (as applicable). "" shall have a meaning correlative to the foregoing and shall include the proceeds of such cash collateral and other credit support.
Cash Collateral
"" means the occurrence, after the Closing Date, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation, implementation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, rule, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority; that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (x) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines or directives thereunder or issued in connection therewith and (y) all requests, rules, guidelines or directives promulgated by the Bank for International settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a "Change in Law", regardless of the date enacted, adopted or issued.
Change in Law
provided
"" means, with respect to any Person, an event or series of events by which:
Change of Control
(a)           any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except that a person or group shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all securities that such person or group has the right to acquire (such right, an "option right"), whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the equity securities of such Person entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of such Person on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that such person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to any option right);
Sections 13(d)
14(d)
(b)           during any period of 12 consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board of directors or other equivalent governing body of such Person cease to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first day of such period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body (excluding, in the case of both clause (ii) and clause (iii), any individual whose initial nomination for, or assumption of office as, a member of that board or equivalent governing body occurs as a result of an actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents for the election or removal of one or more directors by any person or group other than a solicitation for the election of one or more directors by or on behalf of the board of directors); or
(c)           DeVry fails to own and control, directly or indirectly, 100% of the outstanding Equity Interests (other than (i) directors' qualifying shares and (ii) shares issued to foreign nationals to the extent required by applicable Law) of the Designated Borrowers.
 
 
5
 
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
Closing Certificate
Section 4.1(a)(x)
"" means May 10, 2011
Closing Date
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
"" shall have the meaning as provided in 34 C.F.R. Section 668 Subpart M.
Cohort Default Rate
"" means all Collateral as defined in the Pledge Agreement.
Collateral
"" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to (a) make Revolving Loans to the Borrowers pursuant to , (b) purchase participations in L/C Obligations, and (c) purchase participations in Swing Line Loans, in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed for any Borrower (or all Borrowers) the applicable Dollar amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
Commitment
Section 2.1
Schedule 2.1
"" means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit D
"" means, for any period, for DeVry and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, an amount equal to Consolidated Net Income for such period,
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
(a)           the following to the extent deducted in calculating such Consolidated Net Income: (i) Consolidated Interest Charges for such period, (ii) the provision for federal, state, local and foreign income taxes based on or measured by income used or included in the determination of such Consolidated Net Income, (iii) the amount of depreciation and amortization expense deducted in determining such Consolidated Net Income, (iv) all non-cash expenses incurred for the issuance of employee stock options and other stock based compensation in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No.  123 (revised 2004), and (v) all non-cash and nonrecurring charges,
minus
(b)           to the extent included in such Consolidated Net Income, all nonrecurring and non-cash gains for such period.
"" means, for any period, for DeVry and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, an amount equal to Consolidated EBITDA for such period, less (i) the amount of depreciation and amortization expense deducted in the determination of Consolidated Net Income for such period, (ii) Consolidated Rental Payments deducted in the determination of Consolidated Net Income for such period.
Consolidated EBITR
plus
"" means as of any date of determination, the ratio of:
Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
(a)           Consolidated EBITR for the period of the four fiscal quarters then most recently ended, to
(b)           the sum of (i) all dividends paid in cash during such period, (ii) Consolidated Interest Charges paid or required to be paid during such period, (iii) all Consolidated Rental Payments of DeVry and its Subsidiaries during such period.
plus
plus
 
 
6
 
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, for DeVry and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) the outstanding principal amount of all obligations, whether current or long-term, for borrowed money (including Obligations hereunder) and all obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments, (b) all purchase money Indebtedness, (c) all obligations (whether direct or contingent) arising under standby letters of credit, bankers' acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds (but only to the extent such surety bonds exceed $10,000,000 in the aggregate) and similar instruments, (d) all obligations in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business), (e) Attributable Indebtedness in respect of capital leases and Synthetic Lease Obligations, (f) without duplication, all Guarantees with respect to outstanding Indebtedness of the types specified in clauses (a) through (e) above of Persons other than DeVry or any Subsidiary, and (g) all Indebtedness of the types referred to in clauses (a) through (f) above of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which DeVry or a Subsidiary is a general partner or joint ventures, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to DeVry or such Subsidiary; , , that the definition of Consolidated Funded Indebtedness shall not include any outstanding principal amounts for Obligations borrowed hereunder within 5 business days of June 30 of each year; it being understood, however, that the total of all Obligations not included in the definition of Consolidated Funded Indebtedness pursuant to the first proviso of this paragraph, shall (i) be repaid within 5 business days after June 30, (ii) not exceed $50,000,000 at any time, (iii) only be excluded from the definition of Consolidated Funded Indebtedness as of June 30 of each applicable year and not at any other date and (iv) only be excluded from the definition of Consolidated Funded Indebtedness for the express purpose of determining the Consolidated Leverage Ratio for use in determining the Applicable Rate at June 30 of each year based on such Consolidated Leverage Ratio.
Consolidated Funded Indebtedness
provided
however
"" means, for any period, for DeVry and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) all interest, premium payments, debt discount, fees, charges and related expenses of DeVry and its Subsidiaries in connection with borrowed money (including capitalized interest) or in connection with the deferred purchase price of assets, in each case to the extent treated as interest in accordance with GAAP, and (b) the portion of rent expense of DeVry and its Subsidiaries with respect to such period under capital leases that is treated as interest in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Interest Charges
"" means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Funded Indebtedness as of such date to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for the period of the four fiscal quarters most recently ended.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
"" means, for any period, for DeVry and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the net income of DeVry and its Subsidiaries (excluding extraordinary gains but including extraordinary losses) for that period.
Consolidated Net Income
"" means, as of any date of determination, for DeVry and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, Shareholders' Equity of DeVry and its Subsidiaries on that date.
Consolidated Net Worth
"" means, for any period, for DeVry and its Subsidiaries, all payments under all operating leases (including subleases but excluding payments under (i) Synthetic Leases and (ii) leases of student housing so long as the terms thereof do not exceed 18 months, and the aggregate payments under all such student housing leases do not exceed $5,000,000 in any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters).
Consolidated Rental Payments
"" means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Affiliate."
Control
 
 
7
 
 
"" means each of the following: (a) a Borrowing and (b) an L/C Credit Extension.
Credit Extension
"" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions (including any applicable foreign jurisdictions) from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
"" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
"" means (a) when used with respect to Obligations other than Letter of Credit Fees, an interest rate equal to (i) the Base Rate (ii) the Applicable Rate, if any, applicable to Base Rate Loans (iii) 2% per annum; , , that with respect to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate and any Mandatory Cost) otherwise applicable to such Loan 2% per annum, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws and (b) when used with respect to Letter of Credit Fees, a rate equal to the Applicable Rate 2% per annum.
Default Rate
plus
plus
provided
however
plus
plus
"" means, subject to , any Lender that, as determined by the Administrative Agent, (a) has failed to perform any of its funding obligations hereunder,  including in respect of its Loans or participations in respect of Letters of Credit or Swing Line Loans, within three Business Days of the date required to be funded by it hereunder, (b) has notified DeVry or the Administrative Agent that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations or has made a public statement to that effect with respect to its funding obligations hereunder or under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) has failed, within three Business Days after request by the Administrative Agent, to confirm in a manner satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that it will comply with its funding obligations, or (d) has, or has a direct or indirect parent company that has, (i) become the subject of a proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, (ii) had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or a custodian appointed for it, or (iii) taken any action in furtherance of, or indicated its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment; that a Lender shall not be a Defaulting Lender solely by virtue of the ownership or acquisition of any equity interest in that Lender or any direct or indirect parent company thereof by a Governmental Authority.
Defaulting Lender
Section 2.16(b)
provided
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Designated Borrower
"" has the meaning specified in .
Designated Borrower Joinder Agreement
Section 2.17
"" means a promissory note made by the applicable Designated Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender, substantially in the form of .
Designated Borrower Note
Exhibit C-2
"" has the meaning specified in .
Designated Borrower Request
Section 2.17
"" means the guaranty of DeVry pursuant to .
DeVry Guaranty
Article X
"" means a promissory note made by DeVry in favor of a Lender, substantially in the form of .
DeVry Note
Exhibit C-1
 
 
8
 
 
"" or "" means the sale, transfer, license, lease or other disposition (excluding any Sale and Leaseback transactions) of any property by any Person, including any sale, assignment, transfer or other disposal, with or without recourse, of any notes or accounts receivable or any rights and claims associated therewith.
Disposition
Dispose
"" means the United States Department of Education and any successor agency administering federal student financial assistance under Title IV.
DOE
"" means DeVry's composite score as of any fiscal year end, as determined by the Secretary of the DOE pursuant to Section 668.172 of 34 C.F.R.
DOE Ratio
"" and "" mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
"" means, at any time, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, such amount, and (b) with respect to any amount denominated in any Alternative Currency, the equivalent amount thereof in Dollars as determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, at such time on the basis of the Spot Rate (determined in respect of the most recent Revaluation Date) for the purchase of Dollars with such Alternative Currency.
Dollar Equivalent
"" means, as of any date of determination, any Subsidiary which (i) conducts no business, (ii) is not the obligor of any Indebtedness, (iii) has assets which (together with the assets of all other Dormant Subsidiaries) do not exceed 3% of the consolidated assets of DeVry and its Subsidiaries at such time, and (iv) has EBITDA which (together with EBITDA of its Subsidiaries, if any, and EBITDA of all other Dormant Subsidiaries) does not exceed 3% of the Consolidated EBITDA of DeVry and its Subsidiaries at such time.
Dormant Subsidiary
"" means the economic and monetary union in accordance with the Treaty of Rome 1957, as amended by the Single European Act 1986, the Maastricht Treaty of 1992 and the Amsterdam Treaty of 1998.
EMU
"" means the legislative measures of the European Council for the introduction of, changeover to or operation of a single or unified European currency.
EMU Legislation
"" means, in the case of a Subsidiary, for any period, on a consolidated basis, an amount equal to consolidated net income for such period, (a) the following to the extent deducted in calculating such consolidated net income: (i) consolidated interest charges for such period, (ii) the provision for federal, state, local and foreign income taxes based on or measured by income used or included in the determination of such consolidated net income, (iii) the amount of depreciation and amortization expense deducted in determining such consolidated net income and (iv) all non-cash and nonrecurring charges, (b) to the extent included in such consolidated net income, all nonrecurring and non-cash gains for such period.
EBITDA
plus
minus
"" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under and (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under ).
Eligible Assignee
Sections 11.7(b)(iii)
(v)
Section 11.7(b)(iii)
"" means the letter agreement, dated April 7, 2011 among DeVry, the Administrative Agent and the Arranger.
Engagement Letter
 
 
9
 
 
"" means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of DeVry, any other Loan Party or any of their respective Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with DeVry within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) the withdrawal of DeVry or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which such entity was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by DeVry or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate a Pension Plan under Section 4041(c) of ERISA, (e) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate a Pension Plan under Section 4042 of ERISA; (f) any event or condition which could reasonably be expected to constitute grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan; (g) the determination that any Pension Plan is considered an at-risk plan or a plan in endangered or critical status within the meaning of Section 430 of the Code or Section 303 of ERISA or (h) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon DeVry or any ERISA Affiliate.
ERISA Event
"" and "" mean the lawful currency of the Participating Member States introduced in accordance with the EMU Legislation.
Euro
EUR
"" means,
Eurocurrency Rate
(a)           for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the rate per annum equal to (i) the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or such other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as may be designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for deposits in the relevant currency (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period or (ii) if such published rate is not available at such time for any reason, the rate determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in the relevant currency for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in Same Day Funds in the approximate amount of the Eurocurrency Rate Loan being made, continued or converted and with
BBA LIBOR
 
 
10
 
 
a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch (or other Bank of America branch or Affiliate) to major banks in the London or other offshore interbank market for such currency at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period; and
(b)           for any interest calculation with respect to a Base Rate Loan on any date, the rate per annum equal to (i) BBA LIBOR, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time determined two London Banking Days prior to such date for Dollar deposits being delivered in the London interbank market for a term of one month commencing that day or (ii) if such published rate is not available at such time for any reason, the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the date of determination in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Base Rate Loan being made or maintained and with a term equivalent to one month would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch to major banks in the London interbank eurodollar market at their request at the date and time of determination.
"" means a Revolving Loan that bears interest at a rate based on clause (a) of definition of "Eurocurrency Rate."  Eurocurrency Rate Loans may be denominated in Dollars or in an Alternative Currency.  All Revolving Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency must be Eurocurrency Rate Loans.
Eurocurrency Rate Loan
"" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 8.1
""  see .
Excluded Taxes
Section 3.1(a)
"" means the Letters of Credit listed in regardless of whether or not the account party is DeVry (it being understood that for purposes of this Agreement, DeVry shall be deemed to be the account party with respect to all Existing Letters of Credit).
Existing Letters of Credit
Schedule 1.1A
"" means Section 1471 through 1474 of the Code, including any regulations promulgated thereunder or official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
"" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; provided that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
Foreign Lender
Section 11.15(a)(i)
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
"" means, at any time there is a Defaulting Lender, (a) with respect to the L/C Issuer, such Defaulting Lender's Pro Rata Share of the outstanding L/C Obligations other than L/C Obligations as to which such Defaulting Lender's participation obligation has been reallocated to other Lenders or Cash Collateralized in accordance with the terms hereof, and (b) with respect to the Swing Line Lender, such Defaulting Lender's Pro Rata Share of Swing Line Loans other than Swing Line Loans as to which such Defaulting Lender's participation obligation has been reallocated to other Lenders or Cash Collateralized in accordance with the terms hereof.
Fronting Exposure
 
 
11
 
 
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
Fund
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
GAAP
"" means Global Education International, Inc., a Barbados corporation.
GEI
"" means any nation or government, any state or other political subdivision thereof, any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, administrative tribunal, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
"" means any U.S. Guarantor and any Offshore Guarantor.
Guarantor
"" means, as to any Person, any (a) any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation payable or performable by another Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or indirect, (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation, (ii) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance of such Indebtedness or other obligation, (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity or level of income or cash flow of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation, or (iv) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part), or (b) any Lien on any assets of such Person securing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person, whether or not such Indebtedness or other obligation is assumed by such Person.  The amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the related primary obligation, or portion thereof, in respect of which such Guarantee is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the guaranteeing Person in good faith; , , with respect to any Guarantee described in clause (b) above, to the extent the Indebtedness or obligation secured thereby has not been assumed by the guarantor or is nonrecourse to the guarantor, the amount of such Guarantee shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the lesser of the fair market value of the assets subject to such Lien or the Indebtedness or obligation secured thereby.  The term "Guarantee" as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Guarantee
provided
however
"" has the meaning specified in .
Guaranteed Obligations
Section 10.1
"" means any U.S. Subsidiary Guaranty and any Offshore Guaranty.
Guaranty
 
 
12
 
 
"" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
"" means the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended.
HEA
"" has the meaning specified in .
Honor Date
Section 2.3(c)
"" means, as to any Person at a particular time, without duplication, all of the following, whether or not included as indebtedness or liabilities in accordance with GAAP:
Indebtedness
(a)           all obligations of such Person for borrowed money and all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments;
(b)           all direct or contingent obligations of such Person arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial), bankers' acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds (but only to the extent that such surety bonds exceed $10,000,000 in the aggregate) and similar instruments;
(c)           net obligations of such Person under any Swap Contract;
(d)           all obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business);
(e)           indebtedness (excluding prepaid interest thereon) secured by a Lien on property owned or being purchased by such Person (including indebtedness arising under conditional sales or other title retention agreements), whether or not such indebtedness shall have been assumed by such Person or is limited in recourse;
(f)           capital leases and Synthetic Lease Obligations; and
(g)           all Guarantees of such Person in respect of any of the foregoing.
For all purposes hereof, the Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which such Person is a general partner or a joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to such Person.  The amount of any net obligation under any Swap Contract on any date shall be deemed to be the Swap Termination Value thereof as of such date.  The amount of any capital lease or Synthetic Lease Obligation as of any date shall be deemed to be the amount of Attributable Indebtedness in respect thereof as of such date.  The amount of any Indebtedness described in clause (e), if such Indebtedness has not been assumed or is limited in recourse to the property subject to such Lien, shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the lesser of the fair market value of the such property or the Indebtedness secured thereby.
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Indemnitees
Section 11.4(b)
"" means, (a) as to any Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan (including a Swing Line Loan), the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
 
 
13
 
 
"" means, as to each Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurocurrency Rate Loan is disbursed or converted to or continued as a Eurocurrency Rate Loan and ending on the date one, two, three or six months thereafter, as selected by the applicable Borrower in its Revolving Loan Notice provided that:
Interest Period
(i)           any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
(ii)           any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
(iii)           no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.
"" means, as to any Person, any direct or indirect acquisition or investment by such Person, whether by means of (a) the purchase or other acquisition of capital stock or other securities of another Person, (b) a loan, advance or capital contribution to, Guarantee or assumption of debt of, or purchase or other acquisition of any other debt or equity participation or interest in, another Person, including any partnership or joint venture interest in such other Person, or (c) the purchase or other acquisition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of assets of another Person that constitute a business unit.  For purposes of covenant compliance, the amount of any Investment shall be the amount actually invested, without adjustment for subsequent increases or decreases in the value of such Investment.
Investment
"" has the meaning set forth in .
IP Rights
Section 5.18
"" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
"" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the "International Standby Practices 1998" published by the Institute of International Banking Law & Practice, Inc. (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance).
ISP
"" means with respect to any Letter of Credit, the Letter of Credit Application, and any other document, agreement and instrument entered into by the L/C Issuer and DeVry (or any Subsidiary) or in favor of the L/C Issuer and relating to such Letter of Credit.
Issuer Documents
"" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Laws
"" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's funding of its participation in any L/C Borrowing in accordance with its Pro Rata Share.  All L/C Advances shall be denominated in Dollars.
L/C Advance
 
 
14
 
 
"" means an extension of credit resulting from a drawing under any Letter of Credit which has not been reimbursed on the date when made or refinanced as a Borrowing.  All L/C Borrowings shall be denominated in Dollars.
L/C Borrowing
"" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the issuance thereof or extension of the expiry date thereof, or the increase of the amount thereof.
L/C Credit Extension
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder, or any successor issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder.
L/C Issuer
"" means, as at any date of determination, the aggregate amount available to be drawn under all outstanding Letters of Credit the aggregate of all Unreimbursed Amounts, including all L/C Borrowings.  For purposes of computing the amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with .  For all purposes of this Agreement, if on any date of determination a Letter of Credit has expired by its terms but any amount may still be drawn thereunder by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of the ISP, such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be "outstanding" in the amount so remaining available to be drawn.
L/C Obligations
plus
Section 1.10
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto and, as the context requires, includes the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender.
Lender
"" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
"" means any standby letter of credit issued hereunder and shall include the Existing Letters of Credit.  Letters of Credit may be issued in Dollars or in an Alternative Currency.
Letter of Credit
"" means an application and agreement for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit in the form from time to time in use by the L/C Issuer.
Letter of Credit Application
"" means the day that is seven days prior to the Maturity Date then in effect (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day).
Letter of Credit Expiration Date
"" has the meaning specified in .
Letter of Credit Fee
Section 2.3(h)
"" means an amount equal to $50,000,000.  The Letter of Credit Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Letter of Credit Sublimit
"" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge, or preference, priority or other security interest or preferential arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, and any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing).
Lien
"" means an extension of credit by a Lender to a Borrower under in the form of a Revolving Loan or a Swing Line Loan.
Loan
Article II
 
 
15
 
 
"" means this Agreement, each Note, each Issuer Document, the Engagement Letter, the U.S. Guaranty, each Offshore Guaranty, each Designated Borrower Joinder Agreement, the Pledge Documents and any documents executed pursuant to .
Loan Documents
Section 7.14
"" means, collectively, the Borrowers and the Guarantors.
Loan Parties
"" means any day on which dealings in Dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
London Banking Day
"" means, with respect to any period, the percentage rate per annum determined in accordance with .
Mandatory Cost
Schedule 1.1B
"" means (a) a material adverse effect on the business, assets, regulatory or tax status, properties, liabilities (actual or contingent), operations or condition (financial or otherwise) of DeVry and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) a material impairment of the ability of any Loan Party to perform its obligations under any Loan Document to which it is a party; or (c) a material adverse effect upon the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against any Loan Party of any Loan Document to which it is a party.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means May 10, 2016.
Maturity Date
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
"" means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which DeVry or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means loans to students made under DeVry's institutional loan program net of allowances for credit losses.
Net Institutional Student Loans
"" has the meaning specified in .
Nonextension Notice Date
Section 2.3(b)(iii)
"" means a promissory note made by a Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender, substantially in the form of in the case of DeVry or in the case of a Designated Borrower.
Note
Exhibit C-1
Exhibit C-2
"" means (i) all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of, any Loan Party arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan or Letter of Credit, and (ii) all debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of any Loan Party arising under any Specified Swap Contract, in the case of each of clauses (i) and (ii), whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against any Loan Party or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
"" means each Subsidiary of, or direct or indirect parent of, a Designated Borrower which has executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent an Offshore Guaranty.
Offshore Guarantor
"" means a guaranty substantially in the form of .
Offshore Guaranty
Exhibit F-2
 
 
16
 
 
"" means an amount equal to the lesser of the Aggregate Commitments and $100,000,000.  The Offshore Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Offshore Sublimit
"" means any Subsidiary which is not a U.S. Subsidiary.
Offshore Subsidiary
"" means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any Offshore jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
Organization Documents
"" has the meaning specified in .
Other Taxes
Section 3.1(b)
"" means (i) with respect to Revolving Loans and Swing Line Loans on any date, the Dollar Equivalent amount of the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of Revolving Loans and Swing Line Loans, as the case may be, occurring on such date; and (ii) with respect to any L/C Obligations on any date, the Dollar Equivalent amount of the aggregate outstanding amount of such L/C Obligations on such date after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension occurring on such date and any other changes in the aggregate amount of the L/C Obligations as of such date, including as a result of any reimbursements of Unreimbursed Amounts or any reductions in the maximum amount available for drawing under Letters of Credit taking effect on such date.
Outstanding Amount
"" means, for any day, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, the greater of (i) the Federal Funds Rate and (ii) an overnight rate determined by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, or the Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, and (b) with respect to any amount denominated in an Alternative Currency, the rate of interest per annum at which overnight deposits in the applicable Alternative Currency, in an amount approximately equal to the amount with respect to which such rate is being determined, would be offered for such day by a branch or Affiliate of Bank of America in the applicable offshore interbank market for such currency to major banks in such interbank market.
Overnight Rate
"" has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 11.7(d)
"" means each state so described in any EMU Legislation.
Participating Member State
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
"" means any "employee pension benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, that is subject to Title IV of ERISA and is sponsored or maintained by DeVry or any ERISA Affiliate or to which DeVry or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has an obligation to contribute, or in the case of a multiple employer or other plan described in Section 4064(a) of ERISA, has made contributions at any time during the immediately preceding five plan years.
Pension Plan
 
 
17
 
 
"" means an Acquisition which meets each of the following conditions:
Permitted Acquisition
(i)           DeVry shall have given to the Administrative Agent 10 days' notice of the proposed closing date thereof (together with a summary thereof), it being understood that promptly upon receipt of such notice the Administrative Agent shall furnish a copy thereof to the Lenders or post a copy thereof on IntraLinks/IntraAgency or another relevant website for access thereto by each Lender;
(ii)           such Acquisition is non-hostile (i.e., the prior, effective written consent or approval to such Acquisition of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the Acquired Entity is obtained);
(iii)           the Acquired Entity represents a line of business substantially the same as or related or incidental to the lines of business carried on by DeVry and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof;
(iv)           if the Acquired Entity is an accredited, Title IV eligible institution and the total consideration for the Acquisition exceeds $25,000,000, such Acquired Entity is in good standing with all applicable accrediting agencies (it being understood that, for purposes hereof, an Acquired Entity shall be deemed not to be in good standing if it shall have received an order, notice or other decision from an accrediting agency in a jurisdiction in which such Acquired Entity provides post secondary education, to the effect that the authority of such Acquired Entity to provide postsecondary education in such jurisdiction is or will be withdrawn, revoked or terminated);
(v)           immediately before and after giving effect to such Acquisition, (a) no Default or Event of Default shall exist, and (b) the financial tests set forth in , determined on a pro forma basis, shall not exceed the limits specified in ; and
Section 7.15
Section 7.15
(vi)           DeVry shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent a certificate of a Senior Responsible Officer satisfactory to the Administrative Agent to the effect of the matters set forth in clauses (ii) through (v) above (it being understood that such certificate shall include reasonable calculations supporting the matters set forth therein).
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any "employee benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) established by DeVry or, with respect to any such plan that is subject to Section 412 of the Code or Title IV of ERISA, any ERISA Affiliate.
Plan
"" has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 6.2
"" means the Pledge Agreement dated as of May 10, 2011 among DeVry, various Subsidiaries party thereto, and the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties, substantially in the form of , as the same may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time.
Pledge Agreement
Exhibit G
"" means the Pledge Agreement and all documents executed in connection therewith or provided for therein.
Pledge Documents
 
 
18
 
 
"" means, with respect to each Lender at any time, a fraction (expressed as a percentage, carried out to the ninth decimal place), the numerator of which is the amount of the Commitment of such Lender at such time and the denominator of which is the amount of the Aggregate Commitments at such time; provided that if the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to , then the Pro Rata Share of each Lender shall be determined based on the Pro Rata Share of such Lender immediately prior to such termination and after giving effect to any subsequent assignments made pursuant to the terms hereof.  The initial Pro Rata Share of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.  The Pro Rata Shares shall be subject to adjustment as provided in .
Pro Rata Share
Section 8.2
Schedule 2.1
Section 2.16
"" has the meaning specified in .
Public Lender
Section 6.2
 shall mean, as applicable, either the Put Option or the Call Option under and as defined in that certain Shareholders Agreement, dated as of April 1, 2009, by and between Global Education International B.V. and EDUP Empreendimentos E Participacoes S/A.
Put/Call Option
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Register
Section 11.7(c)
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the thirty-day notice period has been waived.
Reportable Event
"" means (a) with respect to a Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Revolving Loans, a Revolving Loan Notice, (b) with respect to an L/C Credit Extension, a Letter of Credit Application, and (c) with respect to a Swing Line Loan, a Swing Line Loan Notice.
Request for Credit Extension
"" means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitments or, if the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to , Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the Total Outstandings (with the aggregate amount of each Lender's risk participation and funded participation in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans being deemed "held" by such Lender for purposes of this definition).  The unfunded commitments of, and the outstanding Loans, L/C Obligations and participations therein held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
Section 8.2
"" means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, treasurer, assistant treasurer or controller of a Loan Party.  Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of a Loan Party shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of such Loan Party and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of such Loan Party.
Responsible Officer
"" means any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such capital stock or other equity interest or of any option, warrant or other right to acquire any such capital stock or other equity interest.
Restricted Payment
 
 
19
 
 
"" means (a) with respect to any Loan, each of the following:  (i) each date of a Borrowing of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency, (ii) each date of a continuation of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency pursuant to , and (iii) such additional dates as the Administrative Agent shall determine or the Required Lenders shall require; and (b) with respect to any Letter of Credit, each of the following:  (i) each date of issuance of a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency, (ii) each date of an amendment of any such Letter of Credit having the effect of increasing the amount thereof (solely with respect to the increased amount), (iii) each date of any payment by the L/C Issuer under any Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency, and (iv) such additional dates as the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer shall determine or the Required Lenders shall require.
Revaluation Date
Section 2.2
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Revolving Loans of the same Type, in the same currency, and, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to .
Revolving Borrowing
Section 2.1
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Revolving Loan
Section 2.1
"" means a notice of (a) a Revolving Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Revolving Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Revolving Loan Notice
Section 2.2(a)
Exhibit A
"" means Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC, a Subsidiary of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
S&P
"" has the meaning specified in .
Sale and Leaseback
Section 7.12
"" means (a) with respect to disbursements and payments in Dollars, immediately available funds, and (b) with respect to disbursements and payments in an Alternative Currency, same day or other funds as may be determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to be customary in the place of disbursement or payment for the settlement of international banking transactions in the relevant Alternative Currency.
Same Day Funds
"" means a postsecondary institution of higher education and its additional locations, taken together, operated by DeVry or any Subsidiary.
School
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
"" has the meaning specified in the Pledge Agreement.
Secured Parties
"" means the chief executive officer, president or chief financial officer of DeVry.
Senior Responsible Officer
"" means, as of any date of determination, consolidated shareholders' equity of DeVry and its Subsidiaries as of that date determined in accordance with GAAP.
Shareholders' Equity
"" means at any time an Alternative Currency, other than the currency of a country that is a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development at such time located in North America or Europe.
Special Notice Currency
"" means any Swap Contract between any Loan Party and any Lender or any Affiliate of any Lender.
Specified Swap Contract
 
 
20
 
 
"" for a currency means the rate determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as applicable, to be the rate quoted by the Person acting in such capacity as the spot rate for the purchase by such Person of such currency with another currency through its principal foreign exchange trading office at approximately 11:00 a.m. on the date two Business Days prior to the date as of which the foreign exchange computation is made; provided that the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer may obtain such spot rate from another financial institution designated by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer if the Person acting in such capacity does not have as of the date of determination a spot buying rate for any such currency; and provided further that the L/C Issuer may use such spot rate quoted on the date as of which the foreign exchange computation is made in the case of any Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency.
Spot Rate
"" and "" mean the lawful currency of the United Kingdom.
Sterling
"" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person.  Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of DeVry.
Subsidiary
"" has the meaning specified in .
Supplemental Lender
Section 2.14(a)
"" means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master agreement, together with any related schedules, a "Master Agreement"), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
Swap Contract
"" means, in respect of any one or more Swap Contracts, after taking into account the effect of any legally enforceable netting agreement relating to such Swap Contracts, (a) for any date on or after the date such Swap Contracts have been closed out and termination value(s) determined in accordance therewith, such termination value(s), and (b) for any date prior to the date referenced in clause (a), the amount(s) determined as the mark-to-market value(s) for such Swap Contracts, as determined based upon one or more mid-market or other readily available quotations provided by any recognized dealer in such Swap Contracts (which may include a Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender).
Swap Termination Value
"" means a borrowing of a Swing Line Loan pursuant to .
Swing Line Borrowing
Section 2.4
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as provider of Swing Line Loans, or any successor swing line lender hereunder.
Swing Line Lender
 
 
21
 
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
Swing Line Loan
Section 2.4(a)
"" means a notice of a Swing Line Borrowing pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Swing Line Loan Notice
Section 2.4(b)
Exhibit B
"" means an amount equal to the lesser of (a) $20,000,000 and (b) the Aggregate Commitments.  The Swing Line Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Swing Line Sublimit
"" means the monetary obligation of a Person under (a) a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax retention lease, or (b) an agreement for the use or possession of property creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person but which, upon the insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person, would be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment).
Synthetic Lease Obligation
"" means any day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) payment system (or, if such payment system ceases to be operative, such other payment system (if any) determined by the Administrative Agent to be a suitable replacement) is open for the settlement of payments in Euro.
TARGET Day
"" has the meaning specified in .
Taxes
Section 3.1(a)
"" means Title IV of HEA, and any amendments or successor statutes thereto.
Title IV
"" means the Title IV Programs as defined in Section 668.1(c) of 34 C.F.R.
Title IV Programs
"" means $25,000,000.
Threshold Amount
"" means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Loans and all L/C Obligations.
Total Outstandings
"" means, with respect to a Revolving Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurocurrency Rate Loan.
Type
"" and "" mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.3(c)(i)
"" means any U.S. Subsidiary, substantially all of the assets of which consist of Equity Interests of one or more Offshore Subsidiaries; that such U.S. Subsidiary shall only constitute a "U.S. Foreign Holdco" if DeVry reasonably determines that the guaranty of the Obligations by, or the pledge of stock of, such U.S. Subsidiary could result in adverse tax consequences.
U.S. Foreign Holdco
provided
"" means each U.S. Subsidiary which has executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent a U.S. Guaranty.
U.S. Guarantor
"" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States; , , that any Subsidiary organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States which is owned by a Designated Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed an Offshore Subsidiary.
U.S. Subsidiary
provided
however
 
 
22
 
 
"" means a guaranty substantially in the form of .
U.S. Subsidiary Guaranty
Exhibit F-1
"" of a Person means (i) any Subsidiary all of the outstanding voting securities of which shall at the time be owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or one or more Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries of such Person, or by such Person and one or more Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries of such Person, or (ii) any partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture or similar business organization 100% of the ownership interests having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be so owned or controlled.
Wholly-Owned Subsidiary
           .
1
.
2
Other Interpretive Provisions
With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
(a)           The meanings of defined terms are equally applicable to the singular and plural forms of the defined terms.
(b)           (i)          The words "herein," "hereto," "hereof" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document shall refer to such Loan Document as a whole and not to any particular provision thereof.
(i)           Article, Section, Exhibit and Schedule references are to the Loan Document in which such reference appears.
(ii)          The term "including" is by way of example and not limitation.
(iii)         The term "documents" includes any and all instruments, documents, agreements, certificates, notices, reports, financial statements and other writings, however evidenced, whether in physical or electronic form.
(c)           In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including;" the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding;" and the word "through" means "to and including."
(d)           Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
1.3           .
Accounting Terms
(a)           All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis, as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the Audited Financial Statements, except as otherwise specifically prescribed herein.
(b)           If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either DeVry or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and DeVry shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in
 
 
23
 
 
GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); provided that, until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) DeVry shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
           .
1
.
4
Rounding
Any financial ratios required to be maintained by DeVry pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
           .
1
.
5
References to Agreements and Laws
Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, (a) references to Organization Documents, agreements (including the Loan Documents) and other contractual instruments shall be deemed to include all subsequent amendments, restatements, extensions, supplements and other modifications thereto, but only to the extent that such amendments, restatements, extensions, supplements and other modifications are not prohibited by any Loan Document; and (b) references to any Law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing, supplementing or interpreting such Law.
           .
1
.
6
Times of Day
Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Central time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
           .
1
.
7
Exchange Rates; Currency Equivalents
(a)          The Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as applicable, shall determine the Spot Rates as of each Revaluation Date to be used for calculating Dollar Equivalent amounts of Credit Extensions and Outstanding Amounts denominated in Alternative Currencies.  Such Spot Rates shall become effective as of such Revaluation Date and shall be the Spot Rates employed in converting any amounts between the applicable currencies until the next Revaluation Date to occur.  Except for purposes of financial statements delivered by Loan Parties hereunder or calculating financial covenants hereunder or except as otherwise provided herein, the applicable amount of any currency (other than Dollars) for purposes of the Loan Documents shall be such Dollar Equivalent amount as so determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as applicable.
(b)           Wherever in this Agreement in connection with a Revolving Borrowing, conversion, continuation or prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan or the issuance, amendment or extension of a Letter of Credit, an amount, such as a required minimum or multiple amount, is expressed in Dollars, but such Revolving Borrowing, Eurocurrency Rate Loan or Letter of Credit is denominated in an Alternative Currency, such amount shall be the relevant Alternative Currency Equivalent of such Dollar amount (rounded to the nearest unit of such Alternative Currency, with 0.5 of a unit being rounded upward), as determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be.
 
 
24
 
 
           .
1
.
8
Additional Alternative Currencies
(a)            DeVry may from time to time request that Eurocurrency Rate Loans be made and/or Letters of Credit be issued in a currency other than those specifically listed in the definition of "Alternative Currency;" provided that such requested currency is a lawful currency (other than Dollars) that is readily available and freely transferable and convertible into Dollars.  In the case of any such request with respect to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, such request shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders; and in the case of any such request with respect to the issuance of Letters of Credit, such request shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer.
(b)           Any such request shall be made to the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 p.m., 15 Business Days prior to the date of the desired Credit Extension (or such other time or date as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent and, in the case of any such request pertaining to Letters of Credit, the L/C Issuer, in its or their sole discretion).  In the case of any such request pertaining to Eurocurrency Rate Loans, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender thereof; and in the case of any such request pertaining to Letters of Credit, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the L/C Issuer thereof.  Each Lender (in the case of any such request pertaining to Eurocurrency Rate Loans) or the L/C Issuer (in the case of a request pertaining to Letters of Credit) shall notify the Administrative Agent, not later than 11:00 a.m., five Business Days after receipt of such request whether or not it consents, in its sole discretion, to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Loans or the issuance of Letters of Credit, as the case may be, in such requested currency.
(c)           Any failure by a Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to respond to such request within the time period specified in the preceding sentence shall be deemed to be a refusal by such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to permit Eurocurrency Rate Loans to be made or Letters of Credit to be issued in such requested currency.  If the Administrative Agent and all the Lenders consent to making Eurocurrency Rate Loans in such requested currency, the Administrative Agent shall so notify DeVry and such currency shall thereupon be deemed for all purposes to be an Alternative Currency hereunder for purposes of any Revolving Borrowings of Eurocurrency Rate Loans; and if the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer consent to the issuance of Letters of Credit in such requested currency, the Administrative Agent shall so notify DeVry and such currency shall thereupon be deemed for all purposes to be an Alternative Currency hereunder for purposes of any Letter of Credit issuances.  If the Administrative Agent shall fail to obtain consent to any request for an additional currency under this , the Administrative Agent shall promptly so notify DeVry.
Section 1.8
           .
1
.
9
Change of Currency
(a)           Each obligation of the Borrowers to make a payment denominated in the national currency unit of any member state of the European Union that adopts the Euro as its lawful currency after the date hereof shall be redenominated into Euro at the time of such adoption (in accordance with the EMU Legislation).  If, in relation to the currency of any such member state, the basis of accrual of interest expressed in this Agreement in respect of that currency shall be inconsistent with any convention or practice in the London interbank market for the basis of accrual of interest in respect of the Euro, such expressed basis shall be replaced by such convention or practice with effect from the date on which such member state adopts the Euro as its lawful currency; provided that if any Revolving Borrowing in the currency of such member state is outstanding immediately prior to such date, such replacement shall take effect, with respect to such Revolving Borrowing, at the end of the then current Interest Period.
 
 
25
 
 
(b)           Each provision of this Agreement shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent may from time to time specify to be appropriate to reflect the adoption of the Euro by any member state of the European Union and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the Euro.
(c)           Each provision of this Agreement also shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent may from time to time specify to be appropriate to reflect a change in currency of any other country and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the change in currency.
           .
1
.
10
Letter of Credit Amounts
Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to the amount of a Letter of Credit at any time shall be deemed to be the Dollar Equivalent of the stated amount of such Letter of Credit in effect at such time; provided, however, that with respect to any Letter of Credit that, by its terms or the terms of any Issuer Document related thereto, provides for one or more automatic increases in the stated amount thereof, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be the Dollar Equivalent of the maximum stated amount of such Letter of Credit after giving effect to all such increases, whether or not such maximum stated amount is in effect at such time.
           .
2
.
1
Revolving Loans
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrowers or any of them in Dollars or in one or more Alternative Currencies from time to time, on any Business Day during the Availability Period, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Borrowing:
Revolving Loan
provided
however
(a)           the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments,
(b)           the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Revolving Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment;
plus
plus
(c)           the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Revolving Loans made to the Designated Borrowers the Outstanding Amount of the L/C Obligations of the Designated Borrowers shall not exceed the Offshore Sublimit, and
plus
(d)           the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Revolving Loans and L/C Obligations denominated in Alternative Currencies shall not exceed the Alternative Currency Sublimit.
Within the limits of each Lender's Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, each Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this .  Revolving Loans may be Base Rate Loans or Eurocurrency Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
Section 2.1
Section 2.5
Section 2.1
 
 
26
 
 
           .
2
.
2
Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Revolving Loans
(a)           Each Revolving Borrowing, each conversion of Revolving Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be made upon the applicable Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone.  Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m.:
(i)           three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars or of any conversion of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars to Base Rate Revolving Loans,
(ii)           four Business Days (or five Business Days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) prior to the requested date of any Borrowing or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, and
(iii)           on the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Revolving Loans.
Each telephonic notice by the applicable Borrower pursuant to this must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Revolving Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the applicable Borrower.  Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof.  Except as provided in and , each Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Revolving Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof.  Each Revolving Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify:
Section 2.2(a)
Sections 2.3(c)
2.4(c)
(i)           whether the applicable Borrower is requesting a Borrowing, a conversion of Revolving Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans,
(ii)           the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day),
(iii)           the principal amount of Revolving Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued,
(iv)           the Type of Revolving Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Revolving Loans are to be converted,
(v)           if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto, and
(vi)           the currency of the Revolving Loans to be borrowed.
If a Borrower fails to specify a currency in a Revolving Loan Notice requesting a Borrowing, then the Revolving Loans so requested shall be made in Dollars.  If a Borrower fails to specify a Type of Revolving Loan in a Revolving Loan Notice or if a Borrower fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the related Revolving Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans; , , that in the case of a failure to timely request a continuation of Revolving Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency, such Loans shall be continued as Eurocurrency Rate
provided
however
 
 
27
 
 
Loans in their original currency with an Interest Period of one month.  Any such automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurocurrency Rate Loans.  If a Borrower requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in any such Revolving Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month.  No Revolving Loan may be converted into or continued as a Revolving Loan denominated in a different currency, but instead must be prepaid in the original currency of such Revolving Loan and reborrowed in the other currency.
(b)           Following receipt of a Revolving Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount (and currency) of its Pro Rata Share of the applicable Revolving Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the applicable Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans or continuation of Revolving Loans denominated in a currency other than Dollars, in each case as described in the preceding subsection.  In the case of a Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Revolving Loan available to the Administrative Agent in Same Day Funds at the Administrative Agent's Office for the applicable currency not later than 12:00 (noon) in the case of any Revolving Loan denominated in Dollars, and not later than the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent in the case of any Revolving Loan in an Alternative Currency, in each case on the Business Day specified in the applicable Revolving Loan Notice.  Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Credit Extension, ), the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the applicable Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of such Borrower on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by such Borrower; , , that if, on the date the Revolving Loan Notice with respect to such Borrowing is given by DeVry, there are Swing Line Loans or L/C Borrowings outstanding, then the proceeds of such Borrowing denominated in Dollars shall be applied, first, to the payment in full of any such L/C Borrowings, second, to the payment in full of any such Swing Line Loans, and third, to DeVry as provided above.
Section 4.2
Section 4.1
provided
however
(c)           Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurocurrency Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of the Interest Period for such Eurocurrency Rate Loan.  During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurocurrency Rate Loans (whether in Dollars or any Alternative Currency) without the consent of the Required Lenders, and the Required Lenders may demand that any or all of the then outstanding Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency be prepaid, or redenominated into Dollars in the amount of the Dollar Equivalent thereof, on the last day of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto.
(d)           The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrowers and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurocurrency Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate.  At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrowers and the Lenders of any change in Bank of America's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
(e)           After giving effect to all Borrowings, all conversions of Revolving Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Revolving Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than ten Interest Periods in effect with respect to Revolving Loans.
 
 
28
 
 
           .
2
.
3
Letters of Credit
(a)           .
The Letter of Credit Commitment
(i)           Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, (A) the L/C Issuer agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Lenders set forth in this , (1) from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Closing Date until the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, to issue Letters of Credit denominated in Dollars or in one or more Alternative Currencies for the account of any Borrower, and to amend or extend Letters of Credit previously issued by it in accordance with subsection 2.3(b) below, and (2) to honor drawings under such Letters of Credit; and (B) the Lenders severally agree to participate in such Letters of Credit; that the L/C Issuer shall not be obligated to make any L/C Credit Extension with respect to any Letter of Credit, and no Lender shall be obligated to participate in any Letter of Credit if as of the date of such L/C Credit Extension:
Section 2.3
provided
(v)           the Total Outstandings would exceed the Aggregate Commitments;
(w)           the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Revolving Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans would exceed such Lender's Commitment;
plus
plus
(x)           the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Revolving Loans made to the Designated Borrowers, the Outstanding Amount of the L/C Obligations of the Designated Borrowers exceeds the Offshore Sublimit;
plus
(y)           the Outstanding Amount of the L/C Obligations would exceed the Letter of Credit Sublimit; or
(z)           the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Revolving Loans and L/C Obligations denominated in Alternative Currencies shall not exceed the Alternative Currency Sublimit.
Each request by a Borrower for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be a representation by such Borrower that the L/C Credit Extension so requested complies with the conditions set forth in the proviso to the preceding sentence.  Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the terms and conditions hereof, each Borrower's ability to obtain Letters of Credit shall be fully revolving, and accordingly each Borrower may, during the foregoing period, obtain Letters of Credit to replace Letters of Credit that have expired or that have been drawn upon and reimbursed.  All Existing Letters of Credit shall be deemed to have been issued pursuant hereto, and from and after the Closing Date shall be subject to and governed by the terms and conditions hereof.
(ii)           The L/C Issuer shall not issue any Letter of Credit if the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur after the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, unless all the Lenders have approved such expiry date; that the L/C Issuer may issue Letters of Credit with an expiry date after the Letter of Credit Expiration Date (but the L/C Issuer shall have no obligation to issue) without such consent so long as DeVry
provided
 
 
29
 
 
or the applicable Designated Borrower Cash Collateralizes such Letter of Credit in an amount equal to at least 103% of the face amount of such Letter of Credit prior to the Letter of Credit Expiration Date in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.  Each Borrower hereby agrees that on or before the Letter of Credit Expiration Date DeVry or such Designated Borrower shall Cash Collateralize any Letter of Credit existing on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date issued for such Borrowers account in an amount equal to at least 103% of the face amount of such Letter of Credit.  For the avoidance of doubt, the parties hereto agree that the obligations of the Lenders hereunder to reimburse the L/C Issuer for any Unreimbursed Amount with respect to any Letter of Credit shall terminate on the Maturity Date with respect to drawings occurring after that date.
(iii)           The L/C Issuer shall not be under any obligation to issue any Letter of Credit if:
(A)           any order, judgment or decree of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator shall by its terms purport to enjoin or restrain the L/C Issuer from issuing such Letter of Credit, or any Law applicable to the L/C Issuer or any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over the L/C Issuer shall prohibit, or request that the L/C Issuer refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit generally or such Letter of Credit in particular or shall impose upon the L/C Issuer with respect to such Letter of Credit any restriction, reserve or capital requirement (for which the L/C Issuer is not otherwise compensated hereunder) not in effect on the Closing Date, or shall impose upon the L/C Issuer any unreimbursed loss, cost or expense which was not applicable on the Closing Date and which the L/C Issuer in good faith deems material to it;
(B)           the issuance of such Letter of Credit would violate one or more policies of the L/C Issuer;
(C)           such Letter of Credit is in an initial amount less than the Dollar Equivalent of $100,000;
(D)           except as otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer, such Letter of Credit is to be denominated in a currency other than Dollars or an Alternative Currency;
(E)           the L/C Issuer does not as of the issuance date of such requested Letter of Credit issue Letters of Credit in the requested currency; or
(F)           any Lender is at that time a Defaulting Lender, unless the L/C Issuer has entered into arrangements, including the delivery of Cash Collateral, satisfactory to the L/C Issuer (in its sole discretion) with DeVry or such Defaulting Lender to eliminate the L/C Issuer's actual or potential Fronting Exposure (after giving effect to ) with respect to the Defaulting Lender arising from either the Letter of Credit then proposed to be issued or that Letter of Credit and all other L/C Obligations as to which the L/C Issuer has actual or potential Fronting Exposure, as it may elect in its sole discretion.
Section 2.16(a)(iv)
 
 
30
 
 
(iv)           The L/C Issuer shall be under no obligation to amend any Letter of Credit if (A) the L/C Issuer would have no obligation at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof, or (B) the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit does not accept the proposed amendment to such Letter of Credit.
(v)           The L/C Issuer shall act on behalf of the Lenders with respect to any Letters of Credit issued by it and the documents associated therewith, the L/C Issuer shall have all of the benefits and immunities (A) as between the L/C Issuer and the Lenders, provided to the Administrative Agent in with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by the L/C Issuer in connection with Letters of Credit issued by it or proposed to be issued by it and Issuer Documents pertaining to such Letters of Credit as fully as if the term "Administrative Agent" as used in included the L/C Issuer with respect to such acts or omissions, and (B) as additionally provided herein with respect to the L/C Issuer.
Article IX
Article IX
(b)           .
Procedures for Issuance and Amendment of Letters of Credit; Auto-Extension Letters of Credit
(i)           Each Letter of Credit shall be issued or amended, as the case may be, upon the request of the applicable Borrower delivered to the L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) in the form of a Letter of Credit Application, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of such Borrower.  Such Letter of Credit Application must be received by the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m. at least two Business Days (or such later date and time as the L/C Issuer may agree in a particular instance in its sole discretion) prior to the proposed issuance date or date of amendment, as the case may be.  In the case of a request for an initial issuance of a Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to the L/C Issuer: (A) the proposed issuance date of the requested Letter of Credit (which shall be a Business Day); (B) the amount and currency thereof; (C) the expiry date thereof; (D) the name and address of the beneficiary thereof; (E) the documents to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (F) the full text of any certificate to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (G) the purpose and nature of the requested Letter of Credit; and (H) such other matters as the L/C Issuer may require.  In the case of a request for an amendment of any outstanding Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to the L/C Issuer (A) the Letter of Credit to be amended; (B) the proposed date of amendment thereof (which shall be a Business Day); (C) the nature of the proposed amendment; and (D) such other matters as the L/C Issuer may require.  Additionally, the Borrowers shall furnish to the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent such other documents and information pertaining to such requested Letter of Credit issuance or amendment, including any Issuer Documents, as the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent may require.
(ii)           Promptly after receipt of any Letter of Credit Application of a Borrower, the L/C Issuer will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has received a copy of such Letter of Credit Application and, if not, the L/C Issuer will provide the Administrative Agent with a copy thereof.  Unless the L/C Issuer has received written notice from any Lender, the Administrative Agent or a Borrower, at least one Business Day prior to the requested date of issuance or amendment of the applicable Letter of Credit, that one or more applicable conditions contained in shall not be satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions
Article IV
 
 
31
 
 
hereof, the L/C Issuer shall, on the requested date, issue a Letter of Credit for the account of the requesting Borrower or enter into the applicable amendment, as the case may be, in each case in accordance with the L/C Issuer's usual and customary business practices.  Immediately upon the issuance of each Letter of Credit, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the L/C Issuer a risk participation in such Letter of Credit in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Pro Rata Share times the amount of such Letter of Credit.
(iii)           If a Borrower so requests in any applicable Letter of Credit Application, the L/C Issuer may, in its sole and absolute discretion, agree to issue a Letter of Credit that has automatic extension provisions (each, an ""); provided that any such Auto-Extension Letter of Credit must permit the L/C Issuer to prevent any such extension at least once in each twelve-month period (commencing with the date of issuance of such Letter of Credit) by giving prior notice to the beneficiary thereof not later than a day (the "") in each such twelve-month period to be agreed upon at the time such Letter of Credit is issued.  Unless otherwise directed by the L/C Issuer, no Borrower shall be required to make a specific request to the L/C Issuer for any such extension.  Once an Auto- Extension Letter of Credit has been issued, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) the L/C Issuer to permit the extension of such Letter of Credit at any time to an expiry date not later than the Letter of Credit Expiration Date; , , that the L/C Issuer shall not permit any such extension if (A) the L/C Issuer has determined that it would not be permitted to or would have no obligation at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its revised form (as extended) under the terms hereof (by reason of the provisions of or otherwise), or (B) it has received notice (which may be by telephone or in writing) on or before the day that is two Business Days before the Nonextension Notice Date (1) from the Administrative Agent that the Required Lenders have elected not to permit such extension or (2) from the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the related Borrower that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied, and in each case directing the L/C Issuer not to permit such extension.
Auto-Extension Letter of Credit
Nonextension Notice Date
provided
however
Section 2.3(a)
Section 4.2
(iv)           Promptly after its delivery of any Letter of Credit or any amendment to a Letter of Credit to an advising bank with respect thereto or to the beneficiary thereof, the L/C Issuer will also deliver to the applicable Borrower and the Administrative Agent a true and complete copy of such Letter of Credit or amendment.
(c)           .
Drawings and Reimbursements; Funding of Participations
(i)           Upon receipt from the beneficiary of any Letter of Credit of any notice of a drawing under such Letter of Credit, the L/C Issuer shall notify the applicable Borrower and the Administrative Agent thereof.  In the case of a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency, the applicable Borrower shall reimburse the L/C Issuer in such Alternative Currency, unless (A) the L/C Issuer (at its option) shall have specified in such notice that it will require reimbursement in Dollars, or (B) in the absence of any such requirement for reimbursement in Dollars, the applicable Borrower shall have notified the L/C Issuer promptly following receipt of the notice of drawing that it will reimburse the L/C Issuer in Dollars.  In the case of any such reimbursement in Dollars of a drawing under a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency, the L/C Issuer shall notify the applicable Borrower of the Dollar Equivalent of the amount of the drawing promptly following the determination thereof.  Not later than 11:00 a.m. on the date of any payment by the L/C Issuer under a Letter of Credit to be reimbursed in Dollars, or the
 
 
32
 
 
Applicable Time on the date of any payment by the L/C Issuer under a Letter of Credit to be reimbursed in an Alternative Currency (each such date, an ""), the applicable Borrower shall reimburse the L/C Issuer through the Administrative Agent in an amount equal to the amount of such drawing and in the applicable currency.  If a Borrower fails to so reimburse the L/C Issuer by such time, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the Honor Date, the amount of the unreimbursed drawing (expressed in Dollars) in the amount of the Dollar Equivalent thereof, in the case of a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency (the ""), and the amount of such Lender's Pro Rata Share thereof.  In such event, such Borrower shall be deemed to have requested a Revolving Borrowing of Base Rate Loans to be disbursed on the Honor Date in an amount equal to the Unreimbursed Amount, without regard to the minimum and multiples specified in for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the amount of the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in (other than the delivery of a Revolving Loan Notice).  Any notice given by the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent pursuant to this may be given by telephone if immediately confirmed in writing; provided that the lack of such an immediate confirmation shall not affect the conclusiveness or binding effect of such notice.
Honor Date
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.2
Section 4.2
Section 2.3(c)(i)
(ii)           Each Lender shall upon any notice pursuant to make funds available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer in Dollars, at the Administrative Agent's Office for Dollar-denominated payments in an amount equal to its Pro Rata Share of the Unreimbursed Amount not later than 12:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in such notice by the Administrative Agent, whereupon, subject to the provisions of , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Revolving Loan to the related Borrower in such amount.  The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the L/C Issuer in Dollars.
Section 2.3(c)(i)
Section 2.3(c)(iii)
(iii)           With respect to any Unreimbursed Amount that is not fully refinanced by a Borrowing of Base Rate Loans because the conditions set forth in cannot be satisfied or for any other reason, the applicable Borrower shall be deemed to have incurred from the L/C Issuer an L/C Borrowing in the amount of the Unreimbursed Amount that is not so refinanced, which L/C Borrowing shall be due and payable on demand (together with interest) and shall bear interest at the Default Rate.  In such event, each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer pursuant to shall be deemed payment in respect of its participation in such L/C Borrowing and shall constitute an L/C Advance from such Lender in satisfaction of its participation obligation under this .
Section 4.2
Section 2.3(c)(ii)
Section 2.3
(iv)           Until each Lender funds its Revolving Loan or L/C Advance pursuant to this to reimburse the L/C Issuer for any amount drawn under any Letter of Credit, interest in respect of such Lender's Pro Rata Share of such amount shall be solely for the account of the L/C Issuer.
Section 2.3(c)
(v)           Each Lender's obligation to make Revolving Loans or L/C Advances to reimburse the L/C Issuer for amounts drawn under Letters of Credit, as contemplated by this , shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the L/C Issuer, any Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever; (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any
Section 2.3(c)
 
 
33
 
 
other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Lender's obligation to make Revolving Loans pursuant to this is subject to the conditions set forth in (other than delivery of a Revolving Loan Notice).  No such making of an L/C Advance shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of any Borrower to reimburse the L/C Issuer for the amount of any payment made by the L/C Issuer under any Letter of Credit, together with interest as provided herein.
provided
however
Section 2.3(c)
Section 4.2
(vi)           If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this by the time specified in , then, without limiting the other provisions of this Agreement, the L/C Issuer shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the L/C Issuer at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect, any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the L/C Issuer in connection with the foregoing.  If such Lender pays such amount (with interest and fees as aforesaid), the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Revolving Loan included in the relevant Borrowing or L/C Advance in respect of the relevant L/C Borrowing, as the case may be.  A certificate of the L/C Issuer submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (vi) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 2.3(c)
Section 2.3(c)(ii)
plus
(d)           .
Repayment of Participations
(i)           At any time after the L/C Issuer has made a payment under any Letter of Credit and has received from any Lender such Lender's L/C Advance in respect of such payment in accordance with , if the Administrative Agent receives for the account of the L/C Issuer any payment in respect of the related Unreimbursed Amount or interest thereon (whether directly from the related Borrower or otherwise, including proceeds of Cash Collateral applied thereto by the Administrative Agent), the Administrative Agent will distribute to such Lender its Pro Rata Share thereof in the same funds as those received by the Administrative Agent.
Section 2.3(c)
(ii)           If any payment received by the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer pursuant to is required to be returned under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the L/C Issuer in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer its Pro Rata Share thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned by such Lender, at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect.  The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 2.3(c)(i)
Section 11.6
plus
(e)           .  The obligation of each Borrower to reimburse the L/C Issuer for each drawing under each Letter of Credit issued for its account and to repay each L/C Borrowing shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under all circumstances, including the following:
Obligations Absolute
 
 
34
 
 
(i)           any lack of validity or enforceability of such Letter of Credit, this Agreement, or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto;
(ii)           the existence of any claim, counterclaim, set-off, defense or other right that such Borrower may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit (or any Person for whom any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), the L/C Issuer or any other Person, whether in connection with this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby or by such Letter of Credit or any agreement or instrument relating thereto, or any unrelated transaction;
(iii)           any draft, demand, certificate or other document presented under such Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect; or any loss or delay in the transmission or otherwise of any document required in order to make a drawing under such Letter of Credit;
(iv)           any payment by the L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit; or any payment made by the L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit to any Person purporting to be a trustee in bankruptcy, debtor-in-possession, assignee for the benefit of creditors, liquidator, receiver or other representative of or successor to any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit, including any arising in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law;
(v)           any adverse change in the relevant exchange rates or in the availability of the relevant Alternative Currency to the Borrowers, or in the relevant currency markets generally; or
(vi)           any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, including any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, such Borrower.
Each Borrower shall promptly examine a copy of each Letter of Credit and each amendment thereto that is delivered to it and, in the event of any claim of noncompliance with such Borrower's instructions or other irregularity, such Borrower will immediately notify the L/C Issuer.  Such Borrower shall be conclusively deemed to have waived any such claim against the L/C Issuer and its correspondents unless such notice is given as aforesaid.
(f)           .  Each Lender and each Borrower agree that, in paying any drawing under a Letter of Credit, the L/C Issuer shall not have any responsibility to obtain any document (other than any sight draft, certificates and documents expressly required by the Letter of Credit) or to ascertain or inquire as to the validity or accuracy of any such document or the authority of the Person executing or delivering any such document.  None of the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the L/C Issuer shall be liable to any Lender for (i) any action taken or omitted in connection herewith at the request or with the approval of the Lenders or the Required Lenders, as applicable; (ii) any action taken or omitted in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct; or (iii) the due execution, effectiveness, validity or enforceability of any document or instrument related to any Letter of Credit or Issuer Document.  Each Borrower hereby assumes all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee with respect to its use of any Letter of Credit; , , that this assumption is not intended to, and shall not, preclude such
Role of L/C Issuer
provided
however
 
 
35
 
 
Borrower from pursuing such rights and remedies as it may have against the beneficiary or transferee at law or under any other agreement.  None of the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the L/C Issuer shall be liable or responsible for any of the matters described in clauses (i) through (v) of ; , , that anything in such clauses to the contrary notwithstanding, the applicable Borrower may have a claim against the L/C Issuer, and the L/C Issuer may be liable to such Borrower, to the extent, but only to the extent, of any direct, as opposed to consequential or exemplary, damages suffered by such Borrower which such Borrower proves were caused by the L/C Issuer's willful misconduct or gross negligence or the L/C Issuer's willful failure to pay under any Letter of Credit after the presentation to it by the beneficiary of a sight draft and certificate(s) strictly complying with the terms and conditions of a Letter of Credit.  In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, the L/C Issuer may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, and the L/C Issuer shall not be responsible for the validity or sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or purporting to transfer or assign a Letter of Credit or the rights or benefits thereunder or proceeds thereof, in whole or in part, which may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason.
Section 2.3(e)
provided
however
(g)           .  Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the L/C Issuer and the applicable Borrower when a Letter of Credit is issued (including any such agreement applicable to any Existing Letter of Credit), the rules of the ISP shall apply to each standby Letter of Credit.
Applicability of ISP
(h)           .  Each Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Pro Rata Share, in Dollars a letter of credit fee (the "") for each Letter of Credit issued for the account of such Borrower, such fee to be equal to the Applicable Rate times the Dollar Equivalent of the daily maximum amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit; , , any Letter of Credit Fees otherwise payable for the account of a Defaulting Lender with respect to any Letter of Credit as to which such Defaulting Lender has not provided Cash Collateral satisfactory to the L/C Issuer pursuant to this shall be payable, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable Law, to the other Lenders in accordance with the upward adjustments in their respective Pro Rata Shares allocable to such Letter of Credit pursuant to , with the balance of such fee, if any, payable to the L/C Issuer for its own account to the extent the applicable Borrower has not provided Cash Collateral pursuant to (or in the event the applicable Borrower has provided such Cash Collateral, such balance shall be deemed waived and shall not be payable by the applicable Borrower).  For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with .    Such Letter of Credit Fees shall be computed on a quarterly basis in arrears.  After the end of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Fees shall be due and payable one Business Day after receipt by the Borrowers of an invoice for the same.  If there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the daily amount available to be drawn under of each Letter of Credit shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, all Letter of Credit Fees shall accrue at the Default Rate.
Letter of Credit Fees
Letter of Credit Fee
provided
however
Section 2.3
Section 2.16(a)(iv)
Section 2.14
Section 1.10
 
 
36
 
 
(i)           .  Each Borrower shall pay directly to the L/C Issuer for its own account a fronting fee, payable in Dollars with respect to each Letter of Credit in the amounts and at the times specified in the Engagement Letter (such fronting fee to be based on the Dollar Equivalent amount of the Letters of Credit); , , that to the extent the applicable Borrower has provided Cash Collateral pursuant to , such Cash Collateralized L/C Obligations shall not be subject to any fronting fee.  For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with .  In addition, each Borrower shall pay directly to the L/C Issuer for its own account the customary issuance, presentation, amendment and other processing fees, and other standard costs and charges, of the L/C Issuer relating to letters of credit as from time to time in effect.  Such customary fees and standard costs and charges are due and payable one Business Day after receipt by the Borrowers of an invoice for the same and are nonrefundable.
Fronting Fee and Documentary and Processing Charges Payable to L/C Issuer
provided
however
Section 2.14
Section 1.10
(j)           .  In the event of any conflict between the terms hereof and the terms of any Issuer Document, the terms hereof shall control.
Conflict with Issuer Documents
(k)           .  If (i) the L/C Issuer shall fail to issue any Letters of Credit by reason of the conditions specified in or , or (ii) the L/C Issuer shall cease to have a minimum long or short term credit rating of A or better from S&P or a long or short term rating of A-3 or better from Moody's, the Borrowers may remove the L/C Issuer by notice to the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders.  No removal of the L/C Issuer shall be effective prior to the acceptance by another Lender hereunder of an appointment as L/C Issuer.  Upon the acceptance of an appointment as L/C Issuer, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the interests, rights and obligations of the retiring L/C Issuer and the retiring L/C Issuer shall be discharged from its obligations to issue additional Letters of Credit hereunder.  At the time such removal shall become effective, the Borrowers shall pay all accrued and unpaid fees pursuant to and .  The acceptance of an appointment as L/C Issuer hereunder by a successor Lender shall be evidenced by an agreement entered into by such successor, in a form satisfactory to the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent, and, from and after the effective date of such agreement, (a) such successor Lender shall have all the rights and obligations of the previous L/C Issuer under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and (b) references herein and in the other Loan Documents to the term "" shall be deemed to refer to such successor or to any previous L/C Issuer, or to such successor and all previous L/C Issuers, as the context shall require.  After the removal of the L/C Issuer hereunder, the retiring L/C Issuer shall remain a party hereto and shall continue to have all the rights and obligations of an L/C Issuer under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents with respect to Letters of Credit issued by it prior to such resignation or removal, but shall not be required to issue additional Letters of Credit.
Removal of L/C Issuer
Section 2.3(a)(ii)
2.3(a)(iii)(C)
Section 2.3(h)
(i)
L/C Issuer
           .
2
.
4
Swing Line Loans
(a)           .  Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swing Line Lender, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Lenders set forth in this , may in its sole discretion make loans in Dollars (each such loan, a "") to DeVry from time to time on any Business Day during the Availability Period in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of the Swing Line Sublimit  (notwithstanding the fact that such Swing Line Loans, when aggregated with the Pro Rata Share of the Outstanding Amount of Revolving Loans and L/C Obligations of the Lender acting as Swing Line Lender, may exceed the amount of such Lender's Commitment); , , that after giving effect to any Swing Line Loan,
Swing Line Facility
Section 2.4
Swing Line Loan
provided
however
(i)           the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments,
 
 
37
 
 
(ii)           the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Revolving Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans, shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment,
plus
plus
and , , that DeVry shall not use the proceeds of any Swing Line Loan to refinance any outstanding Swing Line Loan.  Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, DeVry may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this .  Each Swing Line Loan shall be a Base Rate Loan.  Immediately upon the making of a Swing Line Loan, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the Swing Line Lender a risk participation in such Swing Line Loan in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Pro Rata Share times the amount of such Swing Line Loan.
provided
further
Section 2.4
Section 2.5
Section 2.4
(b)           .  Each Swing Line Borrowing shall be made upon DeVry's irrevocable notice to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone.  Each such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 (noon) on the requested borrowing date, and shall specify (i) the amount to be borrowed, which shall be a minimum of $100,000 or, if less, the unused Swing Line Sublimit, and (ii) the requested borrowing date, which shall be a Business Day.  Each such telephonic notice must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent of a written Swing Line Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of DeVry.  Promptly after receipt by the Swing Line Lender of any telephonic Swing Line Loan Notice, the Swing Line Lender will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has also received such Swing Line Loan Notice and, if not, the Swing Line Lender will notify the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) of the contents thereof.  Unless the Swing Line Lender has received notice (by telephone or in writing) from the Administrative Agent (including at the request of any Lender) prior to 12:00 (noon) on the date of the proposed Swing Line Borrowing (A) directing the Swing Line Lender not to make such Swing Line Loan as a result of the limitations set forth in the proviso to the first sentence of , or (B) that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Swing Line Lender will, not later than 2:00 p.m. on the borrowing date specified in such Swing Line Loan Notice, make the amount of its Swing Line Loan available to DeVry at its office by crediting the account of DeVry on the books of the Swing Line Lender in immediately available funds.
Borrowing Procedures
Section 2.4(a)
Article IV
(c)           .
Refinancing of Swing Line Loans
(i)           The Swing Line Lender at any time in its sole and absolute discretion may request, on behalf of DeVry (which hereby irrevocably authorizes the Swing Line Lender to so request on its behalf), that each Lender make a Base Rate Revolving Loan in an amount equal to such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the amount of Swing Line Loans then outstanding.  Such request shall be made in writing (which written request shall be deemed to be a Revolving Loan Notice for purposes hereof) and in accordance with the requirements of , without regard to the minimum and multiples specified therein for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in .  The Swing Line Lender shall furnish DeVry with a copy of the applicable Revolving Loan Notice promptly after delivering such notice to the Administrative Agent.  Each Lender shall make an amount equal to its Pro Rata Share of the amount specified in such Revolving
Section 2.2
Section 4.2
 
 
38
 
 
Loan Notice available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds for the account of the Swing Line Lender at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 12:00 (noon) on the day specified in such Revolving Loan Notice, whereupon, subject to , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Revolving Loan to DeVry in such amount.  The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the Swing Line Lender.
Section 2.4(c)(ii)
(ii)           If for any reason any Swing Line Loan cannot be refinanced by such a Borrowing in accordance with , the request for Base Rate Revolving Loans submitted by the Swing Line Lender as set forth herein shall be deemed to be a request by the Swing Line Lender that each of the Lenders fund its risk participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan and each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender pursuant to shall be deemed payment in respect of such participation.
Section 2.4(c)(i)
Section 2.4(c)(i)
(iii)           If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this by the time specified in , the Swing Line Lender shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the Swing Line Lender at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect.  A certificate of the Swing Line Lender submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (iii) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 2.4(c)
Section 2.4(c)(i)
(iv)           Each Lender's obligation to make Revolving Loans or to purchase and fund risk participations in Swing Line Loans pursuant to this shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the Swing Line Lender, DeVry or any other Person for any reason whatsoever, (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Lender's obligation to make Revolving Loans pursuant to this is subject to the conditions set forth in .  No such funding of risk participations shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of DeVry to repay Swing Line Loans, together with interest as provided herein.
Section 2.4(c)
provided
however
Section 2.4(c)
Section 4.2
(v)           Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this , the Swing Line Lender shall not make any Swing Line Loan after the Swing Line Lender has received written notice from any Lender (which Lender shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders of such notice) specifying that a Default or an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, describing the nature thereof and stating that, as a result thereof, such Lender shall cease to make Revolving Loans or purchase participating interests with respect to Swing Line Loans, as the case may be, and no Lender will be required to make Revolving Loans or to purchase participating interests, as the case may be, with respect to any Swing Line Loan made after the Swing Line Lender has received such notice; , , that the Swing Line Lender may resume making Swing Line Loans and the obligations of the Lenders to make Revolving Loans and purchase such participating interests with respect to Swing Line Loans shall be reinstated upon the earlier to occur of (x) the date upon which such Lender
Section 2.4
provided
however
 
 
39
 
 
notifies the Swing Line Lender (with prompt written notice to the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders) that its prior notice is withdrawn and (y) the date upon which the Default or Event of Default specified in such notice is no longer continuing.
(d)           .
Repayment of Participations
(i)           At any time after any Lender has purchased and funded a risk participation in a Swing Line Loan, if the Swing Line Lender receives any payment on account of such Swing Line Loan, the Swing Line Lender will distribute to such Lender its Pro Rata Share of such payment (appropriately adjusted, in the case of interest payments, to reflect the period of time during which such Lender's risk participation was funded) in the same funds as those received by the Swing Line Lender.
(ii)           If any payment received by the Swing Line Lender in respect of principal or interest on any Swing Line Loan is required to be returned by the Swing Line Lender under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Swing Line Lender in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Swing Line Lender its Pro Rata Share thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned, at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate.  The Administrative Agent will make such demand upon the request of the Swing Line Lender.
Section 11.6
plus
(e)           .  The Swing Line Lender shall be responsible for invoicing DeVry for interest on the Swing Line Loans.  Until each Lender funds its Base Rate Revolving Loan or risk participation pursuant to this to refinance such Lender's Pro Rata Share of any Swing Line Loan, interest in respect of such Pro Rata Share shall be solely for the account of the Swing Line Lender.
Interest for Account of Swing Line Lender
Section 2.4
(f)           .  DeVry shall make all payments of principal and interest in respect of the Swing Line Loans directly to the Swing Line Lender.
Payments Directly to Swing Line Lender
(g)           .  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary (including ), all Swing Loans shall be made at the sole discretion of the Swing Line Lender.
Swing Loans in Administrative Agent's Discretion
Section 4.2
           .
2
.
5
Prepayments
(a)           The Borrowers may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Revolving Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; provided that (i) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m. (A) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars, (B) four Business Days (or five, in the case of prepayment of Loans denominated in Special Notice Currencies) prior to any date of prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, and (C) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Revolving Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; (iii) any prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies shall be in a minimum principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and (iv) any prepayment of Base Rate Revolving Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding.  Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of
 
 
40
 
 
such prepayment and the Type(s) of Revolving Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurocurrency Rate Loans are to be prepaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans.  The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Pro Rata Share of such prepayment.  If such notice is given by a Borrower, such Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.  Any prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest thereon, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to .  Subject to , each such prepayment shall be applied to the Revolving Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Pro Rata Shares.
Section 3.5
Section 2.16
(b)           DeVry may, upon notice to the Swing Line Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at any time or from time to time, voluntarily prepay Swing Line Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; provided that (i) such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 (noon) on the date of the prepayment, and (ii) any such prepayment shall be in a minimum principal amount of $100,000.  Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment.  If such notice is given by DeVry, DeVry shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.
(c)           If for any reason the Total Outstandings at any time exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect, DeVry shall immediately prepay (or cause to be prepaid) Loans in an aggregate amount equal to such excess; , , that DeVry shall not be required to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations pursuant to this unless after the prepayment in full of the Revolving Loans and Swing Line Loans the Total Outstandings exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect.
provided
however
Section 2.5(c)
(d)           If the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrowers at any time that the Outstanding Amount of all Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies at such time exceeds 103% of the Alternative Currency Sublimit then in effect, then, within two Business Days after receipt of such notice, DeVry shall prepay (or cause to be prepaid) Loans in an aggregate amount sufficient to reduce such Outstanding Amount as of such date of payment to an amount not to exceed 100% of the Alternative Currency Sublimit then in effect.
           .
2
.
6
Termination or Reduction of Commitments
(a)           DeVry may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Aggregate Commitments, or from time to time permanently reduce the Aggregate Commitments; that (i) any such notice shall be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m. five Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction, (ii) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, (iii) DeVry shall terminate or reduce the Aggregate Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayments hereunder, the Total Outstandings would exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (iv) if, after giving effect to any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments, the Alternative Currency Sublimit, the Letter of Credit Sublimit, the Offshore Sublimit or the Swing Line Sublimit exceeds the amount of the Aggregate Commitments, such Sublimit shall be automatically reduced by the amount of such excess.  The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Commitments.  Except as set forth in clause (iv) above, the amount of any such Aggregate Commitment reduction shall not be applied to the Alternative Currency Sublimit or the Letter of Credit Sublimit unless otherwise specified by DeVry.
provided
 
 
41
 
 
(b)           Any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments shall be applied to the Commitment of each Lender according to its Pro Rata Share.  All commitment fees accrued until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.
           .
2
.
7
Repayment of Loans
(a)           Each Borrower shall repay to the Lenders on the Maturity Date the aggregate principal amount of its Revolving Loans outstanding on such date.
(b)           DeVry shall repay each Swing Line Loan on the earlier to occur of (i) the date five Business Days after such Loan is made and (ii) the Maturity Date.
           .
2
.
8
Interest
(a)           Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) below, (i) each Eurocurrency Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Rate (in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan of any Lender which is lent from a Lending Office in the United Kingdom or a Participating Member State) the Mandatory Cost; (ii) each Base Rate Revolving Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate; and (iii) each Swing Line Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate.
plus
plus
plus
plus
(b)           If any principal amount payable by any Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.  Furthermore, upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, each Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding Obligations hereunder then owing by it at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.  Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts shall be due and payable upon demand.
(c)           Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein.  Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
           .  In addition to certain fees described in subsections (h) and (i) of :
2
.
9
Fees
Section 2.3
(a)           .  DeVry shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Pro Rata Share, a commitment fee in Dollars equal to the Applicable Rate times the actual daily amount by which the Aggregate Commitments exceed the sum of (i) the Outstanding Amount of Revolving Loans and (ii) the Outstanding Amount of L/C Obligations, subject to adjustment as provided in .  The commitment fee shall accrue at all times during the Availability Period, including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met.  The commitment fee shall be due and payable quarterly in
Commitment Fee
Section 2.16
Article IV
 
 
42
 
 
arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the Maturity Date, provided that if DeVry has not received an invoice for such fees, such fees shall be due one Business Day after receipt of an invoice therefore.  The commitment fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect.  For purposes of clarification, Swing Line Loans shall not be considered outstanding for purposes of determining the unused portion of the Aggregate Commitments.
(b)           .  (i) DeVry shall pay to the Arranger and the Administrative Agent for their own respective accounts fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Engagement Letter (it being understood that such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever), and (ii) DeVry shall pay to the Lenders such fees as shall have been separately agreed upon in writing in the amounts and at the times so specified.  Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
Other Fees
           .
2
.
10
Computation of Interest and Fees
All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed.  All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year), or, in the case of interest in respect of Revolving Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies as to which market practice differs from the foregoing, in accordance with such market practice.  Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid, provided that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day.  Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Section 2.12(a)
           .
2
.
11
Evidence of Debt
(a)           The Credit Extensions made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business.  The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Credit Extensions made by the Lenders to each Borrower and the interest and payments thereon.  Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of each Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations.  In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error.  Upon the request of any Lender made through the Administrative Agent, each Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans in addition to such accounts or records.  Each Lender may attach schedules to its Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount, currency and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
 
 
43
 
 
(b)           In addition to the accounts and records referred to in subsection (a), each Lender and the Administrative Agent shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice accounts or records evidencing the purchases and sales by such Lender of participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans.  In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by the Administrative Agent and the accounts and records of any Lender in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error.
           .
2
.
12
Payments Generally; Administrative Agent's Clawback
(a)           .  All payments to be made by the Borrowers shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff.  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein and except with respect to principal of and interest on Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency, all payments by a Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in Same Day Funds not later than 1:00 p.m. on the date specified herein.  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrowers hereunder with respect to principal and interest on Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable Administrative Agent's Office in such Alternative Currency and in Same Day Funds not later than the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent on the dates specified herein.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent may require that any payments due under this Agreement be made in the United States.  If, for any reason, any Borrower is prohibited by any Law from making any required payment hereunder in an Alternative Currency, such Borrower shall make such payment in Dollars in the Dollar Equivalent of the Alternative Currency payment amount.  The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Pro Rata Share (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office.  All payments received by the Administrative Agent (i) after 1:00 p.m. in the case of payments in Dollars, or (ii) after the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent in the case of payments in an Alternative Currency, shall in each case be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue.  If any payment to be made by the Borrower s (or any of them) shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
General
(b)           (i)            .  Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing of Eurocurrency Rate Loans (or, in the case of any Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, prior to 11:00 a.m. on the date of such Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with (or, in the case of a Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by ) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the applicable Borrower a corresponding amount.  In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the applicable Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in Same Day Funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to such Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
Section 2.2
Section 2.2
 
 
44
 
 
Overnight Rate, any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing, and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by such Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate Loans.  If such Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to such Borrower the amount of such interest paid by such Borrower for such period.  If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing.  Any payment by such Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim such Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
plus
(ii)           .  Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Borrower prior to the time at which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer hereunder that such Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount due.  In such event, if such Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, in Same Day Funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the Overnight Rate.
Payments by Borrowers; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or DeVry with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (b) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
(c)           .  If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to the applicable Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Credit Extension set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article IV
(d)           .  The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Revolving Loans and to fund participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans and to make payments pursuant to are several and not joint.  The failure of any Lender to make any Revolving Loan or to fund any such participation or to make any payment under are on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Revolving Loan or purchase its participation or to make its payment under are.
Obligations of Lenders Several
Section 11.4(c)
Section 11.4(c)
Section 11.4(c)
(e)           .  Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
Funding Source
 
 
45
 
 
(f)           .  If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, L/C Borrowings, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) , toward payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) , toward payment of principal and L/C Borrowings then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal and L/C Borrowings then due to such parties.
Insufficient Funds
first
second
           .
2
.
13
Sharing of Payments
If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Loans made by it, or the participations in L/C Obligations or in Swing Line Loans held by it resulting in such Lender's receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon greater than its share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Loans and subparticipations in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Loans and other amounts owing them, that:
pro
rata
provided
(i)           if any such participations or subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
(ii)           the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (A) any payment made by or on behalf of a Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement (including the application of funds arising from the existence of a Defaulting Lender), (B) the application of Cash Collateral provided for in , or (C) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans or subparticipations in L/C Obligations or Swing Line Loans to any assignee or participant, other than an assignment to a Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).
Section 2.15
Each Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against such Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of such Borrower in the amount of such participation.
           .
2
.
14
Increase in Commitments
(a)           Upon notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders), DeVry may from time to time (but not more than twice), request an increase in the Aggregate Commitments (including the Offshore Sublimit) by an amount (for all such requests) not exceeding $150,000,000; by adding to this Agreement one or more other lenders (which may include any existing Lender, with the consent of such Lender in its sole discretion) (each such bank, a ) with the approval of (x) the Administrative Agent (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed); that no consent of the Administrative Agent will be required in the case of any such Supplemental Lender that is a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to a Lender and (y) the L/C
Supplemental Lender
provided
 
 
46
 
 
Issuer (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), that (i) each Supplemental Lender shall have entered into an agreement pursuant to which such Supplemental Lender shall undertake a Commitment (or, if such Supplemental Lender is an existing Lender, pursuant to which its Commitment shall be increased), (ii) such Commitment of any Supplemental Lender that is not an existing Lender shall be in an amount of at least $15,000,000, (iii) such Commitment (together with the increased Commitment(s) of all other Supplemental Lenders being provided at such time) shall be in an aggregate amount of at least $15,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, (ii) the Offshore Sublimit shall not exceed $150,000,000 and (iii) no Default shall then exist.
provided
(b)           If the Aggregate Commitments are increased in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent and DeVry shall determine the effective date (the "").  The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify DeVry and the Lenders of the amount and  allocation of such increase and the Increase Effective Date.  As a condition precedent to such increase, DeVry shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the following, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, dated as of such Increase Effective Date, and in sufficient copies for each Lender:
Increase Effective Date
(i)           a certificate signed by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of DeVry certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by DeVry approving  such increase,
(ii)           a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of DeVry certifying that, before and after giving effect to such increase, (A) the representations and warranties contained in and the other Loan Documents are true and correct on and as of the Increase Effective Date (except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in and (b) hereof shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to and hereof), and (B) no Default exists,
Article V
Section 2.14
Section 5.5(a)
Section 6.1(a)
(b)
(iii)           an acknowledgment signed by each other Loan Party consenting to such increase and reaffirming its obligations under the Loan Documents; and
(iv)           to the extent requested by the Administrative Agent, such opinions of counsel (including opinions of counsel for its Non-U.S. Subsidiaries) reaffirming the opinions furnished pursuant to and as applied to the increase in Commitments pursuant to this Section and confirming that the Collateral secures the Obligations as so increased.
Sections 4.1
6.14
On the Increase Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall revise to reflect the increase in Commitments and the allocation thereof, it being understood that (i) each Lender's Pro Rata Share shall be revised to reflect a fraction (expressed as a decimal, carried out to the ninth decimal place) the numerator of which is the amount of the aggregate Commitment of such Lender at such time and the denominator of which is the amount of the Aggregate Commitments of all Lenders, and (ii) the allocation  of such Lender's Commitment shall be revised to reflect such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the Aggregate Commitments as so revised.  DeVry shall prepay any Revolving Loans outstanding on the Increase Effective Date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to ) to the extent necessary to keep all outstanding Revolving Loans ratable with any revised Pro Rata Shares arising from any nonratable increase in the Commitments under this Section.
Schedule 2.1
Section 3.5
 
 
47
 
 
(c)           This Section shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Sections 2.13
11.1
2.15           .
Cash Collateral
(a)           .  Upon the request of the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer (i) if the L/C Issuer has honored any full or partial drawing request under any Letter of Credit and such drawing has resulted in an L/C Borrowing, or (ii) if, as of the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, any L/C Obligation for any reason remains outstanding, DeVry  shall (or shall cause the Designated Borrowers to), in each case, immediately Cash Collateralize the then Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations.  In addition, if the Administrative Agent notifies DeVry at any time that the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations at such time exceeds the Letter of Credit Sublimit then in effect, then, within two Business Days after receipt of such notice, DeVry shall (or shall cause the Designated Borrowers to) Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations in an amount equal to the amount by which the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations exceeds the Letter of Credit Sublimit.  At any time that there shall exist a Defaulting Lender, immediately upon the request of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender, DeVry shall (or shall cause the Designated Borrowers to) deliver to the Administrative Agent Cash Collateral in an amount sufficient to cover all Fronting Exposure (after giving effect to and any Cash Collateral provided by the Defaulting Lender).  The Administrative Agent may, at any time and from time to time after the initial deposit of Cash Collateral, request that additional Cash Collateral be provided in order to protect against the results of exchange rate fluctuations.
Certain Credit Support Events
Section 2.16(a)(iv)
 
(b)           .  All Cash Collateral (other than credit support not constituting funds subject to deposit) shall be maintained in blocked deposit accounts at Bank of America.  Each Borrower, and to the extent provided by any Lender, such Lender, hereby grants to (and subjects to the control of) the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders (including the Swing Line Lender), and agrees to maintain, a first priority security interest in all such cash, deposit accounts and all balances therein, and all other property so provided as collateral pursuant hereto, and in all proceeds of the foregoing, all as security for the obligations to which such Cash Collateral may be applied pursuant to .  If at any time the Administrative Agent determines that Cash Collateral is subject to any right or claim of any Person other than the Administrative Agent as herein provided, or that the total amount of such Cash Collateral is less than the applicable Fronting Exposure and other obligations secured thereby, DeVry (or the applicable Designated Borrower) or the relevant Defaulting Lender will, promptly upon demand by the Administrative Agent, pay or provide to the Administrative Agent additional Cash Collateral in an amount sufficient to eliminate such deficiency.
Grant of Security Interest
Section 2.15(c)
 
(c)           .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, Cash Collateral provided under any of this or , , , or in respect of Letters of Credit or Swing Line Loans shall be held and applied to the satisfaction of the specific L/C Obligations, Swing Line Loans, obligations to fund participations therein (including, as to Cash Collateral provided by a Defaulting Lender, any interest accrued on such obligation) and other obligations for which the Cash Collateral was so provided, prior to any other application of such property as may be provided for herein.
Application
Section 2.15
Sections 2.3
2.4
2.5
2.16
8.2
 
 
48
 
 
(d)           .  Cash Collateral (or the appropriate portion thereof) provided to reduce Fronting Exposure or other obligations shall be released promptly following (i) the elimination of the applicable Fronting Exposure or other obligations giving rise thereto (including by the termination of Defaulting Lender status of the applicable Lender (or, as appropriate, its assignee following compliance with )) or (ii) the Administrative Agent's good faith determination that there exists excess Cash Collateral; , , (x) that Cash Collateral furnished by or on behalf of a Borrower shall not be released during the continuance of a Default (and following application as provided in this may be otherwise applied in accordance with ), and (y) the Person providing Cash Collateral and the L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as applicable, may agree that Cash Collateral shall not be released but instead held to support future anticipated Fronting Exposure or other obligations.
Release
Section 11.7(b)(vii)
provided
however
Section 2.15
Section 8.3
           .
2
.
16
Defaulting Lenders
(a)           .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then, until such time as that Lender is no longer a Defaulting Lender, to the extent permitted by applicable Law:
Adjustments
(i)           .  That Defaulting Lender's right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent with respect to this Agreement shall be restricted as set forth in .
Waivers and Amendments
Section 11.1
(ii)           .  Any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts received by the Administrative Agent for the account of that Defaulting Lender (whether voluntary or mandatory, at maturity, pursuant to or otherwise, and including any amounts made available to the Administrative Agent by that Defaulting Lender pursuant to ), shall be applied at such time or times as may be determined by the Administrative Agent as follows: , to the payment of any amounts owing by that Defaulting Lender to the Administrative Agent hereunder; , to the payment on a pro rata basis of any amounts owing by that Defaulting Lender to the L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender hereunder; , if so determined by the Administrative Agent or requested by the L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, to be held as Cash Collateral for future funding obligations of that Defaulting Lender of any participation in any Swing Line Loan or Letter of Credit; , as DeVry may request (so long as no Default exists), to the funding of any Loan in respect of which that Defaulting Lender has failed to fund its portion thereof as required by this Agreement, as determined by the Administrative Agent; , if so determined by the Administrative Agent and DeVry, to be held in a non-interest bearing deposit account and released in order to satisfy obligations of that Defaulting Lender to fund Loans under this Agreement; , to the payment of any amounts owing to the Lenders, the L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by any Lender, the L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender against that Defaulting Lender as a result of that Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; , so long as no Default exists, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Borrowers as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by a Borrower against that Defaulting Lender as a result of that Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; and , to that Defaulting Lender or as otherwise directed by a court of competent jurisdiction; that if (x) such payment is a payment of the principal amount of any Loans or L/C Borrowings in respect of which that Defaulting Lender has not fully funded its appropriate share and (y) such Loans or L/C Borrowings were made at a time when the conditions set forth in were satisfied or waived, such payment shall be applied solely to pay the Loans of, and L/C Borrowings owed to, all non-Defaulting Lenders on a pro rata basis prior to being applied to the payment of any
Reallocation of Payments
Article VIII
Section 11.9
first
second
third
fourth
fifth
sixth
seventh
eighth
provided
Section 4.2
 
 
49
 
 
Loans of, or L/C Borrowings owed to, that Defaulting Lender.  Any payments, prepayments or other amounts paid or payable to a Defaulting Lender that are applied (or held) to pay amounts owed by a Defaulting Lender or to post Cash Collateral pursuant to this shall be deemed paid to and redirected by that Defaulting Lender, and each Lender irrevocably consents hereto.
Section 2.16(a)(ii)
(iii)           .  That Defaulting Lender (x) shall not be entitled to receive any commitment fee pursuant to for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender (and the Borrowers shall not be required to pay any such fee that otherwise would have been required to have been paid to that Defaulting Lender) and (y) shall be limited in its right to receive Letter of Credit Fees as provided in .
Certain Fees
Section 2.9(a)
Section 2.3(h)
 
(iv)           .  During any period in which there is a Defaulting Lender, for purposes of computing the amount of the obligation of each non-Defaulting Lender to acquire, refinance or fund participations in Letters of Credit or Swing Line Loans pursuant to and , the "Pro Rata Share" of each non-Defaulting Lender shall be computed without giving effect to the Commitment of that Defaulting Lender; , that, (i) each such reallocation shall be given effect only if, at the date the applicable Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, no Default exists; and (ii) the aggregate obligation of each non-Defaulting Lender to acquire, refinance or fund participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans shall not exceed the positive difference, if any, of (1) the Commitment of that non-Defaulting Lender (2) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Revolving Loans of that Lender.
Reallocation of Pro Rata Shares to Reduce Fronting Exposure
Sections 2.3
2.4
provided
minus
(b)           .  If DeVry, the Administrative Agent, the Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer agree in writing in their sole discretion that a Defaulting Lender should no longer be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender, the Administrative Agent will so notify the parties hereto, whereupon as of the effective date specified in such notice and subject to any conditions set forth therein (which may include arrangements with respect to any Cash Collateral), that Lender will, to the extent applicable, purchase that portion of outstanding Loans of the other Lenders or take such other actions as the Administrative Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Loans and funded and unfunded participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans to be held on a pro rata basis by the Lenders in accordance with their Pro Rata Shares (without giving effect to ), whereupon that Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender; that no adjustments will be made retroactively with respect to fees accrued or payments made by or on behalf of a Borrower while that Lender was a Defaulting Lender; and , , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no change hereunder from Defaulting Lender to Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from that Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender.
Defaulting Lender Cure
Section 2.16(a)(iv)
provided
provided
further
2.17           .
Designated Borrowers
(a)           Effective as of the date hereof GEI, shall be a "Designated Borrower" hereunder and may receive Loans for its account on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. The Lenders agree that upon compliance with this , Global Education International BV, a Netherlands company, can become a Designated Borrower.
Section 2.17
(b)           DeVry may at any time, upon not less than 15 Business Days' notice from DeVry to the Administrative Agent (or such shorter period as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion), request the designation of any wholly-owned Offshore Subsidiary of
 
 
 
50
 
 
DeVry (an "") as a Designated Borrower to receive Loans and Letters of Credit hereunder by delivering to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly deliver copies thereof to each Lender) a duly executed notice in substantially the form of (a "").  If the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders, agree that an Applicant Borrower shall be entitled to receive Loans and Letters of Credit hereunder, then the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall send an agreement in substantially the form of (a "") to DeVry specifying (x) the additional terms and conditions applicable to extensions of credit to such Applicant Borrower due to applicable Laws with respect to the jurisdiction of organization for such Applicant Borrower and (y) the effective date upon which the Applicant Borrower shall constitute a Designated Borrower for purposes hereof.  Upon the execution of such Designated Borrower Joinder Agreement by DeVry and such Applicant Borrower, such Applicant Borrower shall be a Designated Borrower and permitted to receive Loans and Letters of Credit hereunder, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and therein, and such Applicant Borrower otherwise shall be a Borrower for all purposes of this Agreement; that no Loan Notice or Letter of Credit Application may be submitted by or on behalf of such Designated Borrower until the date five Business Days after such effective date.  The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that prior to any Designated Borrower becoming entitled to utilize the credit facilities provided for in this Agreement the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall have received such supporting resolutions, incumbency certificates, opinions of counsel and other documents or information, in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, as may be required by the Administrative Agent in its reasonable discretion.
Applicant Borrower
Exhibit I
Designated Borrower Request
Exhibit J
Designated Borrower Joinder Agreement
provided
(c)           The Obligations of each of the Designated Borrowers shall be several in nature.
 
(d)           Each Subsidiary of DeVry that is or becomes a "Designated Borrower" pursuant to this hereby irrevocably appoints DeVry as its agent for all purposes relevant to this Agreement and each of the other Loan Documents, including (i) the giving and receipt of notices, (ii) the execution and delivery of all documents, instruments and certificates contemplated herein and all modifications hereto, and (iii) the receipt of the proceeds of any Loans made by the Lenders, to any such Designated Borrower hereunder.  Any acknowledgment, consent, direction, certification or other action which might otherwise be valid or effective only if given or taken by all Borrowers, or by each Borrower acting singly, shall be valid and effective if given or taken only by DeVry, whether or not any such other Borrower joins therein.  Any notice, demand, consent, acknowledgement, direction, certification or other communication delivered to DeVry in accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been delivered to each Designated Borrower; that if such communication is directed to a specific Designated Borrower, it shall indicate to which Designated Borrower it is directed.
Section 2.17
provided
(e)           DeVry may from time to time, upon not less than 15 Business Days' notice from DeVry to the Administrative Agent (or such shorter period as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion), terminate a Designated Borrower's status as such, that there are no outstanding Loans payable by such Designated Borrower, or other amounts payable by such Designated Borrower on account of any Loans made to it, as of the effective date of such termination. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such termination of a Designated Borrower's status.
provided
 
 
51
 
 
           .
3
.
1
Taxes
(a)           Any and all payments by the Borrowers to or for the account of the Administrative Agent or any Lender under any Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, duties, levies, imposts, deductions, assessments, fees, withholdings or similar charges, and all liabilities with respect thereto, excluding, in the case of the Administrative Agent and each Lender, taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income, franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the Laws of which the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, is organized or maintains a lending office and, in the case of any Foreign Lender any taxes imposed on any "withholdable payment" payable to such Foreign Lender as a result of the failure of such Foreign Lender to satisfy the applicable requirements as in effect after December 31, 2012 in FATCA to establish that such payment is exempt from withholding under FATCA ("") (all such non-excluded taxes, duties, levies, imposts, deductions, assessments, fees, withholdings or similar charges, and liabilities being hereinafter referred to as "").  If any Borrower shall be required by any Laws to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable under any Loan Document to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this ), each of the Administrative Agent and such Lender receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) such Borrower shall make such deductions, (iii) such Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable Laws, and (iv) within 30 days after the date of such payment, such Borrower shall furnish to the Administrative Agent (which shall forward the same to such Lender) the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing payment thereof.  The Obligations of the Borrowers under this are subject to the provisions of .
Excluded Taxes
Taxes
Section 3.1(a)
Section 3.1
Section 11.16
(b)           In addition, each Borrower agrees to pay any and all present or future stamp, court or documentary taxes and any other excise or property taxes or charges or similar levies which arise from any payment made by such Borrower under any Loan Document or from the execution, delivery, performance, enforcement or registration of, or otherwise with respect to, any Loan Document (hereinafter referred to as "").
Other Taxes
(c)           If any Borrower shall be required to deduct or pay any Taxes or Other Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable under any Loan Document to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, such Borrower shall also pay to the Administrative Agent or to such Lender, as the case may be, at the time interest is paid, such additional amount that the Administrative Agent or such Lender specifies is necessary to preserve the after-tax yield (after factoring in all taxes, including taxes imposed on or measured by net income) that the Administrative Agent or such Lender would have received if such Taxes or Other Taxes had not been imposed.
(d)           Each Borrower agrees to indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender for (i) the full amount of Taxes and Other Taxes (including any Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted by any jurisdiction on additional amounts payable under this ) paid by the Administrative Agent and such Lender with respect to payments made by a Borrower hereunder, (ii) amounts payable under , and (iii) any liability (including additions to tax, penalties, interest and expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, but excluding penalties, interest and expenses imposed or asserted on account of the bad faith or willful neglect of the Administrative Agent or such Lender).  Payment under this subsection (d) shall be made within 30 days after the date the Lender or the Administrative Agent makes a demand therefore.
Section 3.1
Section 3.1(c)
 
 
52
 
 
(e)           .  Unless required by applicable Laws, at no time shall the Administrative Agent have any obligation to file for or otherwise pursue on behalf of a Lender or the L/C Issuer, or have any obligation to pay to any Lender or the L/C Issuer, any refund of Taxes withheld or deducted from funds paid for the account of such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be.  If the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by any Borrower or with respect to which any Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to such Borrower an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by such Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund), that each Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, agrees to repay the amount paid over to such Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer in the event the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority.  This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to any Borrower or any other Person.
Treatment of Certain Refunds
provided
           .
3
.
2
Illegality
If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Loans whose interest is determined by reference to the Eurocurrency Rate (whether denominated in Dollars or an Alternative Currency), or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurocurrency Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars or any Alternative Currency in the applicable interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the applicable Borrower through the Administrative Agent, (i) any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies or, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in Dollars, to convert Base Rate Loans to Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be suspended and (ii) if such notice asserts the illegality of such Lender making or maintaining Base Rate Loans the interest rate on which is determined by reference to the Eurocurrency Rate component of the Base Rate, the interest rate on which Base Rate Loans of such Lender, shall, if necessary to avoid such illegality, be determined by the Administrative Agent without reference to the Eurocurrency Rate component of the Base Rate, in each case until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the applicable Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist.  Upon receipt of such notice, (x) the applicable Borrower shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable and such Loans are denominated in Dollars, convert all of such Lender's Eurocurrency Rate Loans to Base Rate Loans (the interest rate on which Base Rate Loans of such Lender shall, if necessary to avoid such illegality, be determined by the Administrative Agent without reference to the Eurocurrency Rate component of the Base Rate), either on the last day of the Interest Period therefore, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency Rate Loans and (y) if such notice asserts the illegality of such Lender determining or charging interest rates based upon the Eurocurrency Rate, the Administrative Agent shall during the period of such suspension compute the Base Rate applicable to such Lender without reference to the Eurocurrency Rate component thereof until the Administrative Agent is advised in writing by such Lender that it is no longer illegal for such Lender to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurocurrency Rate.  Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the applicable Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
 
 
53
 
 
           .
3
.
3
Inability to Determine Rates
If the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) deposits (whether in Dollars or an Alternative Currency) are not being offered to banks in the applicable offshore interbank market for such currency for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurocurrency Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurocurrency Rate Loan (whether denominated in Dollars or an Alternative Currency) or in connection with an existing or proposed Base Rate Loan, or (c) the Eurocurrency Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurocurrency Rate Loan or in connection with a Eurocurrency Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the applicable Borrower and each Lender.  Thereafter, (x) the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies shall be suspended and (y) in the event of a determination described in the preceding sentence with respect to the Eurocurrency Rate component of the Base Rate, the utilization of the Eurocurrency Rate component in determining the Base Rate shall be suspended, in each case until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice.  Upon receipt of such notice, the applicable Borrower may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
           .
3
.
4
Increased Costs; Reserves on Eurocurrency Rate Loans
(a)           .  If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
(i)           impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except (A) any reserve requirement contemplated by and (B) the requirements of the Bank of England and the Financial Services Authority or the European Central Bank reflected in the Mandatory Cost, other than as set forth below) or the L/C Issuer;
Section 3.4(e)
(ii)           subject any Lender or the L/C Issuer to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement, any Letter of Credit, any participation in a Letter of Credit or any Eurocurrency Rate Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender or the L/C Issuer in respect thereof (except for Taxes or Other Taxes covered by and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender or the L/C Issuer);
Section 3.1
(iii)           result in the failure of the Mandatory Cost, as calculated hereunder, to represent the cost to any Lender of complying with the requirements of the Bank of England and/or the Financial Services Authority or the European Central Bank in relation to its making, funding or maintaining Eurocurrency Rate Loans; or
(iv)           impose on any Lender or the L/C Issuer or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurocurrency Rate Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
 
 
54
 
 
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Loan the interest on which is determined by reference to the Eurocurrency Rate (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to increase the cost to such Lender or the L/C Issuer of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit (or of maintaining its obligation to participate in or to issue any Letter of Credit), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or the L/C Issuer hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender or the L/C Issuer, DeVry will pay to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b)           .  If any Lender or the L/C Issuer determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or the L/C Issuer or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by the L/C Issuer, to a level below that which such Lender or the L/C Issuer or such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's policies and the policies of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time DeVry will pay to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer or such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
Capital Requirements
(c)           .  A certificate of a Lender or the L/C Issuer setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section and delivered to DeVry shall be conclusive absent manifest error.  DeVry shall pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
(d)           .  Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or the L/C Issuer to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's right to demand such compensation, provided that no Borrower shall be required to compensate a Lender or the L/C Issuer pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than 90 days prior to the date that such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, notifies DeVry of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's intention to claim compensation therefore (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 90-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
Delay in Requests
(e)           .  DeVry shall pay to each Lender, (i) as long as such Lender shall be required to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency funds or deposits (currently known as ""), additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurocurrency Rate Loan equal to the actual costs of such reserves allocated to such Loan by such Lender (as determined by such Lender in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive), and (ii) as long as such Lender
Additional Reserve Requirements
Eurocurrency Liabilities
 
 
55
 
 
shall be required to comply with any reserve ratio requirement or analogous requirement of any central banking or financial regulatory authority imposed in respect of the maintenance of the Commitments or the funding of the Eurocurrency Rate Loans, such additional costs (expressed as a percentage per annum and rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest five decimal places) equal to the actual costs allocated to such Commitment or Loan by such Lender (as determined by such Lender in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive), which in each case shall be due and payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Loan, provided DeVry shall have received at least 10 days' prior notice (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) of such additional interest or costs from such Lender.  If a Lender fails to give notice 10 days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date, such additional interest or costs shall be due and payable 10 days from receipt of such notice.
           .
3
.
5
Compensation for Losses
Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, DeVry shall promptly compensate (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to compensate) such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
(a)           any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
(b)           any failure by any Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by DeVry or the applicable Designated Borrower;
(c)           any failure by any Borrower to make payment of any Loan or drawing under any Letter of Credit (or interest due thereon) denominated in an Alternative Currency on its scheduled due date or any payment thereof in a different currency; or
(d)           any assignment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefore as a result of a request by DeVry pursuant to ;
Section 11.16
including any loss of anticipated profits, any foreign exchange losses and any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan, from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained or from the performance of any foreign exchange contract.  DeVry shall also pay any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
For purposes of calculating amounts payable by any Borrower to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurocurrency Rate Loan made by it at the Eurocurrency Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the offshore interbank market for such currency for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurocurrency Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
Section 3.5
           .
3
.
6
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
(a)           .  If any Lender requests compensation under , or a Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender, the L/C Issuer, or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender or the L/C Issuer pursuant to , or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to , then such Lender or the L/C Issuer shall, as applicable, use
Designation of a Different Lending Office
Section 3.4
Section 3.1
Section 3.2
 
 
56
 
 
reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender or the L/C Issuer, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to , as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be.  DeVry hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender or the L/C Issuer in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Section 3.1
3.4
Section 3.2
(b)           .  If any Lender requests compensation under , or if a Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , DeVry may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.4
Section 3.1
Section 11.16
           .
3
.
7
Survival
The obligations of each Borrower under this shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations hereunder, and resignation of the Administrative Agent.
Article III
           .
4
.
1
Conditions of Initial Credit Extension
The obligation of each Lender to make its initial Credit Extension hereunder is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
(a)           The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or facsimiles (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer or Senior Responsible Officer of the signing Loan Party, each dated the Closing Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Closing Date or such other date acceptable to the Administrative Agent) and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its legal counsel:
(i)           executed counterparts of this Agreement, the U.S. Subsidiary Guaranty, an Offshore Guaranty with respect to GEI, and the Pledge Agreement;
(ii)           as to each Borrower, a Note executed by such Borrower in favor of each Lender requesting a Note;
(iii)           share certificates representing the Collateral pledged under the Pledge Agreement, together with stock powers executed in blank;
(iv)           evidence of the filing in the appropriate offices of UCC financing statements or similar document required under any other applicable law in the name of each Loan Party which is a pledgor under this Agreement and the Pledge Agreement (as debtor) and the Administrative Agent (as secured party) describing the Collateral under the Pledge Agreement;
 
 
57
 
 
(v)           such UCC search reports as the Administrative Agent shall have requested;
(vi)           such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of each Loan Party as the Administrative Agent may require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which such Loan Party is a party;
(vii)           subject to , such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require, if applicable, to evidence that each Loan Party is duly organized or formed, and that each of the Loan Parties is validly existing, in good standing and qualified to engage in business in each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
Section 6.14
(viii)           favorable opinions of (A) Gregory S. Davis, General Counsel of DeVry and Mayer Brown LLP, special counsel to the Loan Parties, addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender as to the matters as the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders may reasonably request, (B) Clarke, Gittens & Farmer, Barbados counsel to the Loan Parties and (C) De Frietas De Frietas and Johnson, Dominica counsel to the Loan Parties;
(ix)           a certificate of a Responsible Officer of DeVry either (A) attaching copies of all consents, licenses and approvals required in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by such Loan Party and the validity against such Loan Party of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and such consents, licenses and approvals shall be in full force and effect, or (B) stating that no such consents, licenses or approvals are so required;
(x)           a certificate (the "") signed by a Senior Responsible Officer of DeVry to the effect that (A) the conditions specified in and have been satisfied, (B) there has been no event or circumstance since December 31, 2010 that has had or could be reasonably expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect; and (C) attached thereto is a calculation of the financial tests set forth in (such calculation to be as of the last day of the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of DeVry most recently ended prior to the Closing Date).
Closing Certificate
Sections 4.2(a)
(b)
Section 7.15
(b)           Any and all fees and expenses required to be paid on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid.
(c)           Unless waived by the Administrative Agent, DeVry shall have paid all Attorney Costs of the Administrative Agent to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Closing Date, such additional amounts of Attorney Costs as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of Attorney Costs incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings (provided that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between DeVry and the Administrative Agent).
plus
 
 
58
 
 
Without limiting the generality of the provisions of the last paragraph of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.3
Section 4.1
           .
4
.
2
Conditions to all Credit Extensions
The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Credit Extension (other than a Revolving Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Revolving Loans to the other Type, or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans) is subject to the following conditions precedent:
(a)           The representations and warranties of the Borrowers and each other Loan Party contained in of this Agreement or in any other Loan Document, or which are contained in any document furnished at any time under or in connection herewith or therewith, shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to subsections (a) and (b), respectively, of .
Article V
Section 4.2
Section 5.5
Section 6.1
(b)           No Default shall exist, or would result from such proposed Credit Extension.
(c)           The Administrative Agent and, if applicable, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender shall have received a Request for Credit Extension in accordance with the requirements hereof.
(d)           In the case of a Credit Extension to be denominated in an Alternative Currency, there shall not have occurred any change in national or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls which in the reasonable opinion of the Administrative Agent, the Required Lenders (in the case of any Loans to be denominated in an Alternative Currency) or the L/C Issuer (in the case of any Letter of Credit to be denominated in an Alternative Currency) would make it impracticable for such Credit Extension to be denominated in the relevant Alternative Currency.
(e)           If the applicable Borrower is a Designated Borrower, such Borrower shall have been designated as a Designated Borrower pursuant to .
Section 2.17
Each Request for Credit Extension (other than a Revolving Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Revolving Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans) submitted by any Borrower shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in and have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Credit Extension.
Sections 4.2(a)
(b)
 
 
59
 
 
Each Borrower jointly and severally represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
           .
5
.
1
Existence, Qualification and Power; Compliance with Laws
Each Loan Party (a) is a corporation, partnership or limited liability company duly organized or formed, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, (b) has all requisite power and authority and all requisite governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals to (i) own its assets and carry on its business and (ii) execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party, (c) is duly qualified and is licensed and in good standing under the Laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification or license, and (d) is in compliance with all Laws; except (x) in the case of clause (a), such representation and warranty shall not apply to Ross University School of Medicine, School of Veterinary Medicine Limited, Ross University Management, Inc. and Ross University School of Medicine, School of Veterinary Medicine (St. Kitts) Limited until such time as the requirements in have been satisfied and (y) in each case referred to in clause (b)(i), (c) or (d), to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 6.14
           .
5
.
2
Authorization; No Contravention
The execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of each Loan Document to which such Person is party, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action, and do not and will not (a) contravene the terms of any of such Person's Organization Documents; (b) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien (other than Liens under the Loan Documents) under, (i) any Contractual Obligation to which such Person is a party or (ii) any order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority or any arbitral award to which such Person or its property is subject; or (c) violate any Law.
           .
5
.
3
Governmental Authorization; Other Consents
No approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person not previously obtained or made is necessary or required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, any Loan Party of this Agreement or any other Loan Document other than filings in connection with the Pledge Agreement.
           .
5
.
4
Binding Effect
This Agreement has been, and each other Loan Document, when delivered hereunder, will have been, duly executed and delivered by each Loan Party that is party thereto.  This Agreement constitutes, and each other Loan Document when so delivered will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Loan Party, enforceable against each Loan Party that is party thereto in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by (i) applicable Debtor Relief Laws and (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
 
 
60
 
 
           .
5
.
5
Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Effect
(a)           The Audited Financial Statements (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; (ii) fairly present the financial condition of DeVry and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; and (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of DeVry and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness.
(b)           The unaudited consolidated financial statements of DeVry and its Subsidiaries dated December 31, 2010 and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended on that date (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein, (ii) fairly present the financial condition of DeVry and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby, subject, in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments and (iii) except as set forth on , show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of DeVry and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date of such financial statements, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness.
Schedule 5.5
(c)           Since December 31, 2010, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
           .
5
.
6
Litigation
There are no actions, suits, proceedings, claims or disputes pending or, to the knowledge of DeVry after due and diligent investigation, threatened or contemplated, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority, by or against DeVry or any of its Subsidiaries or against any of their properties or revenues that (a) purport to affect or pertain to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any of the transactions contemplated hereby, or (b) either individually or in the aggregate, if determined adversely, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
           .
5
.
7
No Default
Neither DeVry nor any Subsidiary is in default under or with respect to any Contractual Obligation that could, either individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  No Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
           .
5
.
8
Ownership of Property; Liens
Each of DeVry and each Subsidiary has good and marketable title in fee simple to, or valid leasehold interests in, all real property necessary or used in the ordinary conduct of its business, except for such defects in title as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  The property of DeVry and its Subsidiaries is subject to no Liens, other than Liens permitted by .
Section 7.1
 
 
61
 
 
           .
5
.
9
Environmental Compliance
DeVry and its Subsidiaries conduct in the ordinary course of business a review of the effect of existing Environmental Laws and claims alleging potential liability or responsibility for violation of any Environmental Law on their respective businesses, operations and properties, and as a result thereof DeVry has reasonably concluded that such Environmental Laws and claims could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
           .
5
.
10
Insurance
The properties of DeVry and its Subsidiaries are insured with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of DeVry, in such amounts, with such deductibles and covering such risks as are customarily carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in localities where DeVry or the applicable Subsidiary operates.
           .
5
.
11
Taxes
DeVry and its Subsidiaries have filed all Federal, state and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed, and have paid all Federal, state and other material taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP.  There is no proposed tax assessment against DeVry or any Subsidiary that would, if made, have a Material Adverse Effect.
           .
5
.
12
ERISA Compliance
(a)           Each Plan is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other Federal or state Laws.  Each Plan that is intended to qualify under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter from the IRS or an application for such a letter is currently being processed by the IRS with respect thereto and, to the best knowledge of DeVry, nothing has occurred which would prevent, or cause the loss of, such qualification.
(b)           There are no pending or, to the best knowledge of DeVry, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan that could be reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(c)           No ERISA Event has occurred or would be reasonably expected to occur.
           .
5
.
13
Subsidiaries
As of the Closing Date, DeVry has no Subsidiaries other than those specifically disclosed in Part (a) of and has no equity investments in any other corporation or entity other than those specifically disclosed in Part(b) of .   correctly sets forth, as of the Closing Date, (i) the percentage ownership (direct or indirect) of DeVry in each class of capital stock or other equity of each of its Subsidiaries and also identifies the direct owner thereof and (ii) the jurisdiction of organization of each such Subsidiary.   identifies (by an asterisk) each Subsidiary (if any) which is a Dormant Subsidiary.  Set forth in is a true and correct organization chart showing DeVry and its Subsidiaries as of the Closing Date.
Schedule 5.13
Schedule 5.13
Schedule 5.13
Schedule 5.13
Schedule 5.13
 
 
62
 
 
           .
5
.
14
Margin Regulations; Investment Company Act
(a)           No Borrower is engaged or will engage, principally or as one of its important activities, in the business of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB), or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock.
(b)           None of DeVry, any Person Controlling DeVry, or any Subsidiary is or is required to be registered as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
           .
5
.
15
[Reserved]
           .
5
.
16
Disclosure
Each Borrower has disclosed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders all agreements, instruments and corporate or other restrictions to which it or any of its Subsidiaries is subject, and all other matters known to it, that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.  No report, financial statement, certificate or other information furnished (whether in writing or orally) by or on behalf of any Loan Party to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
           .
5
.
17
Compliance with Laws
DeVry and each Subsidiary is in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its properties, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted or (b) the failure to comply therewith could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, of the operations of DeVry and each Subsidiary are in compliance with (i) all applicable Laws the violation of which would terminate or materially impair the eligibility of DeVry or any Subsidiary for participation, if applicable, in student financial assistance programs under Title IV, (ii) the federal Truth-in-Lending Act, 15 U.S.C.  1601 et seq., and all other consumer credit laws applicable to DeVry or any Subsidiary in connection with the advancing of student loans, except for such laws and regulations the violation of which, in the aggregate, will not have a Material Adverse Effect, (iii) all statutory and regulatory requirements for authorization to provide post-secondary education in the jurisdictions in which its educational facilities are located, except for such requirements the violation of which would not have a Material Adverse Effect, (iv) if applicable, all requirements for continuing its Accreditations, except for such requirements the violation of which would not have a Material Adverse Effect and (v) all requirements concerning the limitation on the receipt of Title IV Program funding under the "90/10 Rule" codified at 34 C.F.R.  600.5(d) and HEA except for such requirements the violation of which would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
63
 
 
           .
5
.
18
Intellectual Property; Licenses, Etc
DeVry and its Subsidiaries own, or possess the right to use, all of the trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, patents, patent rights, franchises, licenses and other intellectual property rights (collectively, "") that are reasonably necessary for the operation of their respective businesses, without conflict with the rights of any other Person.  To the best knowledge of DeVry, no slogan or other advertising device, product, process, method, substance, part or other material now employed, or now contemplated to be employed, by DeVry or any Subsidiary infringes upon any rights held by any other Person except for such infringement which, either individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
IP Rights
           .
5
.
19
Guaranties
Each U.S. Subsidiary (other than a Dormant Subsidiary and any U.S. Foreign Holdco to the extent set forth in the definition thereof) has executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent a U.S. Subsidiary Guaranty; and each Offshore Subsidiary and each U.S. Foreign Holdco has duly executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent an Offshore Guaranty to the extent required by, and in accordance with, .
Section 6.12
           .
5
.
20
Pledge Documents
Each Loan Party which owns any capital stock or other equity interest in any other Subsidiary has duly executed and delivered the Pledge Agreement to the extent required under .  The Pledge Agreement is effective to create in favor of the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Secured Parties, a legal, valid and enforceable security interest in the Collateral and, when the Collateral is delivered to the Administrative Agent (and the appropriate filings or other action specified in are made), the Pledge Agreement shall constitute a fully perfected first priority Lien on, and security interest in, all right, title and interest of the pledgors thereunder in such Collateral, in each case prior and superior in right to any other person (other than Liens permitted by ).
Section 6.13
Schedule 5.20
Section 7.3(f)
           .
5
.
21
Solvency
Immediately following the making of each Loan and after giving effect to the application of the proceeds of the Loans, (a) the fair value of the assets of the Loan Parties, at a fair valuation, will exceed their debts and liabilities, subordinated, contingent or otherwise; (b) the present fair saleable value of the property of the Loan Parties will be greater than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of their debts and other liabilities, subordinated, contingent or otherwise, as such debts and other liabilities become absolute and matured; (c) each Loan Party will be able to pay its debts and liabilities, subordinated, contingent or otherwise, as such debts and liabilities become absolute and matured; and (d) each Loan Party will not have unreasonably small capital with which to conduct the business in which it is engaged as such business is now conducted and is proposed to be conducted following the Closing Date.  The provisions of this shall not apply to DeVry Canada, LLC.
Section 5.21
           .
5
.
22
Pari-Passu Obligations
The Barbados Courts (or other applicable jurisdictions in the case of any Designated Borrower or Offshore Subsidiary) will rank the obligations of any Designated Borrower or any Offshore Guarantor under the Designated Borrower Notes or the applicable Offshore Guaranty at least with all unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of such Designated Borrower or such Offshore Guarantor in the event such Person becomes insolvent or bankrupt and a custodian, liquidator, trustee or receiver is appointed for the major part of the property of such entity.
pari passu
 
 
64
 
 
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, DeVry shall, and shall (except in the case of the covenants set forth in , , and ) cause each Subsidiary to:
Sections 6.1
6.2
6.3
6.11
           .
6
.
1
Financial Statements
Deliver to the Administrative Agent, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
(a)           as soon as available, but in any event within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of DeVry, a consolidated balance sheet of DeVry and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal year, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, audited and accompanied by a report and opinion of an independent certified public accountant of nationally recognized standing reasonably acceptable to the Required Lenders, which report and opinion shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and shall not be subject to any "going concern" or like qualification or exception or any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit; and
(b)           as soon as available, but in any event within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of DeVry, a consolidated balance sheet of DeVry and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal quarter, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal quarter and for the portion of DeVry's fiscal year then ended, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter of the previous fiscal year and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and certified by a Responsible Officer of DeVry as fairly presenting the financial condition, results of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows of DeVry and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to , DeVry shall not be separately required to furnish such information under clause (a) or (b) above, but the foregoing shall not be in derogation of the obligation of DeVry to furnish the information and materials described in subsections (a) and (b) above at the times specified therein.
Section 6.2(d)
           .
6
.
2
Certificates; Other Information
Deliver to the Administrative Agent, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
(a)           [reserved];
(b)           concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in and , a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of DeVry (which delivery may, unless the Administrative Agent, or a Lender requests executed originals, be by electronic communication including fax or email and shall be deemed to be an original authentic counterpart thereof for all purposes);
Sections 6.1(a)
(b)
 
 
65
 
 
(c)           promptly after any request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, copies of any detailed audit reports, management letters or recommendations submitted to the board of directors (or the audit committee of the board of directors) of DeVry by independent accountants in connection with the accounts or books of DeVry or any Subsidiary, or any audit of any of them;
(d)           promptly after the same are available, copies of each annual report, proxy or financial statement or other report or communication of a financial nature sent to the stockholders of DeVry, and copies of all annual, regular, periodic and special reports and registration statements which DeVry may file or be required to file with the SEC under or of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto; and
Section 13
15(d)
(e)           promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of DeVry or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of the Loan Documents, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to or or (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which DeVry posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on DeVry's website on the Internet at the website address listed on ; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on DeVry's behalf on IntraLinks/IntraAgency or another relevant website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); provided that: (i) DeVry shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent for any Lender that requests DeVry to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent and (ii) DeVry shall notify (which may be by facsimile or electronic mail) the Administrative Agent of the posting of any such documents and provide to the Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions (i.e., soft copies) of such documents.  The Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery of or to maintain paper copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by DeVry with any such request by a Lender for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
Section 6.1(a)
(b)
Section 6.2(d)
Schedule 11.2
Each Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arranger will make available to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of such Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders (each a "") may have personnel who do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to any of the Borrowers or their respective Affiliates, or the respective securities of any of the foregoing, and who may be engaged in investment and other market-related activities with respect to such Persons' securities.  Each Borrower hereby agrees that so long as such Borrower is the issuer of any outstanding debt or equity securities that are registered or issued pursuant to a private offering or is actively contemplating issuing any such securities(w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC," the Borrowers shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative
Borrower Materials
Platform
Public Lender
 
 
 
66
 
 
Agent, the Arranger, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrowers or their respective securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in ); (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated as "Public Side Information;" and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arranger shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not marked as "Public Side Information."  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Borrower shall be under any obligation to mark any Borrower Materials "PUBLIC."
provided
however
Section 11.8
           .
6
.
3
Notices
Promptly notify the Administrative Agent:
(a)           of the occurrence of any Default;
(b)           of any matter that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including (i) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a Contractual Obligation of DeVry or any Subsidiary; (ii) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between DeVry or any Subsidiary and any Governmental Authority; or (iii) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation or proceeding affecting DeVry or any Subsidiary, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws;
(c)           of the occurrence of any ERISA Event;
(d)           of any material change in accounting policies or financial reporting practices by DeVry or any Subsidiary
Each notice pursuant to this shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer of DeVry setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action DeVry has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto.  Each notice pursuant to shall describe with particularity any and all provisions of this Agreement and any other Loan Document that have been breached.  Promptly upon receipt of any notice pursuant to this , the Administrative Agent shall furnish a copy thereof to each Lender or post a copy thereof on IntraLinks/IntraAgency or another relevant website for access thereto by each Lender.
Section 6.3
Section 6.3(a)
Section 6.3
           .
6
.
4
Payment of Obligations
Pay and discharge as the same shall become due and payable all material taxes, assessments and other similar charges except as contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings with respect to which reserves have been established and are being maintained in accordance with GAAP, except where the failure to pay would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
           .
6
.
5
Preservation of Existence, Etc
(a)           (i) Preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its legal existence and good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its organization except in a transaction permitted by or (other than Dormant Subsidiaries and, solely with respect to good standing until such time as the requirements in have been satisfied, Ross University School of Medicine, School of Veterinary Medicine Limited, Ross University Management, Inc. and Ross University School of Medicine, School of Veterinary Medicine (St. Kitts) Limited); (ii)
Section 7.4
7.5
Section 6.14
 
 
67
 
 
take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges, permits, licenses and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (iii) preserve or renew all of its registered patents, trademarks, trade names and service marks, the non-preservation of which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(b)           Without limiting the generality of the foregoing and notwithstanding any limitation contained therein, maintain in full force and effect, except to the extent that the failure to do so would not affect School(s) which contributed more than 20% of Consolidated EBITDA of DeVry and its Subsidiaries for the most recently completed four fiscal quarters of DeVry, (i) its status as an "eligible institution," as defined in 34 C.F.R. Sections 600.2 and 600.5 (to the extent applicable), (ii) its eligibility to participate in all Title IV Programs in which and to the extent that it currently participates, (iii) its Accreditations, and (iv) its licenses to provide postsecondary education in all jurisdictions where it is so licensed.
           .
6
.
6
Maintenance of Properties
(a)           Maintain, preserve and protect all of its material properties and equipment necessary in the operation of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted; and (b) make all necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) use the standard of care typical in the industry in the operation and maintenance of its facilities.
           .
6
.
7
Maintenance of Insurance
Maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of DeVry, insurance with respect to its properties and business against loss or damage of the kinds customarily insured against by Persons engaged in the same or similar business, of such types and in such amounts as are customarily carried under similar circumstances by such other Persons.
           .
6
.
8
Compliance with Laws
Comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its properties, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted; or (b) the failure to comply therewith could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, DeVry will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, comply with (i) all applicable Laws, the violation of which would terminate or materially impair the eligibility of DeVry or any Subsidiary for participation, if applicable, in student financial assistance programs under Title IV, (ii) the federal Truth-in-Lending Act, 15 U.S.C.  1601 et seq., and all other consumer credit laws applicable to DeVry or any Subsidiary in connection with the advancing of student loans, except for such laws and regulations the violation of which, in the aggregate, will not have a Material Adverse Effect, (iii) all statutory and regulatory requirements for authorization to provide post-secondary education in the jurisdictions in which its educational facilities are located, except for such requirements the violation of which will not have a Material Adverse Effect, (iv) if applicable, all requirements for continuing its Accreditations, except for such requirements the violation of which will not have a Material Adverse Effect and (v) all requirements concerning the limitation on the receipt of Title IV Program funding under the "90/10 Rule" codified at 34 C.F.R.  600.5(d) and HEA except for such requirements, the violation of which would not have a Material Adverse Effect.  To the extent that the requirements of this are also specifically covered by or , there shall be no Default under this with respect to such requirements unless such failure to comply is also a Default under .
Section 6.8
Section 7.15(c)
(d)
Section 6.8
Section 7.15
 
 
68
 
 
           .
6
.
9
Books and Records
(a)           Maintain proper books of record and account, in which materially complete and accurate entries in conformity with GAAP consistently applied shall be made of all financial transactions and matters involving the assets and business of DeVry or such Subsidiary, as the case may be; and
(b)           maintain such books of record and account in material conformity with all applicable requirements of any Governmental Authority having regulatory jurisdiction over DeVry or such Subsidiary, as the case may be.
           .
6
.
10
Inspection Rights
Permit representatives and independent contractors of the Administrative Agent and each Lender (at their expense, so long as no Event of Default exists) to visit and inspect any of its properties, to examine its corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its directors, officers, and independent public accountants, at such reasonable times during normal business hours and as often as may be reasonably desired, upon reasonable advance notice to DeVry; , , that when an Event of Default exists the Administrative Agent or any Lender (or any of their respective representatives or independent contractors) may do any of the foregoing at the expense of DeVry at any time during normal business hours and without advance notice.
provided
however
           .
6
.
11
Use of Proceeds
Use the proceeds of the Credit Extensions to (i) finance working capital and capital expenditures, (ii) support the issuance of standby letters of credit, (iii) make Restricted Payments to the extent permitted in , (iv) make Permitted Acquisitions and (v) for other general corporate purposes not in contravention of any Law or of any Loan Document.
Section 7.6
           .
6
.
12
Additional Guarantors
(a)           [Reserved].
(b)           Notify the Administrative Agent as promptly after any Person becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof (such notice to specify whether such Subsidiary is a U.S. Subsidiary or an Offshore Subsidiary), and as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event within 45 days), (i) if such Person is a U.S. Subsidiary (other than a Dormant Subsidiary or a U.S. Foreign Holdco) cause such Person to become a U.S. Guarantor by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent a counterpart of the U.S. Guaranty, and (ii) if such Person either (i) is an Offshore Subsidiary of a Designated Borrower or (ii) an Offshore Subsidiary or a U.S. Foreign Holdco that, in either case, directly or indirectly owns capital stock or other equity interests of a Designated Borrower, cause such Person to become an Offshore Guarantor of such Designated Borrower, to the extent permitted by Law, by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent a counterpart of the applicable Offshore Guaranty.
 
 
69
 
 
(c)           Notwithstanding the provisions of this or any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, (i) an Offshore Subsidiary shall only be required to guaranty the obligations of the Designated Borrower who owns or is owned by, directly or indirectly, such Offshore Subsidiary or (ii) if (A) the Administrative Agent and DeVry agree in writing that the cost, burden or consequence (including adverse tax consequences) of obtaining an Offshore Guaranty from an Offshore Subsidiary is excessive in relation to the value of such Offshore Guaranty to the Lenders or (B) such Offshore Subsidiary (1) has assets which (together with the assets of its Subsidiaries who are not Offshore Guarantors) do not exceed 10% of the consolidated assets of DeVry and its Subsidiaries at such time, and (2) has EBITDA which (together with EBITDA of its Subsidiaries who are not  Offshore Guarantors) does not exceed 10% of the Consolidated EBITDA of DeVry and its Subsidiaries at such time, then such Offshore Subsidiary shall not be required to become an Offshore Guarantor under this , it being understood that that at any time (whether or not a Default then exists), the Required Lenders may request that such Offshore Subsidiary become an Offshore Guarantor of the applicable Designated Borrower, whereupon within 45 days of such request DeVry shall (and hereby agrees that it will) cause the such Offshore Subsidiary to become an Offshore Guarantor by executing and delivery to the Administrative Agent a counterpart of the applicable Offshore Guaranty.
Section 6.12
Section 6.12
Each Guaranty executed pursuant to this is to be accompanied by such supporting documents of the types referred to in and and favorable opinions of counsel to such Person (which shall cover, among other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of such Guaranty), all in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Section 6.12
Section 4.1(a)(vi)
(vii)
           .
6
.
13
Pledgors
(a)           Cause each Loan Party (whether now or hereafter existing) which owns any stock (or equity interest) in any Subsidiary (other than a Dormant Subsidiary) to be a party to the Pledge Agreement, and pursuant to the terms of the Pledge Agreement, to grant or cause to be granted to the Administrative Agent, a first priority perfected security interest in such stock (or equity interest), subject to the following: (i) 100% of the stock held by such Loan Party of (or equity interest in) each U.S. Subsidiary that is not also a U.S. Foreign Holdco shall secure all Obligations, (ii) 65% of the stock held by such Loan Party of (or equity interest in) any U.S. Foreign Holdco and any first tier Offshore Subsidiary (to the extent that such Offshore Subsidiary is a Designated Borrower or a direct or indirect owner of a Designated Borrower) shall secure all Obligations, (iii) 100% of the stock held by such Loan Party of (or equity interest in) each Offshore Subsidiary of a Designated Borrower and each U.S. Foreign Holdco and Offshore Subsidiary that, in either case, owns, directly or indirectly, stock (or equity interest) in a Designated Borrower shall secure the Obligations of such Designated Borrower (but not the Obligations of DeVry), and (iv) the pledge of any stock of (or equity interest in) any Offshore Subsidiary or U.S. Foreign Holdco shall only be required hereunder to the extent permitted by Law.  Subject to the limitations herein, in the case of any Subsidiary created after the date hereof, DeVry shall cause the pledge of the stock (or equity interest) to be effected within 45 days of the date of creation (or such later date as agreed by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion).
(b)           Notwithstanding any provision of this or any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, it is understood that the capital stock of or equity interest in any Offshore Subsidiary (the "") shall not be required to be pledged pursuant to the Pledge Agreement if (i) the Administrative Agent and DeVry agree in writing that the cost, burden or consequences (including adverse tax consequences) of obtaining or perfecting a security interest in such Excluded Offshore Stock is excessive in relation to the value of such assets as Collateral or (ii) such Offshore Subsidiary (x) has assets which (together with the assets
Section 6.13
Excluded Offshore Stock
 
 
70
 
 
of its Subsidiaries whose stock is Excluded Offshore Stock) do not exceed 10% of the consolidated assets of DeVry and its Subsidiaries at such time, and (y) has EBITDA which (together with EBITDA of its Subsidiaries whose stock is Excluded Offshore Stock) does not exceed 10% of the Consolidated EBITDA of DeVry and its Subsidiaries, it being understood that that at any time (whether or not a Default then exists), the Required Lenders may request that DeVry cause such portion of the Excluded Offshore Stock set forth in clause (a) above to be pledged as security for the Obligations of the applicable Designated Borrower, whereupon within 45 days of such request DeVry shall (and hereby agrees that it will) cause the applicable Excluded Offshore Stock to be pledged as Offshore Stock (under and as defined in) the Pledge Agreement (such pledge to be accompanied by such documents and/or the taking of such action in connection therewith, as the Administrative Agent shall require pursuant to ).
Section 6.13(c)
(c)           In connection with the pledge of stock or equity interests pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, DeVry agrees that it will from time to time upon request of the Administrative Agent, at DeVry's expense, deliver or cause to be delivered to the Administrative Agent such pledge supplements, share certificates, stock powers, opinions of counsel, and other documents, and take or cause to be taken such other action (including the action identified in , the filing of  documents, and the payment of taxes and charges) as the Administrative Agent shall request.
Schedule 5.20
           .
6
.
14
Post-Closing Matters
To the extent not delivered on the Closing Date, within forty-five (45) days following the Closing Date (as such date may be extended by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion), deliver to the Administrative Agent the documents required to be delivered by with respect Ross University School of Medicine, School of Veterinary Medicine Limited, Ross University Management, Inc. and Ross University School of Medicine, School of Veterinary Medicine (St. Kitts) Limited.
Section 4.1(a)(vii)
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, DeVry shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly:
           .
7
.
1
Liens
Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than the following:
(a)           Liens in favor of the Administrative Agent pursuant to the Pledge Agreement;
(b)           Liens existing on the date hereof and listed on and any renewals or extensions thereof, provided that the property covered thereby is not increased and any renewal or extension of the obligations secured or benefited thereby is permitted by ;
Schedule 7.1
Section 7.3(b)
(c)           Liens for taxes not yet due or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person in accordance with GAAP;
 
 
71
 
 
(d)           carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business which are not overdue for a period of more than 30 days or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person;
(e)           pledges or deposits in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation, other than any Lien imposed by ERISA;
(f)           deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts and leases (other than Indebtedness), statutory obligations, surety bonds (other than bonds related to judgments or litigation), performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(g)           easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances affecting real property which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount, and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the applicable Person;
(h)           Liens securing judgments for the payment of money not constituting an Event of Default under or securing appeal or other surety bonds related to such judgments;
Section 8.1(h)
(i)           Liens securing Indebtedness permitted under ; provided that (i) such Liens do not at any time encumber any property other than the property financed by such Indebtedness and (ii) the Indebtedness secured thereby does not exceed the cost or fair market value, whichever is lower, of the property being acquired on the date of acquisition; and
Section 7.3(e)
(j)           Liens securing Indebtedness permitted by .
Section 7.3(f)
           .
7
.
2
Investments
Make any Investments, except:
(a)           Investments held by DeVry or such Subsidiary in the form of cash equivalents or short-term marketable debt securities;
(b)           advances to officers, directors and employees of DeVry and Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 at any time outstanding, for travel, entertainment, relocation and analogous ordinary business purposes;
(c)           Investments of DeVry in any U.S. Guarantor which is a wholly-owned Subsidiary and Investments of any U.S. Guarantor in DeVry or in another U.S. Guarantor which is a wholly-owned Subsidiary;
(d)           Investments by any Offshore Subsidiary in any other Offshore Subsidiary or in DeVry or any wholly-owned U.S. Guarantor;
(e)           Investments made prior to December 31, 2013 in respect of the Put/Call Option, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000;
 
 
72
 
 
(f)           Investments by DeVry or any U.S. Guarantor in any Designated Borrower or any Offshore Guarantor; , , that such Investments to the extent made after the Closing Date shall not at any time exceed 30% of Consolidated Net Worth;
provided
however
(g)           [reserved];
(h)           Investments consisting of extensions of credit in the nature of accounts receivable or notes receivable arising from the grant of trade credit in the ordinary course of business, and Investments received in satisfaction or partial satisfaction thereof from financially troubled account debtors to the extent reasonably necessary in order to prevent or limit loss;
(i)           Guarantees permitted by ;
Section 7.3
(j)           [reserved];
(k)           Permitted Acquisitions; and
(l)           other Investments not exceeding $50,000,000 in the aggregate.
           .
7
.
3
Indebtedness
Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Indebtedness, except:
(a)           Indebtedness comprising the Obligations;
(b)           Indebtedness outstanding on the date hereof and listed on and any refinancings, refundings, renewals or extensions thereof; provided that the amount of such Indebtedness is not increased at the time of such refinancing, refunding, renewal or extension except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium or other reasonable amount paid, and fees and expenses reasonably incurred, in connection with such refinancing and by an amount equal to any existing commitments unutilized thereunder;
Schedule 7.3
(c)           Guarantees of DeVry or any Subsidiary in respect of Indebtedness otherwise permitted hereunder of DeVry or any wholly-owned Subsidiary;
(d)           Obligations (contingent or otherwise) of DeVry or any Subsidiary existing or arising under any Swap Contract, provided that (i) such obligations are (or were) entered into by such Person in the ordinary course of business for the purpose of directly mitigating risks associated with liabilities, commitments, investments, assets, or property held or reasonably anticipated by such Person, or changes in the value of securities issued by such Person, and not for purposes of speculation or taking a "market view;" and (ii) such Swap Contract does not contain any provision exonerating the non-defaulting party from its obligation to make payments on outstanding transactions to the defaulting party;
(e)           Indebtedness in respect of capital leases, Synthetic Lease Obligations and purchase money obligations for fixed or capital assets within the limitations set forth in ; , , that the aggregate amount of all such Indebtedness at any one time outstanding shall not exceed $100,000,000;
Section 7.1(i)
provided
however
 
 
73
 
 
(f)           so long as no Default exists immediately before and after giving effect thereto, Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $300,000,000 at any time outstanding; , that such Indebtedness is either (i) unsecured or (ii) secured solely by a Lien on the Collateral which Lien shall rank junior or with the Lien of the Collateral Documents and such Liens shall be subject to an intercreditor agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent; and
provided
pari passu
(g)           intercompany Indebtedness of DeVry or any Subsidiary to the extent that such loan was permitted under .
Section 7.2
           .
7
.
4
Fundamental Changes
Merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another Person, or, except as permitted under , Dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to or in favor of any Person, except that, so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom:
Section 7.5
(a)           any U.S. Subsidiary may merge with (i) DeVry, provided that DeVry shall be the continuing or surviving Person, or (ii) any one or more other U.S. Subsidiaries, provided that when any U.S. Guarantor is merging with another Subsidiary, a U.S. Guarantor shall be the continuing or surviving Person;
(b)           any Subsidiary may Dispose of all or substantially all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to DeVry or to another Subsidiary; provided that if the transferor in such a transaction is a U.S. Guarantor, then the transferee must either be DeVry or a U.S. Guarantor; and
(c)           Dormant Subsidiaries may be dissolved.
           .
7
.
5
Dispositions
Make any Disposition or enter into any agreement to make any Disposition, except:
(a)           Dispositions of obsolete or worn out or excess property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, in the ordinary course of business;
(b)           Dispositions of inventory in the ordinary course of business;
(c)           Dispositions of equipment or real property to the extent that (i) such property is exchanged for credit against the purchase price of similar replacement property or (ii) the proceeds of such Disposition are reasonably promptly applied to the purchase price of such replacement property;
(d)           Dispositions of property by any Subsidiary to DeVry or to a Subsidiary; provided that if the transferor of such property is DeVry or a U.S. Guarantor, the transferee thereof must either be DeVry or a U.S. Guarantor;
(e)           Dispositions permitted by ;
Section 7.4(b)
(f)           Non-exclusive licenses of IP Rights (i) in the ordinary course of business and substantially consistent with past practice for terms not exceeding five years, or (ii) by any Subsidiary to DeVry or any other Subsidiary;
 
 
74
 
 
(g)           [reserved]; and
(h)           Dispositions by DeVry and its Subsidiaries not otherwise permitted under this ; that (i) at the time of such Disposition, no Default shall exist or would result from such Disposition, (ii) the aggregate net book value of all property Disposed of in reliance on this clause (h) from the Closing Date shall not exceed $100,000,000 in the aggregate, and (iii) immediately before and after giving effect to such Disposition, the financial tests set forth in , determined on a pro forma basis, shall not exceed the limits specified in ;
Section 7.5
provided
Section 7.15
Section 7.15
, , that any Disposition pursuant to clauses (a), (b), (c), (f)(i) and (h) shall be for fair market value.
provided
however
Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the Disposition (including by way of a merger or consolidation), dissolution, liquidation or winding up of any Subsidiary that is a Designated Borrower, DeVry shall terminate such Subsidiary's status as a Designated Borrower in accordance with and any Loans or other outstanding Obligations of such Subsidiary shall be assumed by DeVry.
Section 2.17(e)
           .
7
.
6
Restricted Payments
Declare or make, directly or indirectly, any Restricted Payment, or incur any obligation (contingent or otherwise) to do so, except:
(a)           DeVry may make Restricted Payments so long as (i) no Default exists immediately before and after giving effect thereto and (ii) after giving effect to such Restricted Payments on a pro forma basis, the Consolidated Leverage Ratio does not exceed 1.75:1.0; and
(b)           to the extent constituting a Restricted Payment, any Investment permitted under .
Section 7.2(e)
           .
7
.
7
Change in Nature of Business
Engage in any material line of business substantially different from those lines of business conducted by DeVry and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof or any business substantially related or incidental thereto.
           .
7
.
8
Transactions with Affiliates
Enter into any transaction of any kind with any Affiliate (other than a Subsidiary) of DeVry, whether or not in the ordinary course of business, other than on fair and reasonable terms substantially as favorable to DeVry or such Subsidiary as would be obtainable by DeVry or such Subsidiary at the time in a comparable arm's length transaction with a Person other than an Affiliate.
           .
7
.
9
Burdensome Agreements
Enter into any Contractual Obligation that;
(a)            limits the ability of any Subsidiary to make Restricted Payments to DeVry or any U.S. Guarantor or to otherwise transfer property to DeVry or any Guarantor;
 
 
75
 
 
(b)           limits the ability of any Subsidiary to Guarantee the Indebtedness of DeVry or any Designated Borrower;
(c)            limits the ability of DeVry or any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist Liens on property of such Person to secure the Obligations (it being understood that this clause (c) shall not prohibit any negative pledge incurred or provided in favor of any holder of Indebtedness permitted under (i) solely to the extent any such negative pledge relates to the property financed by or the subject of such Indebtedness and (ii) , solely to the extent that any such restriction requires such Indebtedness to be secured equally and ratably or on a subordinated basis with any Liens securing the Obligations); or
Section 7.3(e)
Section 7.3(f)
(d)           requires the grant of a Lien to secure an obligation of such Person if a Lien is granted to secure another obligation of such Person.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this shall not apply to this Agreement or any Specified Swap Contract.
Section 7.9
           .
7
.
10
Use of Proceeds
Use the proceeds of any Credit Extension, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, to purchase or carry margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U of the FRB) or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose.
           .
7
.
11
[Reserved]
           .
7
.
12
Sale and Leaseback
Enter into any arrangement, directly or indirectly, with any Person (other than a Borrower or a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary) whereby it shall sell or transfer any property, real or personal, used or useful in its business, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, and thereafter rent or lease such property or other property which it intends to use for substantially the same purpose or purposes as the property being sold or transferred (a ""); provided that DeVry or any Subsidiary may enter into any such transaction to the extent that the aggregate obligation of DeVry and its Subsidiaries shall not exceed $50,000,000.
Sale and Leaseback
           .
7
.
13
ERISA
Incur, nor permit an ERISA Affiliate to incur, any withdrawal liabilities (or become subject to contingent withdrawal liabilities) under Section 4201, 4204 or 4243 of ERISA with respect to a Multiemployer Plan which would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
           .
7
.
14
[Reserved]
           .
7
.
15
Financial Covenants
(a)           .  Permit the Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter of DeVry (commencing with the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2011) to be less than 2.00:1.0.
Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
 
 
76
 
 
(b)           Permit the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter of DeVry (commencing with the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2011) to exceed 2.75:1.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio.  
(c)           .  Permit the DOE Ratio to be less than 1.50:1 as of the end of any fiscal year of DeVry; provided that, (i) the Borrower shall not be required to comply with the DOE Ratio during any waiver or cure period extended by the DOE or (ii) if a Permitted Acquisition that has total consideration that exceeds $50,000,000 causes the DOE Ratio as of the end of the fiscal year in which that Permitted Acquisition occurred to be less than 1.50:1, than DeVry will not permit the DOE Ratio as of the end of that fiscal year to be less than 1.25:1.
Composite DOE Financial Responsibility Ratio
(d)           .  Permit the Cohort Default Rate for any School to exceed:  (i) the maximum percentage permitted by the DOE for the applicable three consecutive cohort fiscal years in order for such school to participate in Title IV Programs or (ii) the maximum percentage permitted by the DOE for the applicable cohort fiscal year in order for such school to participate in Title IV Programs.  For purposes of this , a "cohort fiscal year" is a twelve month period commencing on October 1 of a year and ending on September 30 of the following year.
Cohort Default Rate
Section 7.15(d)
(e)           .  Permit the aggregate Net Institutional Student Loans as of any reporting period to exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Worth as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter.
Institutional Student Loans
           .
8
.
1
Events of Default
Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:
(a)           .  DeVry or any other Loan Party fails to pay (i) when and as required to be paid herein, and in the currency required hereunder, any amount of principal of any Loan or any L/C Obligation, or (ii) within three Business Days after the same becomes due, any interest on any Loan or on any L/C Obligation, or any commitment or other fee due hereunder, or (iii) within five Business Days after the same becomes due, any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or
Non-Payment
(b)           .  DeVry fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of , , , , , or or ; or
Specific Covenants
Section 6.1
6.2
6.3
6.5
6.10
6.11
6.12
Article VII
(c)           .  Any Loan Party fails to perform or observe any other covenant or agreement (not specified in subsection (a) or (b) above) contained in any Loan Document on its part to be performed or observed and such failure continues for 30 days; or
Other Defaults
(d)           .  Any representation, warranty, certification or statement of fact made or deemed made by or on behalf of DeVry or any other Loan Party herein, in any other Loan Document, or in any document delivered in connection herewith or therewith shall be incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made or deemed made; or
Representations and Warranties
 
 
77
 
 
(e)           .  (i) DeVry or any Loan Party (A) fails to make any payment when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise) in respect of any Indebtedness or Guarantee (other than Indebtedness hereunder and Indebtedness under Swap Contracts) having an aggregate principal amount (including undrawn committed or available amounts and including amounts owing to all creditors under any combined or syndicated credit arrangement) of more than the Threshold Amount, or (B) fails to observe or perform any other agreement or condition relating to any such Indebtedness or Guarantee or contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or relating thereto, or any other event occurs, the effect of which default or other event is to cause, or to permit the holder or holders of such Indebtedness or the beneficiary or beneficiaries of such Guarantee (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or holders or beneficiary or beneficiaries) to cause, with the giving of notice if required, such Indebtedness to be demanded or to become due or to be repurchased, prepaid, defeased or redeemed (automatically or otherwise), or an offer to repurchase, prepay, defease or redeem such Indebtedness to be made, prior to its stated maturity, or such Guarantee to become payable or cash collateral in respect thereof to be demanded; or (ii) there occurs under any Swap Contract an Early Termination Date (as defined in such Swap Contract) resulting from (A) any event of default under such Swap Contract as to which DeVry or any Loan Party is the Defaulting Party (as defined in such Swap Contract) or (B) any Termination Event (as so defined) under such Swap Contract as to which DeVry or any Subsidiary is an Affected Party (as so defined) and, in either event, the Swap Termination Value owed by DeVry or such Loan Party as a result thereof is greater than the Threshold Amount; or
Cross-Default
(f)           .  Any Loan Party institutes or consents to the institution of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or applies for or consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer for it or for all or any material part of its property; or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer is appointed without the application or consent of such Person and the appointment continues undischarged or unstayed for 60 calendar days; or any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Person or to all or any material part of its property is instituted without the consent of such Person and continues undismissed or unstayed for 60 calendar days, or an order for relief is entered in any such proceeding; or
Insolvency Proceedings, Etc
(g)           .  (i) DeVry or any Loan Party becomes unable or admits in writing its inability or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, or (ii) any writ or warrant of attachment or execution or similar process is issued or levied against all or any material part of the property of any such Person and is not released, vacated or fully bonded within 30 days after its issue or levy; or
Inability to Pay Debts; Attachment
(h)           .  There is entered against DeVry or any Loan Party (i) a final judgment or order for the payment of money in an aggregate amount exceeding the Threshold Amount (to the extent not covered by independent third-party insurance as to which the insurer does not dispute coverage), or (ii) any one or more non-monetary final judgments that have, or could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect and, in either case, (A) enforcement proceedings are commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order, or (B) there is a period of 10 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, is not in effect; or
Judgments
 
 
78
 
 
(i)           .  Any Loan Document, at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or any Loan Party or any other Person contests in any manner the validity or enforceability of any Loan Document; or any Loan Party denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document, or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any Loan Document; or
Invalidity of Loan Documents
(j)           .  Any security interest created by the Pledge Documents shall cease to be, or shall be asserted by DeVry or any other Loan Party not to be, a valid, perfected, first priority (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement and the Pledge Documents) security interest in the securities, assets or properties covered thereby; or
Collateral
(k)           .  There occurs any Change of Control with respect to DeVry; or
Change of Control
(l)           .  An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which, when taken together with all other ERISA Events that have occurred, has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of any Loan Party under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount.
ERISA
           .
8
.
2
Remedies Upon Event of Default
If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
(a)           declare the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions to be terminated, whereupon such commitments and obligation shall be terminated;
(b)           declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by each Borrower;
(c)           require that DeVry Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations (in an amount equal to the then Outstanding Amount thereof by furnishing cash collateral to the Administrative Agent for pledge under the Pledge Agreement); and
(d)           exercise on behalf of itself and the Lenders all rights and remedies available to it and the Lenders under the Loan Documents or applicable law or equity;
, , that upon the occurrence of any Event of Default described in or , the obligation of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions shall automatically terminate, the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable, and the obligation of DeVry to Cash Collateralize (or cause the Designated Borrowers to Cash Collateralize) the L/C Obligations as aforesaid shall automatically become effective, in each case without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
provided
however
Section 8.1(f)
8.1(g)
 
 
79
 
 
           .
8
.
3
Application of Funds
After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable and the L/C Obligations have automatically been required to be Cash Collateralized as set forth in the proviso to ), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
Section 8.2
Section 8.2
First, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including Attorney Costs and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
Article III
Second, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal and interest) payable to the Lenders (including Attorney Costs and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the amounts described in this clause Second payable to them;
Article III
Third, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans and L/C Borrowings, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause Third payable to them;
Fourth, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting (i) unpaid principal of the Loans and L/C Borrowings, (ii) Swap Termination Values under any Specified Swap Contract (to the extent such Specified Swap Contract shall have been terminated and as to which the Agent shall have received notice of such termination and the Swap Termination Value thereof) and (iii) Cash Collateralize that portion of L/C Obligations comprised of the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit, all ratably among the Lenders (and in the case of Specified Swap Contracts, any Affiliate of a Lender) in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause Fourth held by them;
Last, the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the applicable Borrower or as otherwise required by Law.
Subject to , amounts used to Cash Collateralize the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit pursuant to clause Fourth above shall be applied to satisfy drawings under such Letters of Credit as they occur.  If any amount remains on deposit as Cash Collateral after all Letters of Credit have either been fully drawn or expired, such remaining amount shall be applied to the other Obligations, if any, in the order set forth above.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, payments and Cash Collateral provided by a Designated Borrower shall only be applied to the Obligations of such Designated Borrower.
Section 2.3(c)
Notwithstanding anything in this to the contrary, (x) amounts received from an Offshore Guarantor with respect to the Obligations shall only be applied to satisfy the Obligations guaranteed by such Offshore Guarantor pursuant to the Offshore Guaranty to which it is a party and (y) amounts received from a Designated Borrower with respect to the Obligations shall only be applied to satisfy the Obligations of such Designated Borrower.
Section 8.3
9.1           .
Appointment and Authority
Each of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the
 
 
80
 
 
Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.  The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, and no Loan Party shall have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
9.2           .
Rights as a Lender
The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity.  Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with any Loan Party or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
 
9.3           .
Exculpatory Provisions
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
(a)           shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
(b)           shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
(c)           shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to any Loan Party or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in and ) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct.  The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by a Borrower, a Lender or the L/C Issuer.
Sections 11.1
8.2
The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or
 
 
81
 
 
thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document, or the creation, perfection or priority of any Lien purported to be created by the Pledge Documents, (v) the value or the sufficiency of any Collateral, or (vi) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article IV
9.4           .
Reliance by Administrative Agent
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person.  The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon.  In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan, or the issuance of a Letter of Credit, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or the L/C Issuer unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender or the L/C Issuer prior to the making of such Loan or the issuance of such Letter of Credit.  The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Loan Parties), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
9.5           .
Delegation of Duties
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent.  The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties.  The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
 
9.6           .
Resignation of Administrative Agent
The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and DeVry.  Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right (subject, so long as no Event of Default exists, to the consent of DeVry, which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States.  If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify DeVry and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (a) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (except that in the case of any collateral security held by the Administrative Agent on
provided
 
 
82
 
 
behalf of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer under any of the Loan Documents, the retiring Administrative Agent shall continue to hold such collateral security until such time as a successor Administrative Agent is appointed) and (b) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender and the L/C Issuer directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section.  Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section).  The fees payable by DeVry to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between DeVry and such successor.  After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
Section 11.4
Any resignation by Bank of America as Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section shall also constitute its resignation as L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender.  In connection with such resignation as L/C Issuer, Bank of America shall retain all the rights, powers, privileges and obligations of the L/C Issuer hereunder with respect to all Letters of Credit outstanding as of the effective date of its resignation as L/C Issuer and all L/C Obligations with respect thereto (including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Revolving Loans or fund risk participations in Unreimbursed Amounts pursuant to ).  In connection with such resignation as Swing Line Lender, Bank of America shall retain all the rights of the Swing Line Lender provided for hereunder with respect to Swing Line Loans made by it and outstanding as of the effective date of such resignation, including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Revolving Loans or fund risk participations in outstanding Swing Line Loans pursuant to .  Upon the appointment of a successor Administrative Agent hereunder, (1) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender and (2) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to the retiring L/C Issuer to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring L/C Issuer with respect to such Letters of Credit.
Section 2.3(c)
Section 2.4(c)
 
9.7           .
Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
Each Lender and the L/C Issuer acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement.  Each Lender and the L/C Issuer also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
 
9.8           .
No Other Duties; Etc
Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the bookrunners, arrangers, syndication agents, documentation agents or co-agents shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent, a Lender or the L/C Issuer hereunder.
 
 
83
 
 
9.9           .
Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or any other judicial proceeding relative to any Loan Party, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan or L/C Obligation shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on any Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise:
(a)           to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans, L/C Obligations and all other Obligations arising under the Loan Documents that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent under and , and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.3(h)
(i)
2.9
11.4
(b)           to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender and the L/C Issuer to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, if the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.9
11.4
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender or the L/C Issuer any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or the L/C Issuer to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender or the L/C Issuer in any such proceeding.
 
9.10           .
Collateral and Guaranty Matters
The Lenders and the L/C Issuer irrevocably authorize the Administrative Agent, at its option and in its discretion,
(a)           to release or authorize the release of any Lien (if any) on any property granted to or held by the Administrative Agent under any Loan Document (i) upon termination of the Aggregate Commitments and payment in full of all Obligations (other than contingent indemnification obligations) and the expiration or termination of all Letters of Credit (other than Letters of Credit as to which other arrangements satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer shall have been made), (ii) that comprises a Disposition consented to by the Required Lenders or that is transferred or to be transferred as part of or in connection with any Disposition permitted hereunder or under any other Loan Document, or (iii) as approved in accordance with ; and
Section 11.1
(b)           to release any Guarantor from its obligations under a Guaranty if such Person ceases to be a Subsidiary as a result of a transaction permitted hereunder or if, as a result in a change in tax law (which is applicable to an existing Guaranty), such Person would not be required to provide a Guaranty under .
Section 6.12
 
 
84
 
 
Upon request by the Administrative Agent at any time, the Required Lenders will confirm in writing the Administrative Agent's authority to release its interest in particular types or items of property, or to release any Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty, pursuant to this .
Section 9.11
           .
10
.
1
Guaranty
DeVry hereby absolutely and unconditionally guarantees, as a guarantee of payment and not merely as a guarantee of collection, prompt payment when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, and at all times thereafter, of any and all Obligations of each Designated Borrower (including all renewals, extensions and modifications thereof and all costs, attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Lenders in connection with the collection or enforcement thereof) (collectively, the "").  The books and records of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders showing the amount of the Guaranteed Obligations shall be admissible in evidence in any action or proceeding, and shall be binding upon DeVry and conclusive, absent manifest error, for the purpose of establishing the amount of the Guaranteed Obligations.  This guaranty shall not be affected by the genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of the Guaranteed Obligations or any instrument or agreement evidencing any Guaranteed Obligations, or by the existence, validity, enforceability, perfection, or extent of any collateral therefore, or by any fact or circumstance relating to the Guaranteed Obligations which might otherwise constitute a defense to the obligations of DeVry hereunder.
Guaranteed Obligations
           .
10
.
2
No Termination
The obligations of DeVry under this constitute a continuing and irrevocable guaranty of all Guaranteed Obligations now or hereafter existing and shall remain in full force and effect until all Guaranteed Obligations and any other amounts payable under this are indefeasibly paid and performed in full and the Commitments of the Lenders with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations are terminated.
Article X
Article X
           .
10
.
3
Waiver of Notices
DeVry waives notice of the extension or continuation of the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof.  DeVry further waives presentment, protest, notice, dishonor or default, demand for payment and any other notices to which DeVry might otherwise be entitled.
           .
10
.
4
Subrogation
DeVry shall exercise no right of subrogation, contribution or similar rights with respect to any payments it makes in respect of this guaranty until all of the Guaranteed Obligations and any amounts payable under this are indefeasibly paid and performed in full and the Commitments of the Lenders are terminated.  If any amounts are paid to DeVry in violation of the foregoing limitation, then such amounts shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Lenders and shall forthwith be paid to the Lenders to reduce the amount of the Guaranteed Obligations, whether matured or unmatured.
Article X
 
 
85
 
 
           .
10
.
5
Waiver of Suretyship Defenses
DeVry agrees that the Administrative Agent and Lenders may, at any time and from time to time, and without notice to DeVry, make any agreement with any Designated Borrower or with any other person or entity liable on any of the Guaranteed Obligations or providing collateral as security for the Guaranteed Obligations, for the extension, renewal, payment, compromise, discharge or release of the Guaranteed Obligations or any collateral (in whole or in part), or for any modification or amendment of the terms thereof or of any instrument or agreement evidencing the Guaranteed Obligations or the provision of collateral, all without in any way impairing, releasing, discharging or otherwise affecting the obligations of DeVry under this .  DeVry waives any defense arising by reason of any disability or other defense of any Designated Borrower or any other Loan Party, or the cessation from any cause whatsoever of the liability of such Designated Borrower, or any claim that DeVry's obligations exceed or are more burdensome than those of such Designated Borrower and waives the benefit of any statute of limitations affecting the liability of the Administrative Agent or DeVry hereunder.  DeVry waives any right to enforce any remedy which the Administrative Agent or Lenders now have or may hereafter have against any Designated Borrower and waives any benefit of and any right to participate in any security now or hereafter held by the Lenders.  Further, DeVry consents to the taking of, or failure to take, any action which might in any manner or to any extent vary the risks of DeVry under this or which, but for this provision, might operate as a discharge of DeVry.
Article X
Article X
           .
10
.
6
Exhaustion of Other Remedies Not Required
The obligations of DeVry in respect of this guaranty are those of primary obligor, and not merely as surety, and are independent of the Guaranteed Obligations.  DeVry waives diligence by the Lenders and action on delinquency in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof, including, without limitation any provisions of law requiring the Lenders to exhaust any right or remedy or to take any action against any Designated Borrower, or any other person, entity or property before enforcing this guaranty against DeVry.
           .
10
.
7
Reinstatement
Notwithstanding anything in this to the contrary, the obligations of DeVry under this shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any payment of any portion of the Guaranteed Obligations is revoked, terminated, rescinded or reduced or must otherwise be restored or returned upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of any Designated Borrower or any other person or entity or otherwise, as if such payment had not been made and whether or not the Lenders is in possession of or has released DeVry from the obligations of this and regardless of any prior revocation, rescission, termination or reduction.
Article X
Article X
Article X
           .
10
.
8
Subordination
DeVry hereby subordinates the payment of all obligations and indebtedness of each Designated Borrower owing to DeVry, whether now existing or hereafter arising, including but not limited to any obligation of such Designated Borrower to DeVry as subrogee of the Lenders or resulting from DeVry's performance under this , to the indefeasible payment in full of all Guaranteed Obligations.  If the Lenders so request, any such obligation or indebtedness of the applicable Designated Borrower to DeVry shall be enforced and performance received by DeVry as trustee for the Lenders and the proceeds thereof shall be paid over to the Lenders on account of the Guaranteed Obligations, but without reducing or affecting in any manner the liability of DeVry under this .
Article X
Article X
 
 
86
 
 
           .
10
.
9
Stay of Acceleration
In the event that acceleration of the time for payment of any of the Guaranteed Obligations is stayed, upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of any Designated Borrower or any other person or entity, or otherwise, all such amounts shall nonetheless be payable by DeVry immediately upon demand by the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders.
           .
10
.
10
Condition of Designated Borrowers
DeVry acknowledges and agrees that it has the sole responsibility for, and has adequate means of, obtaining from each Designated Borrower, such information concerning the financial condition, business and operations of such Designated Borrower as DeVry requires, and that neither the Administrative Agent nor the Lenders have any duty, and DeVry is not relying on the Administrative Agent or Lenders at any time, to disclose to DeVry any information relating to the business, operations or financial condition of any Designated Borrower.
           .
11
.
1
.
Amendments, Etc
No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by DeVry or any other Loan Party therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and DeVry or the applicable Loan Party, as the case may be, and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
provided
however
(a)           except as provided in , waive any condition set forth in , without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 4.1
Section 4.1(a)
(b)           extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to ), without the written consent of such Lender whose Commitment is being extended or increased (it being understood and agreed that a waiver of any condition precedent set forth in or of any Default or a mandatory reduction in Commitments is not considered an extension or increase in Commitments of any Lender);
Section 8.2
Section 4.2
(c)           postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment (excluding mandatory prepayments) of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) or any scheduled or mandatory reduction of the Aggregate Commitments hereunder or under any other Loan Document, without the written consent of each Lender entitled to receive such payment or whose Commitments are to be reduced;
(d)           reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan or L/C Borrowing, or (subject to clause (iv) of the second proviso to this ) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary (i) to amend the definition of "" or to waive any obligation of the Borrowers to pay interest or Letter of Credit Fees at the Default Rate or (ii) to amend any financial covenant hereunder (or any defined term used therein) even if the effect of such amendment would be to reduce the rate of interest on any Loan or L/C Borrowing or to reduce any fee payable hereunder;
Section 11.1
provided
however
Default Rate
 
 
87
 
 
(e)           change in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 8.3
(f)           change any provision of this Section or the definition of "" without the written consent of each Lender;
Required Lenders
(g)           release DeVry without the consent of each Lender, or, except for releases pursuant to , release any Guarantor from any Guaranty to the extent that the assets or revenues of such Guarantor (together with the assets or revenues of all other Guarantors then or theretofore released hereunder) represent all or a substantial part of the consolidated assets or consolidated revenues of DeVry, without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 9.10(b)
(h)           release or authorize the release of all or any substantial portion of the Collateral under the Pledge Agreement without the written consent of each Lender, it being understood  that to the extent that Collateral comprises assets which are permitted to be sold pursuant to such Collateral may be released without the consent of any of the Lenders;
Section 7.5
(i)           amend or the definition of "Alternative Currency" without the written consent of each Lender; or
Section 1.8
(j)           change in a manner that would alter the requirement that each of the Lenders approve the addition of a Designated Borrower, without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 2.17
and, , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the L/C Issuer in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the L/C Issuer in its capacity as such under this Agreement or any Letter of Credit Application relating to any Letter of Credit issued or to be issued by it; (ii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Swing Line Lender in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Swing Line Lender in its capacity as such under this Agreement; (iii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; (iv) the Engagement Letter may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto directly affected thereby and (v) only the written consent of the Administrative Agent and the Loan Parties shall be required to amend this Agreement solely to implement requirements reasonably deemed necessary by the Administrative Agent to add a Designated Borrower or to obtain pledges of capital stock or other equity interests in Offshore Subsidiaries in accordance with this Agreement.
provided
further
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder (and any amendment, waiver or consent which by its terms requires the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender may be effected with the consent of the applicable Lenders other than Defaulting Lenders), except that (x) the Commitment of any Defaulting Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender and (y) any waiver, amendment or modification requiring the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender that by its terms affects any Defaulting Lender more adversely than other affected Lenders shall require the consent of such Defaulting Lender.
 
 
88
 
 
           .
11
.
2
.
Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication
(a)           .  Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in subsection (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
Notices Generally
(i)           if to a Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 11.2
(ii)           if to any other Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire (including, as appropriate, notices delivered solely to the Person designated by a Lender on its Administrative Questionnaire then in effect for the delivery of notices that may contain material non-public information relating to DeVry).
Notices and other communications sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices and other communications sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient).  Notices and other communications delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in subsection (b) below, shall be effective as provided in such subsection (b).
(b)           .  Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent,  provided that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or the L/C Issuer pursuant to if such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication.  The Administrative Agent or DeVry may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, provided that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
Article II
Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), provided that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefore.
return receipt requested
 
 
89
 
 
(c)           .  THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE."  THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS.  NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM.  In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to any Borrower, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of any Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to any Borrower, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
(d)           .  Each of the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto.  Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to DeVry, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender.  In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender.  Furthermore, each Public Lender agrees to cause at least one individual at or on behalf of such Public Lender to at all times have selected the "Private Side Information" or similar designation on the content declaration screen of the Platform in order to enable such Public Lender or its delegate, in accordance with such Public Lender's compliance procedures and applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws, to make reference to Borrower Materials that are not made available through the "Public Side Information" portion of the Platform and that may contain material non-public information with respect to any Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal or state securities laws.
Change of Address, Etc
(e)           .  The Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Revolving Loan Notices and Swing Line Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of any Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof.  DeVry shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of any Borrower.  All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Lenders
 
 
90
 
 
           .
11
.
3
.
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies; Enforcement
No failure by any Lender or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder or under any other Loan Document (including the imposition of the Default Rate) preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege.  The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in any other Loan Document, the authority to enforce rights and remedies hereunder and under the other Loan Documents against the Loan Parties or any of them shall be vested exclusively in, and all actions and proceedings at law in connection with such enforcement shall be instituted and maintained exclusively by, the Administrative Agent in accordance with for the benefit of all the Lenders and the L/C Issuer; , , that the foregoing shall not prohibit (a) the Administrative Agent from exercising on its own behalf the rights and remedies that inure to its benefit (solely in its capacity as Administrative Agent) hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (b) the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender from exercising the rights and remedies that inure to its benefit (solely in its capacity as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be) hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (c) any Lender from exercising setoff rights in accordance with (subject to the terms of ), or (d) any Lender from filing proofs of claim or appearing and filing pleadings on its own behalf during the pendency of a proceeding relative to any Loan Party under any Debtor Relief Law; and , , that if at any time there is no Person acting as Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, then (i) the Required Lenders shall have the rights otherwise ascribed to the Administrative Agent pursuant to and (ii) in addition to the matters set forth in clauses (b), (c) and (d) of the preceding proviso and subject to , any Lender may, with the consent of the Required Lenders, enforce any rights and remedies available to it and as authorized by the Required Lenders.
Section 8.2
provided
however
Section 11.9
Section 2.13
provided
further
Section 8.2
Section 2.13
           .
11
.
4
.
Expenses; Indemnity; and Damage Waiver
(a)           .  DeVry shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the L/C Issuer in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer), and shall pay all fees and time charges for attorneys who may be employees of the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit.
Costs and Expenses
 
 
91
 
 
(b)           .  Each Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each Lender and the L/C Issuer, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), and shall indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnitee from all fees and time charges and disbursements for attorneys who may be employees of any Indemnitee, incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by any Loan Party arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (including in respect of any matters addressed in ), (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by the L/C Issuer to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by a Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to a Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by any Loan Party, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by any Loan Party against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if such Loan Party has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Indemnification by the Borrowers
Indemnitee
Section 3.1
provided
(c)           .  To the extent that the Borrowers for any reason fail to indefeasibly pay any amount required under subsection (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by them to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof), the L/C Issuer or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent), the L/C Issuer or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Pro Rata Share (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or the L/C Issuer in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or L/C Issuer in connection with such capacity.  The obligations of the Lenders under this subsection (c) are subject to the provisions of .
Reimbursement by Lenders
provided
Section 2.12(d)
(d)             To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no Loan Party shall assert, and each Loan Party hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof.  No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual damages resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc.
 
 
92
 
 
(e)           .  All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after demand therefor.
Payments
(f)           .  The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
           .
11
.
5
.
[Reserved]
           .
11
.
6
.
Payments Set Aside
To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of any Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent or any Lender exercises its right of set-off, and such payment or the proceeds of such set-off or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such set-off had not occurred, and (b) each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect, in the applicable currency of such recovery or payment. The obligations of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
plus
           .
11
.
7
.
Successors and Assigns
(a)           .  The provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and thereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that no Borrower may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder or thereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this , (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of subsection (d) of this , or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of subsection (f) of this (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void).  Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in subsection (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns Generally
Section 11.7
Section 11.7
Section 11.7
(b)           .  Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans (including for purposes of this subsection (b), participations in L/C Obligations and in Swing Line Loans) at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
 
 
93
 
 
(i)           .
Minimum Amounts
(A)           in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
(B)           in any case not described in subsection (b)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, DeVry otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single assignee (or to an assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met;
provided
however
(ii)           .  Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's Loans and Commitments, and rights and obligations with respect thereto assigned (i.e., the same proportionate assignment by a Lender of the Obligations owing to it by DeVry and the Designated Borrowers, respectfully), except that this clause (ii) shall not apply to the Swing Line Lender's rights and obligations in respect of Swing Line Loans;
Proportionate Amounts
(iii)           .  No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by subsection (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
(A)           the consent of DeVry (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund;
(B)           the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for assignments in respect of any Commitment if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender; and
(C)           the consent of the L/C Issuer (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment that increases the obligation of the assignee to participate in exposure under one or more Letters of Credit (whether or not then outstanding); and
(D)           the consent of the Swing Line Lender (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment in respect of Revolving Loans and Commitments.
 
 
94
 
 
(iv)           .  The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount of $3,500 (it being understood that pursuant to such Assignment and Assumption Agreement the assignee shall be bound by the terms of the Pledge Agreement); , , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment.  The assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
provided
however
(v)           .  No such assignment shall be made to (A) DeVry or any of DeVry's Affiliates or Subsidiaries or (B) to any Defaulting Lender or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Person who, upon becoming a Lender hereunder, would constitute any of the foregoing Persons described in this clause (B), or (C) to a natural person.
No Assignment to Certain Persons
(vi)           .  No such assignment shall be made to any Person that, on the effective date of such assignment, through its Lending Offices, is not capable of lending to the relevant Borrowers without the imposition of any additional Taxes that would require indemnification payments by the relevant Borrowers under this Agreement.
No Assignment Resulting in Additional Indemnified Taxes
(vii)           .  In connection with any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder, no such assignment shall be effective unless and until, in addition to the other conditions thereto set forth herein, the parties to the assignment shall make such additional payments to the Administrative Agent in an aggregate amount sufficient, upon distribution thereof as appropriate (which may be outright payment, purchases by the assignee of participations or subparticipations, or other compensating actions, including funding, with the consent of DeVry and the Administrative Agent, the applicable pro rata share of Loans previously requested but not funded by the Defaulting Lender, to each of which the applicable assignee and assignor hereby irrevocably consent), to (x) pay and satisfy in full all payment liabilities then owed by such Defaulting Lender to the Administrative Agent or any Lender hereunder (and interest accrued thereon) and (y) acquire (and fund as appropriate) its full pro rata share of all Loans and participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans in accordance with its Pro Rata Share.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder shall become effective under applicable Law without compliance with the provisions of this paragraph, then the assignee of such interest shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender for all purposes of this Agreement until such compliance occurs.
Certain Additional Payments
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment).  Upon request,
Sections 3.1
3.4
3.5
11.4
 
 
95
 
 
the applicable Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender.  Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection (d) of this Section.
(c)           .  The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers (and such agency being solely for tax purposes), shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans and L/C Obligations owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "").  The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary.  In addition, the Administrative Agent shall maintain on the Register information regarding the designation, and revocation of designation, of any Lender as a Defaulting Lender.  The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrowers and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
Register
(d)           .  Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrowers or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or DeVry or any of DeVry's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans (including such Lender's participations in L/C Obligations and/or Swing Line Loans) owing to it); provided that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement.  Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any  provision of this Agreement; provided that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to that directly affects such Participant.  Subject to subsection (e) of this Section, each Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section.  To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
Participations
Participant
Section 11.1
Sections 3.1
3.4
3.5
Section 11.9
Section 2.13
(e)           .  A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with such Borrower's prior written consent.  A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless such Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of such Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitation on Participant Rights
Section 3.1
3.4
Section 3.1
Section 11.15
 
 
96
 
 
(f)           .  Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; provided that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
(g)           .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if at any time Bank of America assigns all of its Commitment and Loans pursuant to subsection 11.7(b) above, Bank of America may, (i) upon 30 days' notice to DeVry and the Lenders, resign as L/C Issuer and/or (ii) upon 30 days' notice to DeVry, resign as Swing Line Lender.  In the event of any such resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, DeVry shall be entitled to appoint from among the Lenders a successor L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender hereunder; , , that no failure by DeVry to appoint any such successor shall affect the resignation of Bank of America as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be.  If Bank of America resigns as L/C Issuer, it shall retain all the rights, powers, privileges and obligations of the L/C Issuer hereunder with respect to all Letters of Credit outstanding as of the effective date of its resignation as L/C Issuer and all L/C Obligations with respect thereto (including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Revolving Loans or fund risk participations in Unreimbursed Amounts pursuant to ).  If Bank of America resigns as Swing Line Lender, it shall retain all the rights of the Swing Line Lender provided for hereunder with respect to Swing Line Loans made by it and outstanding as of the effective date of such resignation, including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Revolving Loans or fund risk participations in outstanding Swing Line Loans pursuant to .  Upon the appointment of a successor L/C Issuer and/or Swing Line Lender, (1) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, and (2) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to Bank of America to effectively assume the obligations of Bank of America with respect to such Letters of Credit.
Resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender after Assignment
provided
however
Section 2.3(c)
Section 2.4(c)
           .
11
.
8
.
Confidentiality
Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its Affiliates' respective directors, officers, partners, employees, trustees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential); (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners; (c) to the extent  required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process; (d) to any other party to this Agreement; (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder; (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement (or any Person invited to become a Lender pursuant to ) or (ii) any direct or indirect contractual counterparty or prospective counterparty (or such contractual counterparty's or prospective counterparty's professional advisor) to any credit derivative transaction relating to obligations of the Loan Parties; (g) with the consent of DeVry; or (h) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this
Section 2.14
 
 
97
 
 
Section or (ii) becomes available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than DeVry.  In addition, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may disclose the existence of this Agreement and information about this Agreement to market data collectors, similar service providers to the lending industry, and service providers to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders in connection with the administration and management of this Agreement, the other Loan Documents, the Commitments, and the Credit Extensions.  For the purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from any Loan Party relating to any Loan Party or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by any Loan Party; provided that, in the case of information received from a Loan Party after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified in writing at the time of delivery as confidential.  Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning a Loan Party or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws.
           .
11
.
9
.
Set-off
In addition to any rights and remedies of the Lenders provided by law, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, each Lender is authorized at any time and from time to time, without prior notice to DeVry or any other Loan Party, any such notice being waived by DeVry (on its own behalf and on behalf of each Loan Party) to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held by, and other indebtedness at any time owing by, such Lender to or for the credit or the account of the respective Loan Parties against any and all Obligations owing to such Lender by such Loan Party hereunder or under any other Loan Document, now or hereafter existing, irrespective of whether or not the Administrative Agent or such Lender shall have made demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such Obligations may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness; , that in the event that any Defaulting Lender shall exercise any such right of setoff, (x) all amounts so set off shall be paid over immediately to the Administrative Agent for further application in accordance with the provisions of and, pending such payment, shall be segregated by such Defaulting Lender from its other funds and deemed held in trust for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and (y) the Defaulting Lender shall provide promptly to the Administrative Agent a statement describing in reasonable detail the Obligations owing to such Defaulting Lender as to which it exercised such right of setoff.  The rights of each Lender and its Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender or its Affiliates may have.  Each Lender agrees promptly to notify DeVry and the Administrative Agent after any such set-off and application made by such Lender; , , that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application.
provided
Section 2.16
provided
however
           .
11
.
10
.
Interest Rate Limitation
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the "").  If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall
Maximum Rate
 
 
98
 
 
receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the applicable Borrower.  In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
           .
11
.
11
.
Counterparts
This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy or other electronic imaging means shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
           .
11
.
12
.
Integration
This Agreement, together with the other Loan Documents, comprises the complete and integrated agreement of the parties on the subject matter hereof and thereof and supersedes all prior agreements, written or oral, on such subject matter.  In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of any other Loan Document, the provisions of this Agreement shall control; provided that the inclusion of supplemental rights or remedies in favor of the Administrative Agent or the Lenders in any other Loan Document shall not be deemed a conflict with this Agreement.  Each Loan Document was drafted with the joint participation of the respective parties thereto and shall be construed neither against nor in favor of any party, but rather in accordance with the fair meaning thereof.
           .
11
.
13
.
Survival of Representations and Warranties
All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof.  Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Credit Extension, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding.
           .
11
.
14
.
Severability
If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions.  The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.  Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this , if and to the extent that the enforceability of any provisions in this Agreement relating to Defaulting Lenders shall be limited by Debtor Relief Laws, as determined in good faith by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender, as applicable, then such provisions shall be deemed to be in effect only to the extent not so limited.
Section 11.14
 
 
99
 
 
    .
11
.
15
.
Tax Forms
(a)            (i)  Each Lender that is not a "United States person" within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code (a "") shall deliver to the Administrative Agent, the date on which the first payment to such Lender is due hereunder (or upon accepting an assignment of an interest herein), two duly signed completed copies of either IRS Form W-8BEN or any successor thereto (relating to such Foreign Lender and entitling it to a complete exemption from U.S. withholding tax on all payments to be made to such Foreign Lender by the Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement) or IRS Form W-8ECI or any successor thereto (relating to all payments to be made to such Foreign Lender by the Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement) or such other evidence satisfactory to the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent that such Foreign Lender is entitled to a complete exemption from U.S. withholding tax, including any exemption pursuant to Section 881(c) of the Code.  Thereafter and from time to time, each such Foreign Lender shall (A) promptly submit to the Administrative Agent such additional duly completed and signed copies of one of such forms (or such successor forms as shall be adopted from time to time by the relevant United States taxing authorities) as may then be available under then current United States laws and regulations to avoid, or such evidence as is satisfactory to the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent of any available exemption from United States withholding taxes in respect of all payments to be made to such Foreign Lender by the Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement, (B) promptly notify the Administrative Agent of any change in circumstances which would modify or render invalid any claimed exemption, and (C) take such steps as shall not be materially disadvantageous to it, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, and as may be reasonably necessary (including the re-designation of its Lending Office) to avoid any requirement of applicable Laws that the Borrowers make any deduction or withholding for U.S. Taxes from amounts payable to such Foreign Lender.
Foreign Lender
(ii)            Each Foreign Lender, to the extent it does not act or ceases to act for its own account with respect to any portion of any sums paid or payable to such Lender under any of the Loan Documents (for example, in the case of a typical participation by such Lender), shall deliver to the Administrative Agent on the date when such Foreign Lender ceases to act for its own account with respect to any portion of any such sums paid or payable, and at such other times as may be necessary in the determination of the Administrative Agent (in the reasonable exercise of its discretion), (A) two duly signed completed copies of the forms or statements required to be provided by such Lender as set forth above, to establish the portion of any such sums paid or payable with respect to which such Lender acts for its own account that is not subject to U.S. withholding tax, and (B) two duly signed completed copies of IRS Form W-8IMY (or any successor thereto), together with any information such Lender chooses to transmit with such form, and any other certificate or statement of exemption required under the Code, to establish that such Lender is not acting for its own account with respect to a portion of any such sums payable to such Lender.
(iii)            Neither Borrower shall be required to pay any additional amount to any Foreign Lender under with respect to any U.S. Taxes required to be deducted or withheld on the basis of the information, certificates or statements of exemption such Lender transmits with an IRS Form W-8IMY pursuant to this
Section 3.1(a)
 
 
100
 
 
or if such Lender shall have failed to satisfy the foregoing provisions of this ; provided that if such Lender shall have satisfied the requirement of this on the date such Lender became a Lender or ceased to act for its own account with respect to any payment under any of the Loan Documents, nothing in this shall relieve any Borrower of its obligation to pay any amounts pursuant to in the event that, as a result of any change in any applicable law, treaty or governmental rule, regulation or order, or any change in the interpretation, administration or application thereof, such Lender is no longer properly entitled to deliver forms, certificates or other evidence at a subsequent date establishing the fact that such Lender or other Person for the account of which such Lender receives any sums payable under any of the Loan Documents is not subject to U.S. withholding tax or is subject to U.S. withholding tax at a reduced rate.
Section 11.15(a)
(b)
Section 11.15(a)
Section 11.15(a)
Section 11.15(a)
Section 3.1
(iv)            The Administrative Agent may, without reduction, withhold any Taxes required to be deducted and withheld from any payment under any of the Loan Documents with respect to which the Borrowers are not required to pay additional amounts under this .
Section 11.15(a)
(b)           Upon the request of the Administrative Agent, each Lender that is a "United States person" within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code shall deliver to the Administrative Agent two duly signed completed copies of IRS Form W-9.  If such Lender fails to deliver such forms, then the Administrative Agent may withhold from any interest payment to such Lender an amount equivalent to the applicable back-up withholding tax imposed by the Code, without reduction.
(c)           If any Governmental Authority asserts that the Administrative Agent did not properly withhold or backup withhold, as the case may be, any tax or other amount from payments made to or for the account of any Lender, such Lender shall indemnify the Administrative Agent therefore, including all penalties and interest, any taxes imposed by any jurisdiction on the amounts payable to the Administrative Agent under this Section, and costs and expenses (including Attorney Costs) of the Administrative Agent.  The obligation of the Lenders under this Section shall survive the termination of the Aggregate Commitments, repayment of all other Obligations hereunder and the resignation of the Administrative Agent.
(d)           If a payment made to a Lender under this Agreement would be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to each Borrower and the Administrative Agent, at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by either the Borrowers or the Administrative Agent, such documentation prescribed by applicable law and such additional documentation reasonably requested by either the Borrowers or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, as may be necessary for either the Borrowers or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to comply with its obligations under FATCA, to determine that such Lender has complied with such Lenders obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment.
           .
11
.
16
.
Replacement of Lenders
If (i) any Lender requests compensation under , (ii) any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , (iii) a Lender (a "") does not consent to a proposed
Section 3.4
Section 3.1
Non-Consenting Lender
 
 
101
 
 
change, waiver, discharge or termination with respect to any Loan Document that has been approved by the Required Lenders as provided in but requires unanimous consent of all Lenders or all Lenders directly affected thereby (as applicable) or (iv)any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, then DeVry may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that:
Section 11.1
 
Section 11.7
provided
(a)           DeVry shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in ;
Section 11.7(b)
(b)           such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and L/C Advances, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under ) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the applicable Borrower(s) (in the case of all other amounts);
Section 3.5
(c)           in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter;
Section 3.4
Section 3.1
(d)           such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws; and
(e)           in the case of any such assignment resulting from a Non-Consenting Lender's failure to consent to a proposed change, waiver, discharge or termination with respect to any Loan Document, the applicable replacement bank, financial institution or Fund consents to the proposed change, waiver, discharge or termination; that the failure by such Non-Consenting Lender to execute and deliver an Assignment and Assumption shall not impair the validity of the removal of such Non-Consenting Lender and the mandatory assignment of such Non-Consenting Lender's Commitments and outstanding Loans and participations in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans pursuant to this shall nevertheless be effective without the execution by such Non-Consenting Lender of an Assignment and Assumption.
provided
Section 11.16
A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling DeVry to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
    .
11
.
17
.
Governing Law
(a)           THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, the LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED ENTIRELY WITHIN SUCH STATE; PROVIDED THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH LENDER SHALL RETAIN ALL RIGHTS ARISING UNDER FEDERAL LAW.
(b)           ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING WITH RESPECT TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT MAY BE BROUGHT IN THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK OR OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF SUCH STATE, AND BY EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS AGREEMENT, EACH BORROWER, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH LENDER CONSENTS, FOR ITSELF AND IN
 
 
102
 
 
RESPECT OF ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THOSE COURTS.  EACH BORROWER, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH LENDER IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION, INCLUDING ANY OBJECTION TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OR BASED ON THE GROUNDS OF FORUM NON CONVENIENS, WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE BRINGING OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN SUCH JURISDICTION IN RESPECT OF ANY LOAN DOCUMENT OR OTHER DOCUMENT RELATED THERETO.  EACH BORROWER, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH LENDER WAIVES PERSONAL SERVICE OF ANY SUMMONS, COMPLAINT OR OTHER PROCESS, WHICH MAY BE MADE BY ANY OTHER MEANS PERMITTED BY THE LAW OF SUCH STATE.
           .
11
.
18
.
Service of Process on the Designated Borrowers
Each Designated Borrower hereby irrevocably designates, appoints and empowers DeVry, and successors as the designee, appointee and agent of such Designated Borrower to receive, accept and acknowledge, for and on behalf of such Designated Borrower and its properties, service of any and all legal process, summons, notices and documents which may be served in such action, suit or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the Loan Documents in the case of the courts of the Southern District of New York or of the courts of the State of New York sitting in the city of New York, which service may be made on any such designee, appointee and agent in accordance with legal procedures prescribed for such courts.  Each Designated Borrower agrees to take any and all action necessary to continue such designation in full force and effect and should such designee, appointee and agent become unavailable for this purpose for any reason, such Designated Borrower will forthwith irrevocably designate a new designee, appointee and agent, which shall irrevocably agree to act as such, with the powers and for purposes specified in this .  Each Designated Borrower further irrevocably consents and agrees to service of any and all legal process, summons, notices and documents out of any of the aforesaid courts in any such action, suit or proceeding relating to the Designated Borrower Notes or this Agreement or the other Loan Documents delivered to such Designated Borrower in accordance with this or to its then designee, appointee or agent for service.  If service is made upon such designee, appointee and agent, a copy of such process, summons, notice or document shall also be provided to the applicable Designated Borrower at the address specified in by registered or certified mail, or overnight express air courier; provided that failure of such holder to provide such copy to such Designated Borrower shall not impair or affect in any way the validity of such service or any judgment rendered in such action or proceedings.  Each Designated Borrower agrees that service upon such Designated Borrower or any such designee, appointee and agent as provided for herein shall constitute valid and effective personal service upon such Designated Borrower with respect to matters contemplated in this and that the failure of any such designee, appointee and agent to give any notice of such service to such Designated Borrower shall not impair or affect in any way the validity of such service or any judgment rendered in any action or proceeding based thereon.  Nothing herein shall, or shall be construed so as to, limit the right of the Administrative Agent or the Lenders to bring actions, suits or proceedings with respect to the obligations and liabilities of each Designated Borrower under, or any other matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment rendered in any such action, suit or proceeding, in the courts of whatever jurisdiction in which the respective offices of the Administrative Agent or the Lenders may be located or assets of such Designated Borrower may be found or as otherwise shall to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders seem appropriate, or to affect the right to service of process in any jurisdiction in any other manner permitted by law.
Section 11.18
Section 11.18
Section 11.2
Section 11.18
 
 
103
 
 
           .
11
.
19
.
Waiver of Right to Trial by Jury
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY).  EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
           .
11
.
20
.
Judgment Currency
If, for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder or any other Loan Document in one currency into another currency, the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the first currency with such other currency on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.  The obligation of each Borrower in respect of any such sum due from it to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders hereunder or under the other Loan Documents shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "") other than that in which such sum is denominated in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement (the ""), be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Administrative Agent may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency.  If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent from any Borrower in the Agreement Currency, such Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Administrative Agent or the Person to whom such obligation was owing against such loss.  If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is greater than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent in such currency, the Administrative Agent agrees to return the amount of any excess to such Borrower (or to any other Person who may be entitled thereto under applicable law).
Judgment Currency
Agreement Currency
           .
11
.
21
.
Obligations of DeVry
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or in the other Loan Documents, in no event shall any Designated Borrower or any Offshore Guarantor be liable for any of the direct Obligations of DeVry.
           .
11
.
22
.
Authorization of Pledge Agreement
Each Lender hereby (i) authorizes the Administrative Agent to execute and deliver the Pledge Agreement on behalf of such Lender and (ii) agrees to be bound by the terms thereof (as a Lender and a Secured Party thereunder).
           .
11
.
23
.
USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Each Lender that is subject to the Patriot Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrowers that pursuant to the
 
 
104
 
 
requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrowers, which information includes the name and address of each Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify such Borrower in accordance with the .
Patriot Act
Patriot Act.  Each Borrower shall, promptly following a request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, provide all documentation and other information that the Administrative Agent or such Lender requests in order to comply with its ongoing obligations under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Patriot Act
           11.24           .
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document), each Borrower acknowledges and agrees, and acknowledges its Affiliates' understanding, that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Administrative Agent and the Arranger are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Loan Parties and their respective Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Arranger, on the other hand, (B) each of the Loan Parties has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) each of the Loan Parties is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents; (ii) (A) the Administrative Agent and the Arranger each is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Loan Parties or any of their respective Affiliates, or any other Person and (B) neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arranger has any obligation to the Loan Parties or any of their respective Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; and (iii) the Administrative Agent and the Arranger and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Loan Parties and their respective Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arranger has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Loan Parties and their respective Affiliates.  To the fullest extent permitted by Law, each of the Loan Parties hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent and the Arranger with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
11.25           
Electronic Execution of Assignments and Certain Other Documents
.
The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption or in any amendment or other modification hereof (including waivers and consents) shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
 
 
 
105
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
(b)           the requirements of the European Central Bank.
(a)           in relation to any Loan in Sterling:
 
(b)           in relation to any Loan in any currency other than Sterling:
Where:
 
 
 
2
 
 
5.           For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
 
3
 
 
Each Lender shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent and DeVry in writing of any change to the information provided by it pursuant to this paragraph.
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
Schedule 5.5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
SCHEDULE 5.13
 
 
Part (a).                      Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 - Dormant Subsidiary
* - Not required to be a Guarantor
^ - Not required to have equity pledged
Part (b).                  Other Equity Investments.
 
None
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
SCHEDULE 5.20
 
 
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
II.  Barbados Filings:
1.           Original notarized Pledge Agreement to be filed with the Registrar of Companies of Barbados.
2.           Statement of Charge (for each of DeVry Inc. and Global Education International, Inc.) to be filed with the Registrar of Companies of Barbados.
 
 
 
15
 
 
SCHEDULE 7.1
 
 
1.           Liens pursuant to the capital lease agreements described on Schedule 7.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 7.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
:
Loan Parties
DeVry Inc.
3005 Highland Parkway
Downers Grove, IL 60515-5799
Attention: Richard Gunst
Tel:         (630) 515-3137
Fax:        (630) 353-3987
Email: rgunst@devry.edu
:
Administrative Agent
:
Your contacts in Agency Servicing
 
 
:
Wire Instructions
 
 
 
:
Your contacts in Agency Management
()
financial reporting requirements, bank group communications
Linda Lov
Agency Officer
Bank of America, N.A.
231 South LaSalle Street
Chicago, Illinois  60604
Mail Code: IL1-231-09-42
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 4.3
EXHIBIT A
 Date:  _________, ____
To:           Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of May 10, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among DeVry Inc., a Delaware corporation (), the Designated Borrowers from time to time party thereto (and together with DeVry, the ), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender.
Credit Agreement
DeVry
Borrowers
The undersigned hereby requests (select one):
   A Borrowing of Revolving Loans                                 A conversion or continuation of Revolving Loans
o
o
1.           On ________________________________ (a Business Day).
2.           In the amount of $ ________________________.
3.           Comprised of ____________________________.
[Type of Revolving Loan requested]
4.           In the following currency: ________________________.
5.           For Eurocurrency Rate Loans:  with an Interest Period of ______ months.
[With respect to such Borrowing, the undersigned hereby represents and warrants that (i) such request complies with clauses (a), (c) and (d) of the proviso to the first sentence of of the Credit Agreement and (ii) each of the conditions set forth in and of the Credit Agreement have been satisfied on and as of the date of such Borrowing.]
Section 2.1
Sections 4.1(a)
(b)
[BORROWER]
 
By:  __________________________
Name: ________________________     
Title: _________________________
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
Date:  ___________, ____
To:          Bank of America, N.A., as Swing Line Lender
Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of May 10, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among DeVry Inc., a Delaware corporation (), the Designated Borrowers from time to time party thereto (and together with DeVry, the ), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender.
Credit Agreement
DeVry
Borrowers
The undersigned hereby requests a Swing Line Loan:
1.           On ____________________________ (a Business Day).
2.           In the amount of $_______________________.
With respect to such Borrowing of Swing Line Loans, the Borrower hereby represents and warrants that (i) such request complies with the requirements of clause (i) of the proviso to the first sentence of of the Credit Agreement and (ii) each of the conditions set forth in and of the Credit Agreement have been satisfied on and as of the date of such Borrowing of Swing Line Loans.
Section 2.4(a)
Sections 4.2(a)
(b)
 
 
DEVRY INC.
 
By:  __________________________
Name: ________________________     
Title: _________________________
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT C-1
____________________
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned (), hereby promises to pay to _____________________ or registered assigns (the ), in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the principal amount of each Loan from time to time made by the Lender to the Borrower under that certain Credit Agreement dated as of May 10, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among DeVry, the Designated Borrowers from time to time party thereto (and together with DeVry, the ), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender.
DeVry
Lender
Credit Agreement
Borrowers
DeVry promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Loan from the date of such Loan until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates and at such times as provided in the Credit Agreement.  Except as otherwise provided in of the Credit Agreement with respect to Swing Line Loans, all payments of principal and interest shall be made to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lender in the currency in which such Loan was denominated and in Same Day Funds at the Administrative Agents Office for such currency.  If any amount is not paid in full when due hereunder, such unpaid amount shall bear interest, to be paid upon demand, from the due date thereof until the date of actual payment (and before as well as after judgment) computed at the per annum rate set forth in the Credit Agreement.
Section 2.4(f)
This Note is one of the Notes referred to in the Credit Agreement, is entitled to the benefits thereof and may be prepaid in whole or in part subject to the terms and conditions provided therein.  This Note is also entitled to the benefits of the Pledge Documents referred to in the Credit Agreement.  Upon the occurrence and continuation of one or more of the Events of Default specified in the Credit Agreement, all amounts then remaining unpaid on this Note shall become, or may be declared to be, immediately due and payable all as provided in the Credit Agreement.  Loans made by the Lender shall be evidenced by one or more loan accounts or records maintained by the Lender in the ordinary course of business. The Lender may also attach schedules to this Note and endorse thereon the date, amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
DeVry, for itself, its successors and assigns, hereby waives diligence, presentment, protest and demand and notice of protest, demand, dishonor and non-payment of this Note.
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
 
DEVRY INC.
 
By:  __________________________
Name: ________________________     
Title: _________________________
 
 
 
 
 
C-1-2
 
 
 
C-1-3
 
 
EXHIBIT C-2
____________________
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned (the ), hereby promises to pay to _____________________ or registered assigns (the ), in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the principal amount of each Loan from time to time made by the Lender to the Borrower under that certain Credit Agreement dated as of May 10, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among DeVry Inc., a Delaware corporation (), the Designated Borrowers from time to time party thereto (and together with DeVry, the ), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender.
Designated Borrower
Lender
Credit Agreement
DeVry
Borrowers
The Designated Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Loan from the date of such Loan until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates and at such times as provided in the Credit Agreement.  All payments of principal and interest shall be made to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lender in the currency in which such Revolving Loan was denominated and in Same Day Funds at the Administrative Agents Office for such currency.  If any amount is not paid in full when due hereunder, such unpaid amount shall bear interest, to be paid upon demand, from the due date thereof until the date of actual payment (and before as well as after judgment) computed at the per annum rate set forth in the Credit Agreement.
This Note is one of the Notes referred to in the Credit Agreement, is entitled to the benefits thereof and may be prepaid in whole or in part subject to the terms and conditions provided therein.  This Note is also entitled to the benefits of the Pledge Documents referred to in the Credit Agreement.  Upon the occurrence and continuation of one or more of the Events of Default specified in the Credit Agreement, all amounts then remaining unpaid on this Note shall become, or may be declared to be, immediately due and payable all as provided in the Credit Agreement.  Loans made by the Lender shall be evidenced by one or more loan accounts or records maintained by the Lender in the ordinary course of business. The Lender may also attach schedules to this Note and endorse thereon the date, amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
The Designated Borrower, for itself, its successors and assigns, hereby waives diligence, presentment, protest and demand and notice of protest, demand, dishonor and non-payment of this Note.
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
[DESIGNATED BORROWER]
 
By:  __________________________
Name: ________________________     
Title: _________________________
 
 
 
 
 
C-2-2
 
 
 
 
 
C-2-3
 
 
EXHIBIT D
Financial Statement Date: ________, ______
To:           Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of May 10, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among DeVry Inc., a Delaware corporation (), the Designated Borrowers from time to time party thereto (and together with DeVry, the ), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender.
Credit Agreement
DeVry
Borrowers
The undersigned Responsible Officer hereby certifies as of the date hereof that he/she is the ______________________________________________ of DeVry, and that, as such, he/she is authorized to execute and deliver this Certificate to the Administrative Agent on the behalf of DeVry, and that:
[Use following paragraph 1 for fiscal year-end financial statements]
1.           Attached hereto as are the year-end audited financial statements required by of the Credit Agreement for the fiscal year of DeVry ended as of the above date, together with the report and opinion of an independent certified public accountant required by such section.
Schedule 1
Section 6.1(a)
[Use following paragraph 1 for fiscal quarter-end financial statements]
1.           Attached hereto as are the unaudited financial statements required by of the Credit Agreement for the fiscal quarter of DeVry ended as of the above date.  Such financial statements fairly present the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of DeVry and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP as at such date and for such period, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
Schedule 1
Section 6.1(b)
2.           The undersigned has reviewed and is familiar with the terms of the Credit Agreement and has made, or has caused to be made under his/her supervision, a detailed review of the transactions and condition (financial or otherwise) of DeVry during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements.
3.           A review of the activities of DeVry during such fiscal period has been made under the supervision of the undersigned with a view to determining whether during such fiscal period DeVry performed and observed all its Obligations under the Loan Documents, and
[to the best knowledge of the undersigned during such fiscal period, DeVry performed and observed each covenant and condition of the Loan Documents applicable to it.]
 
 
 
 
 
 
[the following covenants or conditions have not been performed or observed and the following is a list of each such Default and its nature and status:]
4.           The representations and warranties of the Borrowers contained in of the Credit Agreement, or which are contained in any document furnished at any time under or in connection with the Loan Documents, are true and correct on and as of the date hereof, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this Compliance Certificate, the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of of the Credit Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of of the Credit Agreement, including the statements in connection with which this Compliance Certificate is delivered.
Article V
Section 5.5
Section 6.1
5.           The financial covenant analyses and information set forth on attached hereto are true and accurate on and as of the date of this Certificate.
Schedule 2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Certificate as
of ________________, ______________.
 
 
 
DEVRY INC.
 
By:  __________________________
Name: ________________________     
Title: _________________________
 
 
 
D-2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D-3
 
 
 
 
_________________________________
 
  Provided that the Borrower shall not be required to comply with the DOE Ratio during any waiver or cure period extended by the DOE.
1
 
Provided that, if a Permitted Acquisition that has total consideration that exceeds $50,000,000 causes the DOE Ratio as of the end of the fiscal year in which that Permitted Acquisition occurred to be less than 1.50:1, than DeVry will not permit the DOE Ratio as of the end of that fiscal year to be less than 1.25:1
2
 
The Cohort Default Rate shall not exceed (i) the maximum percentage permitted by the DOE for the applicable three consecutive cohort fiscal years in order for such school to participate in Title IV Programs or (ii) the maximum percentage permitted by the DOE for the applicable cohort fiscal year in order for such school to participate in Title IV Programs.  A "cohort fiscal year" is a twelve month period commencing on October 1 of a year and ending on September 30 of the following year.
3
 
 
D-4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D-5
 
 
EXHIBIT E
This Assignment and Assumption (this Assignment and Assumption) is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [Insert name of Assignor] (the Assignor) and [Insert name of Assignee] (the Assignee).  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (the ), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee.  The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Credit Agreement
For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of the Assignor's rights and obligations as a Lender under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments, including the Pledge Agreement, delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of the Assignor under the respective facilities identified below (including, without limitation, Letters of Credit, Guarantees and Swing Line Loans included in such facilities) and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable Law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender) against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as, the Assigned Interest).  Such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
Affiliate/Approved Fund of [identify Lender]
1
4.           Administrative Agent: Bank of America, N.A., as the administrative agent under the
Credit Agreement
6.           Assigned Interest:
 
 
____________________________ Select as applicable.
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[7.           Trade Date:                      __________________]
4
Effective Date: __________________, 20__ [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
ASSIGNOR
[NAME OF ASSIGNOR]
By:  ____________________________
Title:
ASSIGNEE
[NAME OF ASSIGNEE]
By:  ____________________________ 
Title:
  
 
Set forth, to at least 9 decimals, as a percentage of the Commitment/Loans of all Lenders thereunder.
____________________________ 2
 
Fill in the appropriate terminology for the types of facilities under the Credit Agreement that are being assigned under this Assignment (e.g. Revolving Commitment, etc.).
3
 
To be completed if the Assignor and the Assignee intend that the minimum assignment amount is to be determined as of the Trade Date.
4
 
 
 
E-2
 
 
 
[Consented to and] Accepted:
5
[NAME OF ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT], as
Administrative Agent
By:  ________________________________________
Title:
 
 
 
[Consented to:]
6
Bank of America, N.A., as L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender
By:  ________________________________________                                
Title:
 
 
 
[Consented to:]
DeVry Inc.
By:  ________________________________________ 
Title:
 
 
 
 
To be added only if the consent of the Administrative Agent is required by the terms of the Credit Agreement.
____________________________ 5
 
To be added only if the consent of the Borrower and/or other parties (e.g. Swing Line Lender, L/C Issuer) is required by the terms of the Credit Agreement.
6
 
 
 
E-3
 
 
ANNEX 1 TO ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
1.           .
Representations and Warranties
1.1           .  The Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of DeVry, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrowers, any of their Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor
1.2.           .  The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets the requirements to be an assignee under and of the Credit Agreement (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under of the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it is sophisticated with respect to decisions to acquire assets of the type represented by the Assigned Interest and either it, or the Person exercising discretion in making its decision to acquire the Assigned Interest, is experienced in acquiring assets of such type, (v) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, and has received or has been accorded the opportunity to receive copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it deems appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest, (vi) it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest, and (vii) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached hereto is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by the Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender and (iii) agrees to be bound by the terms of the Pledge Agreement.
Assignee
Section 11.7(b)(iii)
(v)
Section 11.7(b)(iii)
Section 6.1
2.             .  From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to the Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to the Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
Payments
 
 
 
E-4
 
 
3.           .  This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.  This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption.  This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
General Provisions
 
 
 
 
E-5
 
EXHIBIT F-1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
                      Form of Guaranty Joinder
EXHIBIT A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This U.S. dated as of May 10, 2011 (as amended, restated, supplemented, extended or otherwise modified from time to time, this ) is entered into on a joint and several basis by each of the undersigned (which parties are hereinafter referred to individually as a  and collectively as the ).
Subsidiary Guaranty
Guaranty
Guarantor
Guarantors
A.           Reference is made to the Credit Agreement dated as of May 10, 2011 (as amended, restated, supplemented, extended, refinanced or otherwise modified from time to time, the ) among DeVry Inc., a Delaware corporation (), the Designated Borrowers party thereto (the  and, together with DeVry, the ), the lenders party thereto (the ), and Bank of America, N.A. as administrative agent (the ) providing for, among other things, up to $450 million in loans and letters of credit.
Credit Agreement
DeVry
Designated Borrowers
Borrowers
Lenders
Administrative Agent
B.           Each Guarantor is a direct or indirect U.S. Subsidiary of DeVry.
C.           The Credit Extensions under the Credit Agreement have benefited and will continue to benefit the Borrowers and their Subsidiaries by, among other things, providing funds to enable the Borrowers to finance working capital and capital expenditures, support the issuance of standby letters of credit, make Restricted Payments to the extent permitted in of the Credit Agreement, and for other general corporate purposes.
Section 7.6
D.           Each of the undersigned, and each Person that hereafter becomes obligated pursuant to Section 6.12 of the Credit Agreement to execute a Guaranty Joinder in substantially the form set forth as Exhibit A hereto (a ), is willing to enter into this Guaranty as security for the Obligations under the Credit Agreement.
Guaranty Joinder
, as required by the Credit Agreement and in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, each Guarantor does hereby covenant and agree, jointly and severally, as follows:
Now, Therefore
Section 1.                      Definitions
Capitalized terms used herein but not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement or as the context shall otherwise require.
Section 2.                      Guaranty of Obligations and Credit Agreement
(a)           Subject to the limitations set forth in Section 2(b) hereof, each Guarantor jointly and severally does hereby irrevocably, absolutely and unconditionally guarantee unto the Administrative Agent and the Secured Parties: (1) the full and prompt payment of all Obligations including, without limitation, all principal of and interest under, all Loans (whether Base Rate Loans, Eurocurrency Rate Loans or Swing Line Loans), all L/C Obligations, all L/C Borrowings, all obligations under Specified Swap Contracts and all fees, expenses and other amounts, if any, from time to time outstanding, as and when such payments shall become due and payable, whether by lapse of time, upon redemption or prepayment, by extension or by acceleration or declaration or otherwise (including, to the extent legally enforceable, interest due on overdue payments of principal) in federal or other immediately available funds of the United States of America which at the time of payment or demand therefor shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, (2) the full and prompt performance and observance
 
 
 
 
 
by the Borrowers of each and all of the obligations, covenants and agreements required to be performed or owed by the Borrowers under the terms of the Loan Documents and the Specified Swap Contracts (collectively with the Loan Documents, the ), and (3) the full and prompt payment, upon demand by the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties, of all costs and expenses, legal or otherwise (including reasonable attorneys fees), if any, as shall have been expended or incurred in the protection or enforcement of any rights, privileges or liabilities in favor of the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party under or in respect of any Loan Document or in any action in connection therewith or herewith and in each and every case irrespective of the validity, regularity, or enforcement of any of the Loan Documents or any of the terms thereof or any other like circumstance or circumstances (the payment, performance and observance of all such Obligations, covenants and agreements being herein collectively called the ).
Financing Documents
Guaranteed Obligations
(b)           The liability of each Guarantor under this Guaranty shall not exceed an amount equal to a maximum amount as will, after giving effect to such maximum amount and all other liabilities of such Guarantor, contingent or otherwise, be enforceable under applicable Law and result in the performance of the obligations of such Guarantor hereunder and not constitute a fraudulent transfer, obligation or conveyance.
(c)           All amounts payable under this Guaranty by each Guarantor shall be made in Dollars.
Section 3.                      Guaranty of Payment and Performance
This is a guarantee of payment and performance and each Guarantor hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, any right to require that any action on or in respect of any Obligation or any Financing Document be brought against the Borrowers or any other Person or that resort be had to any direct or indirect security for the Guaranteed Obligations or any Financing Document or any other remedy.  The Administrative Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties may, at its option, proceed hereunder against any Guarantor in the first instance to collect monies when due, the payment of which is guaranteed hereby, without first proceeding against the Borrowers or any other Person and without first resorting to any direct or indirect security for the Guaranteed Obligations or any Financing Document or any other remedy.  The liability of each Guarantor hereunder shall in no way be affected or impaired by any acceptance by the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party of any direct or indirect security for, or other guaranties of, any debt, liability or obligation of the Borrowers or any other Person to the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party or by any failure, delay, neglect or omission by the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party to realize upon or protect any such guarantees, debt, liability or obligation or any instruments evidencing the same or any direct or indirect security therefor or by any approval, consent, waiver, or other action taken, or omitted to be taken by the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party.
The covenants and agreements on the part of the Guarantors herein contained shall be joint and several covenants and agreements, and references to the Guarantors shall be deemed references to each of them and none of them shall be released from liability hereunder by reason of this Guaranty ceasing to be binding as a continuing security on any other of them.
Section 4.                      General Provisions Relating to the Guaranty
(a)           Each Guarantor hereby consents and agrees that the Administrative Agent and/or any Secured Party from time to time, with or without any further notice to or assent from any other Guarantor may, without in any manner affecting the liability of any Guarantor under this Guaranty, and upon such terms and conditions as the Administrative Agent or such Secured Party may deem advisable:
 
 
F-1-2
 
 
(1)           extend in whole or in part (by renewal or otherwise), modify, increase, change, compromise, release or extend the duration of the time for the performance or payment of any debt, liability or obligation of the Borrowers or of any other Person secondarily or otherwise liable for any debt, liability or obligations of the Borrowers on the Guaranteed Obligations or under any Financing Document, or waive any Default or Event of Default with respect thereto, or waive, modify, amend or change any provision of any Financing Document;
(2)           sell, release, surrender, modify, impair, exchange or substitute any and all property, of any nature and from whomsoever received, held by, or for the benefit of, the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party as direct or indirect security for the payment or performance of any debt, liability or obligation of the Borrowers or of any other Person secondarily or otherwise liable for any debt, liability or obligation of the Borrowers under any Financing Document; and/or
(3)           settle, adjust or compromise any claim of the Borrowers against any other Person secondarily or otherwise liable for any debt, liability or obligation of the Borrowers under any Financing Document.
Each Guarantor hereby ratifies and confirms any such extension, renewal, change, sale, release, waiver, surrender, exchange, modification, amendment, impairment, substitution, settlement, adjustment or compromise and agrees that the same shall be binding upon it, and hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, any and all defenses, counterclaims or offsets which it might or could have by reason thereof, it being understood that such Guarantor shall at all times be bound by this Guaranty and remain liable hereunder.
(b)           Each Guarantor hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by Law:
(1)              notice of acceptance of this Guaranty by the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties or of the creation, renewal or accrual of any liability of the Borrowers, present or future, or of the reliance of the Administrative Agent or any of the Secured Parties upon this Guaranty (it being understood that all Guaranteed Obligations described in Section 2 hereof shall conclusively be presumed to have been created, contracted or incurred in reliance upon the execution of this Guaranty); and
(2)              demand of payment by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties from the Borrowers or any other Person indebted in any manner on or for any of the Guaranteed Obligations; and
(3)              presentment for the payment by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties or any other Person of any Financing Document or any other instrument, protest thereof and notice of its dishonor to any party thereto and to such Guarantor.
The obligations of each Guarantor under this Guaranty and the rights of the Administrative Agent to enforce such obligations by any proceedings, whether by action at law, suit in equity or otherwise, shall not be subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment or termination, whether by reason of any claim of any character whatsoever or otherwise and shall not be subject to any defense, set-off, counterclaim (other than any compulsory counterclaim), recoupment or termination whatsoever.
(c)           The obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall be binding upon such Guarantor and its successors and assigns, and shall remain in full force and effect until the date on which all Commitments of the Lenders shall have terminated, all Letters of Credit shall have expired or terminated and all Obligations have indefeasibly been paid in full (the ) and such obligations shall not be affected, modified or impaired upon the happening from time to time of any event, including, without limitation, any of the following, whether or not with notice to or the consent of any Guarantor:
Termination Date
 
 
F-1-3
 
 
(1)              the genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of any of the Financing Documents or any of the terms of any thereof, the continuance of any obligation on the part of the Borrowers or any other Guarantor on or in respect of or under any Financing Document or the power or authority or the lack of power or authority of the Borrowers to execute and deliver any Financing Document or of any other Guarantor to execute and deliver this Guaranty or to perform any of its obligations hereunder or the existence or continuance of the Borrowers or any other Guarantor as a legal entity; or
(2)              any default, failure or delay, willful or otherwise, in the performance by the Borrowers or any other Guarantor of any obligations of any kind or character whatsoever under any Financing Document; or
(3)              any creditors rights, bankruptcy, receivership or other insolvency proceeding of the Borrowers or any other Guarantor or in respect of the property of the Borrowers or any other Guarantor or any merger, consolidation, reorganization, dissolution, liquidation, the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of or winding up of the Borrowers or any other Guarantor; or
(4)              impossibility or illegality of performance on the part of the Borrowers or any other Guarantor of its obligations under any Financing Document; or
(5)              in respect of the Borrowers or any other Guarantor, any change of circumstances, whether or not foreseen or foreseeable, whether or not imputable to the Borrowers or any other Guarantor, or other impossibility of performance through fire, explosion, accident, labor disturbance, floods, droughts, embargoes, wars (whether or not declared), civil commotion, acts of God or the public enemy, delays or failure of suppliers or carriers, inability to obtain materials, action of any federal or state regulatory body or agency, change of Law or any other causes affecting performance, or any other force majeure, whether or not beyond the control of the Borrowers or any other Guarantor and whether or not of the kind hereinbefore specified; or
(6)              any attachment, claim, demand, charge, Lien, order, process, lien or any other happening or event or reason, similar or dissimilar to the foregoing, or any withholding or diminution at the source, by reason of any taxes, assessments, expenses, debt, obligations or liabilities of any character, foreseen or unforeseen, and whether or not valid, incurred by or against the Borrowers or any Guarantor or any claims, demands, charges or Liens of any nature, foreseen or unforeseen, incurred by any Guarantor, or against any sums payable in respect of or under any Financing Document, so that such sums would be rendered inadequate or would be unavailable to make the payments herein provided; or
(7)              any order, judgment, decree, ruling or regulation (whether or not valid) of any court of any nation or of any political subdivision thereof or any body, agency, department, official or administrative or regulatory agency of any thereof or any other action, happening, event or reason whatsoever which shall delay, interfere with, hinder or prevent, or in any way adversely affect, the performance by the Borrowers or any other Guarantor of its respective obligations under or in respect of any Financing Document; or
(8)              the failure of any other Guarantor to receive any benefit from or as a result of its execution, delivery and performance of this Guaranty; or
 
 
F-1-4
 
 
(9)              any failure or lack of diligence in collection or protection, failure in presentment or demand for payment, protest, notice of protest, notice of default and of nonpayment, any failure to give notice to any other Guarantor of failure of the Borrowers or any other Guarantor to keep and perform any obligation, covenant or agreement under the terms of any Financing Document, or this Guaranty or failure to resort for payment to the Borrowers or any other Guarantor or to any other guaranty or to any property, security, Liens or other rights or remedies; or
(10)              the acceptance of any additional security or other guaranty, the advance of additional money to the Borrowers or any other Guarantor, amendments, modifications, consents or waivers with respect to any Financing Document, or the sale, release, substitution or exchange of any security for any Guaranteed Obligation; or
(11)              any change in the ownership of any shares of the Borrowers or any Guarantor; or
(12)              any defense whatsoever that:  (i) the Borrowers or any other Guarantor might have to the payment under any Financing Document, other than payment thereof in Federal or other immediately available funds, or (ii) the Borrowers or any other Guarantor might have to the performance or observance of any of the provisions of any Financing Document, whether through the satisfaction or purported satisfaction by the Borrowers or any other Guarantor of its debts due to any cause such as bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership, merger, consolidation, reorganization, dissolution, liquidation, winding-up or otherwise; or
(13)              any act or failure to act with regard to any Financing Document or anything which might vary the risk of any Guarantor; or
(14)              any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, any Guarantor in respect of the obligations of any Guarantor under this Guaranty;
that the specific enumeration of the above-mentioned acts, failures or omissions shall not be deemed to exclude any other acts, failures or omissions, though not specifically mentioned above, it being the purpose and intent of this Guaranty that the obligations of each Guarantor shall be absolute, irrevocable and unconditional and shall not be discharged, impaired or varied except by the payment of all Obligations in accordance with their respective terms whenever the same shall become due and payable and all other sums due and payable under any Financing Document, at the place specified in and all in the manner and with the effect provided in the Credit Agreement.  Without limiting the foregoing, it is understood that repeated and successive demands may be made and recoveries may be had hereunder as and when, from time to time, the Borrowers shall default under or in respect of the terms of any Financing Document and that notwithstanding recovery hereunder for or in respect of any given default or defaults by the Borrowers under any Financing Document shall remain in full force and effect and shall apply to each and every subsequent default.
provided
(d)           All rights of the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party hereunder may be transferred or assigned at any time and shall be considered to be transferred or assigned at any time or from time to time upon the appointment of a successor to the Administrative Agent or any permitted transfer by a Lender of its rights under the Credit Agreement, whether with or without the consent of or notice to the Guarantors under this Guaranty or to the Borrowers.
 
 
F-1-5
 
 
(e)           To the extent of any payments made under this Guaranty, each Guarantor shall be subrogated to the rights of the Administrative Agent and/or the Secured Parties to whom such payment was made, but such Guarantor covenants and agrees that such right of subrogation shall be subordinate in right of payment to the prior indefeasible final payment in cash in full of all amounts due and owing by the Borrowers with respect to the Obligations under the Financing Documents and by the Guarantors under this Guaranty, and the Guarantors shall not take any action to enforce such right of subrogation, and the Guarantors shall not accept any payment in respect of such right of subrogation, until the Termination Date.  If any amount shall be paid to any Guarantor in violation of the preceding sentence at any time prior to the indefeasible payment in cash in full of all amounts payable under the Financing Documents and this Guaranty, such amount shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Secured Parties and shall forthwith be paid to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Secured Parties to be credited and applied to the amounts due or to become due with respect to all amounts payable under the Financing Documents and this Guaranty, whether matured or unmatured.  Each Guarantor acknowledges that it has received direct and indirect benefits from the financing arrangements contemplated by the Financing Documents and that the waiver set forth in this paragraph (e) is knowingly made as a result of the receipt of such benefits.
(f)           Each Guarantor agrees that, to the extent either Borrower, any other Guarantor or any other Person makes any payment under any of the Financing Documents, which payment or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, voided, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside, recovered, rescinded or is required to be retained by or repaid to a trustee, receiver, or any other Person under any bankruptcy code, common law, or equitable cause, then and to the extent of such payment, the obligation or the part thereof intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect with respect to the Guarantors obligations hereunder, as if said payment had not been made.  The liability of the Guarantors hereunder shall not be reduced or discharged, in whole or in part, by any payment to the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party from any source that is thereafter paid, returned or refunded in whole or in part by reason of the assertion of a claim of any kind relating thereto, including, but not limited to, any claim for breach of contract, breach of warranty, preference, illegality, invalidity, or fraud asserted by any account debtor or by any other Person.
(g)           Neither the Administrative Agent nor any Secured Party, shall be under any obligation:  (1) to marshal any assets in favor of the Guarantors or in payment of any or all of the liabilities of the Borrowers under or in respect of the Financing Documents or the obligations of the Guarantors hereunder or (2) to pursue any other remedy that the Guarantors may or may not be able to pursue themselves and that may lighten the Guarantors burden, any right to which each Guarantor hereby expressly waives.
(h)           The obligations of each Guarantor under this Guaranty rank in right of payment with all other Indebtedness of such Guarantor which is not secured or which is not expressly subordinated in right of payment to any other Indebtedness of such Guarantor.
pari passu
Section 5.                      Representations and Warranties of the Guarantors
Each Guarantor represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and each Secured Party that:
(a)           Such Guarantor is a corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership or other legal entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership or other similar legal entity and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required by Law, other than those jurisdictions as to which the failure to be so qualified or in good standing could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on (1) the ability of such Guarantor to perform its obligations under this Guaranty, or (2) the
 
 
F-1-6
 
 
validity or enforceability of this Guaranty against such Guarantor (herein in this , a ).  Such Guarantor has the power and authority to own or hold under lease the properties it purports to own or hold under lease, to transact the business it transacts and proposes to transact, to execute and deliver this Guaranty and to perform the provisions hereof.
Section 5
Material Adverse Effect
(b)           This Guaranty has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action on the part of such Guarantor, and this Guaranty constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Guarantor enforceable against such Guarantor in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by (1) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or conveyance or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally and (2) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at Law).
(c)           The execution, delivery and performance by such Guarantor of this Guaranty will not (1) contravene, result in any breach of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation of any Lien in respect of any property of such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries under its charter documents, or except for contraventions, breaches or defaults which could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, under any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan, purchase or credit agreement, lease, or any other agreement or instrument to which such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries is bound or by which such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties may be bound or affected, (2) conflict with or result in a breach of any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any order, judgment, decree, or ruling of any court, arbitrator or Governmental Authority applicable to such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries or (3) violate any provision of any statute or other rule or regulation of any Governmental Authority applicable to the such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries.
(d)           No consent, approval or authorization of, or registration, filing or declaration with, any Governmental Authority is required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by such Guarantor of this Guaranty.
(e)           Except in the case of DeVry Canada, LLC, such Guarantor is solvent, has capital not unreasonably small in relation to its business or any contemplated or undertaken transaction and has assets having a value both at fair valuation and at present fair salable value greater than the amount required to pay its debts as they become due and greater than the amount that will be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts as they become absolute and matured.  Such Guarantor does not intend to incur, or believe that it will incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they become due.  Such Guarantor will not be rendered insolvent by the execution and delivery of, and performance of its obligations under, this Guaranty.  Such Guarantor does not intend to hinder, delay or defraud its creditors by or through the execution and delivery of, or performance of its obligations under, this Guaranty.
(f)           All representations in the Credit Agreement applicable to such Guarantors (or any of them) are true and correct in all material respects.
Section 6.                      Amendments, Waivers and Consents
This Guaranty may be amended, and the observance of any term hereof may be waived (either retroactively or prospectively), pursuant to the provisions of of the Credit Agreement.  This Guaranty may be amended by the addition of additional Guarantors pursuant to a Guaranty Joinder.
Section 11.1
 
 
F-1-7
 
 
Section 7.                      Submission to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial
                   .  (a) Each Guarantor irrevocably submits to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any State of New York or federal court sitting in New York City, over any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Guaranty.  To the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable Law, each Guarantor irrevocably waives and agrees not to assert, by way of motion, as a defense or otherwise, any claim that it is not subject to the jurisdiction of any such court, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court and any claim that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
Section 7.1.
Consent to Jurisdiction; Service of Process; Waiver of Jury Trial
in personam
in personam
(b)           Each Guarantor agrees, to the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable Law, that a final judgment in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in paragraph (a) of this brought in any such court shall be conclusive and binding upon such party, subject to rights of appeal and may be enforced in the courts of the United States of America or the State of New York (or any other courts to the jurisdiction of which such party is or may be subject) by a suit upon such judgment.
Section 7.1
(c)           Each Guarantor consents to process being served in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in paragraph (a) of this by mailing a copy thereof by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the address of such Guarantor specified in or at such other address of which you shall then have been notified pursuant to said Section or to any agent for service of process appointed pursuant to the provisions of .  Each Guarantor agrees that such service upon receipt (i) shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process upon it in any such suit, action or proceeding and (ii) shall, to the full extent permitted by Law, be taken and held to be valid personal service upon and personal delivery to such party.  Notices hereunder shall be conclusively presumed received as evidenced by a delivery receipt furnished by the United States Postal Service or any reputable commercial delivery service.
Section 7.1
Section 8
Section 7.2
(d)           Nothing in this shall affect the right of the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties to serve process in any manner permitted by Law, or limit any right that the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties may have to bring proceedings against any Guarantor in the courts of any appropriate jurisdiction or to enforce in any lawful manner a judgment obtained in one jurisdiction in any other jurisdiction.
Section 7.1
(e)           Each Guarantor waives trial by jury in any action brought on or with respect to this Guaranty or the Financing Documents or any other document executed in connection herewith or therewith.
                   .  Each Guarantor hereby irrevocably designates, appoints and empowers DeVry and its successors as the designee, appointee and agent for each Guarantor to receive, accept and acknowledge, for and on behalf of such Guarantor and its properties, service of any and all legal process, summons, notices and documents which may be served in such action, suit or proceeding relating to this Guaranty in the case of the New York federal and state courts located in New York City, which service may be made on any such designee, appointee and agent in accordance with legal procedures prescribed for such courts.  Each Guarantor agrees to take any and all action necessary to continue such designation in full force and effect and should such designee, appointee and agent become unavailable for this purpose for any reason, each Guarantor will forthwith irrevocably designate a new designee, appointee and agent, which shall irrevocably agree to act as such, with the powers and for purposes specified in this .  Each Guarantor further irrevocably consents and
Section 7.2.
Service of Process Upon Guarantors
Section 7.2
 
 
F-1-8
 
 
agrees to service of any and all legal process, summons, notices and documents out of any of the aforesaid courts in any such action, suit or proceeding relating to any Financing Document or this Guaranty delivered to such Guarantor in accordance with this or to its then designee, appointee or agent for service.  If service is made upon such designee, appointee and agent, a copy of such process, summons, notice or document shall also be provided to any Guarantor at the address specified in by registered or certified mail, or overnight express air courier; that failure of such Secured Party to provide such copy to such Guarantor shall not impair or affect in any way the validity of such service or any judgment rendered in such action or proceedings.  Each Guarantor agrees that service upon such Guarantor or any such designee, appointee and agent as provided for herein shall constitute valid and effective personal service upon such Guarantor with respect to matters contemplated in this and that the failure of any such designee, appointee and agent to give any notice of such service to such Guarantor shall not impair or affect in any way the validity of such service or any judgment rendered in any action or proceeding based thereon.  Nothing herein shall, or shall be construed so as to, limit the right of the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties to bring actions, suits or proceedings with respect to the obligations and liabilities of any Guarantor under, or any other matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment rendered in any such action, suit or proceeding, in the courts of whatever jurisdiction in which the respective offices of the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties may be located or assets of such Guarantor may be found or as otherwise shall to Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties seem appropriate, or to affect the right to service of process in any jurisdiction in any other manner permitted by Law.
Section 7.2
Section 8
provided
Section 7.2
Section 8.                      Notices
All notices and communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing and sent (a) by facsimile if the sender on the same day sends a confirming copy of such notice by a recognized overnight delivery service (charges prepaid), or (b) by a recognized overnight delivery service (with charges prepaid).  Any such notice must be sent:
(1)           if to the Administrative Agent, to such address as listed in of the Credit Agreement, or
Schedule 11.2
(2)           if to any Guarantor, to such Guarantor c/o the Borrowers at One Tower Lane, Oakbrook Terrace, IL 60181, or at such other address as such Guarantor shall have specified to the Administrative Agent in writing.
Notices under this will be deemed given only when actually received.
Section 8
Section 9.                      Miscellaneous
(a)           No remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party is intended to be exclusive of any other available remedy or remedies, but each and every such remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy given under this Guaranty now or hereafter existing at Law or in equity.  No delay or omission to exercise any right or power accruing upon any default, omission or failure of performance hereunder shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver thereof but any such right or power may be exercised from time to time and as often as may be deemed expedient.  In order to entitle the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party to exercise any remedy reserved to it under the Guaranty, it shall not be necessary for such Administrative Agent or Secured Party to physically produce the Financing Documents in any proceedings instituted by it or to give any notice, other than such notice as may be herein expressly required.
 
 
F-1-9
 
 
(b)           The Guarantors will pay all sums becoming due under this Guaranty by the method and at the address specified for such purpose in the Credit Agreement, or by such other reasonable method or at such other address as the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties shall have from time to time specified to the Guarantors in writing for such purpose, without the presentation or surrender of this Guaranty or any Financing Documents.
(c)           Any provision of this Guaranty that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall (to the full extent permitted by Law) not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
(d)           If the whole or any part of this Guaranty shall be now or hereafter become unenforceable against any one or more of the Guarantors for any reason whatsoever or if it is not executed by any one or more of the Guarantors, this Guaranty shall nevertheless be and remain fully binding upon and enforceable against each other Guarantor as if it had been made and delivered only by such other Guarantors.
(e)           This Guaranty shall be binding upon each Guarantor and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the Administrative Agent and each Secured Party and its successors and assigns whether so expressed or not, until the Termination Date.
(f)           This Guaranty may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original but all of which together shall constitute one instrument.  Each counterpart may consist of a number of copies hereof, each signed by less than all, but together signed by all, of the parties hereto.  Delivery of executed counterparts of this Agreement by facsimile or other electronic means shall be effective as an original.
(g)           This Guaranty shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and the rights of the parties shall be governed by the Law of the State of New York.
(h)           The Recitals are incorporated into this Guaranty by reference with the same force and effect as though set forth herein in full.
(i)           The Administrative Agent is authorized to enforce this Guaranty on behalf of the Secured Parties.
 
 
 
F-1-10
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has caused this U.S. Subsidiary Guaranty to be duly executed by an authorized representative as of this ____ day of May, 2011.
[INSERT GUARANTORS]
By  _____________________________ 
Its _______________________
 
 
 
 
 
F-1-11
 
 
 
This dated as of _________, _____ (the or this ) is entered into [on a joint and several basis] by [each of] the undersigned __________, a ____________ corporation ( an  ).  Terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Credit Agreement hereinafter referred to.
Guaranty Joinder
Guaranty Joinder
[and
____________
, a
___________
corporation]
[which parties are hereinafter referred to individually as]
Additional Guarantor
[and collectively as the 
Additional Guarantors
]
A.            Additional Guarantor, is presently a U.S. Subsidiary of DeVry Inc., a Delaware corporation, a Delaware corporation ().
[Each]
DeVry
B.           Reference is made to the Credit Agreement dated as of May 10, 2011 (as amended, restated, supplemented, extended, refinanced or otherwise modified from time to time, the ) among DeVry Inc., a Delaware corporation (), the Designated Borrowers party thereto (the  and, together with DeVry, the ), the lenders party thereto (the ), and Bank of America, N.A. as administrative agent (the ) providing for, among other things, up to $450 million in loans.
Credit Agreement
DeVry
Designated Borrowers
Borrowers
Lenders
Administrative Agent
            Additional Guarantor is required by Section 6.12 of the Credit Agreement to enter into the U.S. Subsidiary Guaranty dated as of May 10, 2011 (as amended, restated, supplemented, extended or otherwise modified , the ) as security for the Obligations.
C
.
[Each]
Guaranty
NOW, THEREFORE, as required by the Credit Agreement and in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency whereof are hereby acknowledged, Additional Guarantor does hereby covenant and agree, as follows:
[each/the]
[jointly and severally,]
In accordance with the requirements of the Guaranty, the Additional Guarantor[s] desire to amend the definition of Guarantor (as the same may have been heretofore amended) set forth in the Guaranty attached hereto so that at all times from and after the date hereof, the Additional Guarantor shall be jointly and severally liable as Guarantors as set forth in the Guaranty for the Guaranteed Obligations of the Borrowers under the Credit Agreement to the extent and in the manner set forth in the Guaranty.
[s]
The undersigned is the duly elected ____________ of the Additional Guarantor and is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Guaranty Joinder for the benefit of all Secured Parties.  The execution by the undersigned of this Guaranty Joinder shall evidence its consent to and acknowledgment and approval of the terms set forth herein and in the Guaranty.  By its execution hereof, the Additional Guarantor shall be deemed to have made the representations and warranties set forth in Section 5 of the Guaranty in favor of the Secured Parties as of the date of this Guaranty Joinder.
[s]
[s]
Upon execution of this Guaranty Joinder, the Guaranty shall be deemed to be amended as set forth above.  The Additional Guarantor[s] hereby become[s] a Guarantor under the Guaranty and as a Guarantor thereunder, hereby Guarantees all Guaranteed Obligations.  Except as amended herein, the terms and provisions of the Guaranty are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved in all respects.
Any and all notices, requests, certificates and other instruments may refer to the Guaranty without making specific reference to this Guaranty Joinder, but nevertheless all such references shall be deemed to include this Guaranty Joinder unless the context shall otherwise require.
 
 
 
F-1-12
 
 
[NAME OF ADDITIONAL GUARANTOR]
By: ________________________________
Its: _________________________
 
 
 
 
 
F-1-13
 
EXHIBIT F-2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A                      Form of Guaranty Joinder
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This dated as of [______], 20[__] (as amended, restated, supplemented, extended or otherwise modified from time to time, this ) is entered into on a joint and several basis by each of the undersigned (which parties are hereinafter referred to individually as a  and collectively as the ).
Offshore Subsidiary Guaranty
Guaranty
Guarantor
Guarantors
A.           Reference is made to the Credit Agreement dated as of May 10, 2011 (as amended, restated, supplemented, extended, refinanced or otherwise modified from time to time, the ) among DeVry Inc., a Delaware corporation (), the Designated Borrowers party thereto (the  and, together with DeVry, the ), the lenders party thereto (the ), and Bank of America, N.A. as administrative agent (the ) providing for, among other things, up to $450 million in loans and letters of credit.
Credit Agreement
DeVry
Designated Borrowers
Borrowers
Lenders
Administrative Agent
A.           Each Guarantor is either (i) a direct or indirect Offshore Subsidiary of, or (ii) a direct or indirect parent of [insert Designated Borrower], a [_______________] (the ).
Guaranteed Borrower
B.           The Credit Extensions under the Credit Agreement have benefited and will continue to benefit the Borrowers and their Subsidiaries by, among other things, providing funds to enable the Borrowers to finance working capital and capital expenditures, support the issuance of standby letters of credit, make Restricted Payments to the extent permitted in of the Credit Agreement, and for other general corporate purposes.
Section 7.6
C.           Each of the undersigned, and each Person which hereafter becomes obligated pursuant to Section 6.12 of the Credit Agreement to execute a Guaranty Joinder in substantially the form set forth as Exhibit A hereto (a ), is willing to enter into this Guaranty as security for the Obligations of the Guaranteed Borrower under the Credit Agreement.
Guaranty Joinder
NOW, THEREFORE, as required by the Credit Agreement and in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, each Guarantor does hereby covenant and agree, jointly and severally, as follows:
Section 1.                      Definitions
Capitalized terms used herein but not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement or as the context shall otherwise require.
Section 2.                      Guaranty of Obligations and Credit Agreement
(a)           Subject to the limitations set forth in hereof, each Guarantor jointly and severally does hereby irrevocably, absolutely and unconditionally guarantee unto the Administrative Agent and the Secured Parties:  (1) the full and prompt payment of all Obligations of the Guaranteed Borrower including, without limitation, all principal of and interest under, all Loans (whether Base Rate Loans or Eurocurrency Rate Loans) made to the Guaranteed Borrower, all L/C Obligations of the Guaranteed Borrower, all L/C Borrowings of the Guaranteed Borrower, all obligations under Specified Swap Contracts of the Guaranteed Borrower or its Subsidiaries and all fees, expenses and other amounts for which the Guaranteed Borrower is liable, if any, from time to time outstanding, as and when such payments shall become due and payable, whether by lapse of time, upon redemption or prepayment, by
Section 2(b)
 
 
 
 
 
extension or by acceleration or declaration or otherwise (including, to the extent legally enforceable, interest due on overdue payments of principal) in federal or other immediately available funds of the United States of America which at the time of payment or demand therefor shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, (2) the full and prompt performance and observance by the Guaranteed Borrower of each and all of the obligations, covenants and agreements required to be performed or owed by the Guaranteed Borrower under the terms of the Loan Documents or the Specified Swap Contracts of the Guaranteed Borrower and its Subsidiaries (collectively with the Loan Documents, the ), and (3) the full and prompt payment, upon demand by the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties, of all costs and expenses, legal or otherwise (including reasonable attorneys fees), if any, as shall have been expended or incurred in the protection or enforcement of any rights, privileges or liabilities in favor of the Administrative Agent or any Lender under or in respect of the Guaranteed Borrower's Obligations under any Loan Document to which the Guaranteed Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or in any action in connection therewith or herewith and in each and every case irrespective of the validity, regularity, or enforcement of any of the Loan Documents or any of the terms thereof or any other like circumstance or circumstances (the payment, performance and observance of all such Obligations, covenants and agreements being herein collectively called the ).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein or in the other Financing Document, no Guarantor hereunder shall be liable hereunder for any Obligations of DeVry or any Obligations of any Designated Borrower other than the Guaranteed Borrower.
Financing Documents
Guaranteed Obligations
(b)           The liability of each Guarantor under this Guaranty shall not exceed an amount equal to a maximum amount as will, after giving effect to such maximum amount and all other liabilities of such Guarantor, contingent or otherwise, be enforceable under applicable Law and result in the performance of the obligations of such Guarantor hereunder and not constitute a fraudulent transfer, obligation or conveyance.
(c)           All amounts payable under this Guaranty by each Guarantor shall be made in Dollars.
Section 3.                      Guaranty of Payment and Performance
This is a guarantee of payment and performance and each Guarantor hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, any right to require that any action on or in respect of any Obligation or any Financing Document be brought against the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Person or that resort be had to any direct or indirect security for the Guaranteed Obligations or any Financing Document or any other remedy.  The Administrative Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties may, at its option, proceed hereunder against any Guarantor in the first instance to collect monies when due, the payment of which is guaranteed hereby, without first proceeding against the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Person and without first resorting to any direct or indirect security for the Guaranteed Obligations or any Financing Document or any other remedy.  The liability of each Guarantor hereunder shall in no way be affected or impaired by any acceptance by the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party of any direct or indirect security for, or other guaranties of, any debt, liability or obligation of the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Person to the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party or by any failure, delay, neglect or omission by the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party to realize upon or protect any such guarantees, debt, liability or obligation or any instruments evidencing the same or any direct or indirect security therefor or by any approval, consent, waiver, or other action taken, or omitted to be taken by the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party.
The covenants and agreements on the part of the Guarantors herein contained shall be joint and several covenants and agreements, and references to the Guarantors shall be deemed references to each of them and none of them shall be released from liability hereunder by reason of this Guaranty ceasing to be binding as a continuing security on any other of them.
 
 
2
 
 
Section 4.                      General Provisions Relating to the Guaranty
(a)           Each Guarantor hereby consents and agrees that the Administrative Agent and/or any Secured Party from time to time, with or without any further notice to or assent from any other Guarantor may, without in any manner affecting the liability of any Guarantor under this Guaranty, and upon such terms and conditions as the Administrative Agent or such Secured Party may deem advisable:
(1)           extend in whole or in part (by renewal or otherwise), modify, increase, change, compromise, release or extend the duration of the time for the performance or payment of any debt, liability or obligation of the Guaranteed Borrower or of any other Person secondarily or otherwise liable for any debt, liability or obligations of the Guaranteed Borrower on the Guaranteed Obligations or under any Financing Document, or waive any Default or Event of Default with respect thereto, or waive, modify, amend or change any provision of any Financing Document;
(2)           sell, release, surrender, modify, impair, exchange or substitute any and all property, of any nature and from whomsoever received, held by, or for the benefit of, the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party as direct or indirect security for the payment or performance of any debt, liability or obligation of the Guaranteed Borrower or of any other Person secondarily or otherwise liable for any debt, liability or obligation of the Guaranteed Borrower under any Financing Document; and/or
(3)           settle, adjust or compromise any claim of the Guaranteed Borrower against any other Person secondarily or otherwise liable for any debt, liability or obligation of the Guaranteed Borrower under any Financing Document.
Each Guarantor hereby ratifies and confirms any such extension, renewal, change, sale, release, waiver, surrender, exchange, modification, amendment, impairment, substitution, settlement, adjustment or compromise and agrees that the same shall be binding upon it, and hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, any and all defenses, counterclaims or offsets which it might or could have by reason thereof, it being understood that such Guarantor shall at all times be bound by this Guaranty and remain liable hereunder.
(b)           Each Guarantor hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by Law:
(1)           notice of acceptance of this Guaranty by the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties or of the creation, renewal or accrual of any liability of the Guaranteed Borrower, present or future, or of the reliance of the Administrative Agent or any of the Secured Parties upon this Guaranty (it being understood that all Guaranteed Obligations described in Section 2 hereof shall conclusively be presumed to have been created, contracted or incurred in reliance upon the execution of this Guaranty); and
(2)           demand of payment by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties from the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Person indebted in any manner on or for any of the Guaranteed Obligations; and
(3)           presentment for the payment by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties or any other Person of any Financing Document or any other instrument, protest thereof and notice of its dishonor to any party thereto and to such Guarantor.
 
 
3
 
 
The obligations of each Guarantor under this Guaranty and the rights of the Administrative Agent to enforce such obligations by any proceedings, whether by action at Law, suit in equity or otherwise, shall not be subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment or termination, whether by reason of any claim of any character whatsoever or otherwise and shall not be subject to any defense, set-off, counterclaim (other than any compulsory counterclaim), recoupment or termination whatsoever.
(c)           The obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall be binding upon such Guarantor and its successors and assigns, and shall remain in full force and effect until the date on which all Commitments of the Lenders to the Guaranteed Borrower shall have terminated, all Letters of Credit issued on behalf of the Guaranteed Borrower shall have expired or terminated and all Obligations of the Guaranteed Borrower have indefeasibly been paid in full (the ) and such obligations shall not be affected, modified or impaired upon the happening from time to time of any event, including, without limitation, any of the following, whether or not with notice to or the consent of any Guarantor:
Termination Date
(1)           the genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of any of the Financing Documents or any of the terms of any thereof, the continuance of any obligation on the part of the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor on or in respect of or under any Financing Document or the power or authority or the lack of power or authority of the Guaranteed Borrower to execute and deliver any Financing Document or of any other Guarantor to execute and deliver this Guaranty or to perform any of its obligations hereunder or the existence or continuance of the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor as a legal entity; or
(2)           any default, failure or delay, willful or otherwise, in the performance by the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor of any obligations of any kind or character whatsoever under any Financing Document; or
(3)           any creditors rights, bankruptcy, receivership or other insolvency proceeding of the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor or in respect of the property of the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor or any merger, consolidation, reorganization, dissolution, liquidation, the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of or winding up of the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor; or
(4)           impossibility or illegality of performance on the part of the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor of its obligations under any Financing Document; or
(5)           in respect of the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor, any change of circumstances, whether or not foreseen or foreseeable, whether or not imputable to the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor, or other impossibility of performance through fire, explosion, accident, labor disturbance, floods, droughts, embargoes, wars (whether or not declared), civil commotion, acts of God or the public enemy, delays or failure of suppliers or carriers, inability to obtain materials, action of any federal or state regulatory body or agency, change of law or any other causes affecting performance, or any other force majeure, whether or not beyond the control of the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor and whether or not of the kind hereinbefore specified; or
(6)           any attachment, claim, demand, charge, Lien, order, process, lien or any other happening or event or reason, similar or dissimilar to the foregoing, or any withholding or diminution at the source, by reason of any taxes, assessments, expenses, debt, obligations or liabilities of any character, foreseen or unforeseen, and whether or not valid, incurred by or against the Guaranteed Borrower or any Guarantor or any claims, demands, charges or Liens of any nature, foreseen or unforeseen, incurred by any Guarantor, or against any sums payable in respect of or under any Financing Document, so that such sums would be rendered inadequate or would be unavailable to make the payments herein provided; or
 
 
4
 
 
(7)           any order, judgment, decree, ruling or regulation (whether or not valid) of any court of any nation or of any political subdivision thereof or any body, agency, department, official or administrative or regulatory agency of any thereof or any other action, happening, event or reason whatsoever which shall delay, interfere with, hinder or prevent, or in any way adversely affect, the performance by the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor of its respective obligations under or in respect of any Financing Document; or
(8)           the failure of any other Guarantor to receive any benefit from or as a result of its execution, delivery and performance of this Guaranty; or
(9)           any failure or lack of diligence in collection or protection, failure in presentment or demand for payment, protest, notice of protest, notice of default and of nonpayment, any failure to give notice to any other Guarantor of failure of the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor to keep and perform any obligation, covenant or agreement under the terms of any Financing Document or this Guaranty or failure to resort for payment to the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor or to any other guaranty or to any property, security, Liens or other rights or remedies; or
(10)           the acceptance of any additional security or other guaranty, the advance of additional money to the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor, amendments, modifications, consents or waivers with respect to any Financing Document, or the sale, release, substitution or exchange of any security for any Guaranteed Obligation of the Guaranteed Borrower; or
(11)           any change in the ownership of any shares of the Guaranteed Borrower or any Guarantor; or
(12)           any defense whatsoever that:  (i) the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor might have to the payment under any Financing Document, other than payment thereof in federal or other immediately available funds, or (ii) the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor might have to the performance or observance of any of the provisions of any Financing Document, whether through the satisfaction or purported satisfaction by the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor of its debts due to any cause such as bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership, merger, consolidation, reorganization, dissolution, liquidation, winding-up or otherwise; or
(13)           any act or failure to act with regard to any Financing Document or anything which might vary the risk of any Guarantor; or
(14)           any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of any Guarantor in respect of the obligations of any Guarantor under this Guaranty;
that the specific enumeration of the above-mentioned acts, failures or omissions shall not be deemed to exclude any other acts, failures or omissions, though not specifically mentioned above, it being the purpose and intent of this Guaranty that the obligations of each Guarantor shall be absolute, irrevocable and unconditional and shall not be discharged, impaired or varied except by the payment of all Obligations of the Guaranteed Borrower in accordance with their respective terms whenever the same shall become due and payable and all other sums due and payable under any Financing Document, at the
provided
 
 
 
5
 
 
place specified in and all in the manner and with the effect provided in the Credit Agreement.  Without limiting the foregoing, it is understood that repeated and successive demands may be made and recoveries may be had hereunder as and when, from time to time, the Guaranteed Borrower shall default under or in respect of the terms of any Financing Document and that notwithstanding recovery hereunder for or in respect of any given default or defaults by the Guaranteed Borrower under any Financing Document shall remain in full force and effect and shall apply to each and every subsequent default.
(d)           All rights of the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party hereunder may be transferred or assigned at any time and shall be considered to be transferred or assigned at any time or from time to time upon the appointment of a successor to the Administrative Agent or any permitted transfer by a Lender of its rights under the Credit Agreement, whether with or without the consent of or notice to the Guarantors under this Guaranty or to the Guaranteed Borrower.
(e)           To the extent of any payments made under this Guaranty, each Guarantor shall be subrogated to the rights of the Administrative Agent and/or the Secured Parties to whom such payment was made, but such Guarantor covenants and agrees that such right of subrogation shall be subordinate in right of payment to the prior indefeasible final payment in cash in full of all amounts due and owing by the Guaranteed Borrower with respect to the Obligations of the Guaranteed Borrower under the Financing Documents and by the Guarantors under this Guaranty, and the Guarantors shall not take any action to enforce such right of subrogation, and the Guarantors shall not accept any payment in respect of such right of subrogation, until the Termination Date.  If any amount shall be paid to any Guarantor in violation of the preceding sentence at any time prior to the indefeasible payment in cash in full of all amounts payable by the Guaranteed Borrower under the Financing Documents and this Guaranty, such amount shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Secured Parties and shall forthwith be paid to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Secured Parties to be credited and applied to the amounts due or to become due with respect to all amounts payable by the Guaranteed Borrower under the Financing Documents and this Guaranty, whether matured or unmatured.  Each Guarantor acknowledges that it has received direct and indirect benefits from the financing arrangements contemplated by the Financing Documents and that the waiver set forth in this paragraph (e) is knowingly made as a result of the receipt of such benefits.
(f)           Each Guarantor agrees that, to the extent the Guaranteed Borrower, any other Guarantor or any other Person makes any payment under any of the Financing Documents with respect to the Guaranteed Borrower's Obligations, which payment or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, voided, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside, recovered, rescinded or is required to be retained by or repaid to a trustee, receiver, or any other Person under any bankruptcy code, common law, or equitable cause, then and to the extent of such payment, the obligation or the part thereof intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect with respect to the Guarantors obligations hereunder, as if said payment had not been made.  The liability of the Guarantors hereunder shall not be reduced or discharged, in whole or in part, by any payment to the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party from any source that is thereafter paid, returned or refunded in whole or in part by reason of the assertion of a claim of any kind relating thereto, including, but not limited to, any claim for breach of contract, breach of warranty, preference, illegality, invalidity, or fraud asserted by any account debtor or by any other Person.
(g)           Neither the Administrative Agent nor any Secured Party, shall be under any obligation:  (1) to marshal any assets in favor of the Guarantors or in payment of any or all of the liabilities of the Guaranteed Borrower under or in respect of the Financing Documents or the obligations of the Guarantors hereunder or (2) to pursue any other remedy that the Guarantors may or may not be able to pursue themselves and that may lighten the Guarantors burden, any right to which each Guarantor hereby expressly waives.
 
 
 
6
 
 
(h)           The obligations of each Guarantor under this Guaranty rank in right of payment with all other Indebtedness of such Guarantor which is not secured or which is not expressly subordinated in right of payment to any other Indebtedness of such Guarantor.
pari passu
Section 5.                      Representations and Warranties of the Guarantors
Each Guarantor represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and each Secured Party that:
(a)           Such Guarantor is a corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership or other legal entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of its jurisdiction of organization, and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership or other similar legal entity and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required by Law, other than those jurisdictions as to which the failure to be so qualified or in good standing could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on (1) the ability of such Guarantor to perform its obligations under this Guaranty, or (2) the validity or enforceability of this Guaranty against such Guarantor (herein in this , a ).  Such Guarantor has the power and authority to own or hold under lease the properties it purports to own or hold under lease, to transact the business it transacts and proposes to transact, to execute and deliver this Guaranty and to perform the provisions hereof.
Section 5
Material Adverse Effect
(b)           This Guaranty has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action on the part of such Guarantor, and this Guaranty constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Guarantor enforceable against such Guarantor in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by (1) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or conveyance or other similar Laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally and (2) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at Law).
(c)           The execution, delivery and performance by such Guarantor of this Guaranty will not (1) contravene, result in any breach of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation of any Lien in respect of any property of such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries under its charter documents, or except for contraventions, breaches or defaults which could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, under any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan, purchase or credit agreement, lease, or any other agreement or instrument to which such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries is bound or by which such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties may be bound or affected, (2) conflict with or result in a breach of any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any order, judgment, decree, or ruling of any court, arbitrator or Governmental Authority applicable to such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries or (3) violate any provision of any statute or other rule or regulation of any Governmental Authority applicable to the such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries.
(d)           No consent, approval or authorization of, or registration, filing or declaration with, any Governmental Authority is required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by such Guarantor of this Guaranty.
(e)           Such Guarantor is solvent, has capital not unreasonably small in relation to its business or any contemplated or undertaken transaction and has assets having a value both at fair valuation and at present fair salable value greater than the amount required to pay its debts as they become due and greater than the amount that will be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts as they become absolute and matured.  Such Guarantor does not intend to incur, or believe that it will incur, debts beyond
 
 
7
 
 
its ability to pay such debts as they become due.  Such Guarantor will not be rendered insolvent by the execution and delivery of, and performance of its obligations under, this Guaranty.  Such Guarantor does not intend to hinder, delay or defraud its creditors by or through the execution and delivery of, or performance of its obligations under, this Guaranty.
(f)           All representations in the Credit Agreement applicable to such Guarantors (or any of them) are true and correct in all material respects.
Section 6.                      Amendments, Waivers and Consents
This Guaranty may be amended, and the observance of any term hereof may be waived (either retroactively or prospectively), pursuant to the provisions of of the Credit Agreement.  This Guaranty may be amended by the addition of additional Guarantors pursuant to a Guaranty Joinder.
Section 11.1
Section 7.                      Submission to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial
                   .
Section 7.1.
Consent to Jurisdiction; Service of Process; Waiver of Jury Trial
(a)            Each Guarantor irrevocably submits to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any State of New York or federal court sitting in New York City, over any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Guaranty.  To the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable Law, each Guarantor irrevocably waives and agrees not to assert, by way of motion, as a defense or otherwise, any claim that it is not subject to the jurisdiction of any such court, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court and any claim that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
in personam
in personam
(b)           Each Guarantor agrees, to the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable Law, that a final judgment in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 7.1 brought in any such court shall be conclusive and binding upon such party, subject to rights of appeal and may be enforced in the courts of the United States of America or the State of New York (or any other courts to the jurisdiction of which such party is or may be subject) by a suit upon such judgment.
(c)           Each Guarantor consents to process being served in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in paragraph (a) of this by mailing a copy thereof by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the address of such Guarantor specified in Section 8 or at such other address of which you shall then have been notified pursuant to said Section or to any agent for service of process appointed pursuant to the provisions of .  Each Guarantor agrees that such service upon receipt (i) shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process upon it in any such suit, action or proceeding and (ii) shall, to the full extent permitted by Law, be taken and held to be valid personal service upon and personal delivery to such party.  Notices hereunder shall be conclusively presumed received as evidenced by a delivery receipt furnished by the United States Postal Service or any reputable commercial delivery service.
Section 7.1
Section 7.2
(d)           Nothing in this shall affect the right of the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties to serve process in any manner permitted by Law, or limit any right that the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties may have to bring proceedings against any Guarantor in the courts of any appropriate jurisdiction or to enforce in any lawful manner a judgment obtained in one jurisdiction in any other jurisdiction.
Section 7.1
 
 
 
8
 
 
(e)           Each Guarantor waives trial by jury in any action brought on or with respect to this Guaranty or the Financing Documents or any other document executed in connection herewith or therewith.
(f)           Any payment on account of any amount that is payable hereunder by any Guarantor in Dollars which is made to or for the account of the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party in currency of any other jurisdiction, or in the lawful currency of any other country, whether as a result of any judgment or order or the enforcement thereof or the realization of any security or the liquidation of such party, shall constitute a discharge of such partys obligation under this Guaranty only to the extent of the amount of Dollars which such Secured Party could purchase in the foreign exchange markets with the amount of currency of such other jurisdiction, or other currency, as the case may be, in accordance with normal banking procedures at the rate of exchange prevailing on the Business Day following receipt of the payment first referred to above.  If, the amount of Dollars that could be so purchased is less than the amount of Dollars originally due to the Administrative Agent and/or such Secured Party, each Guarantor agrees, to the full extent permitted by Law, to indemnify and save harmless the Administrative Agent and/or such Secured Party from and against all loss or damage arising out of or as a result of such deficiency.  This indemnity shall, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, constitute an obligation separate and independent from the other obligations contained in this Guaranty, shall give rise to a separate and independent cause of action, shall apply irrespective of any indulgence granted by the Administrative Agent and such Secured Party from time to time and, shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any judgment or order for a liquidated sum in respect of an amount due hereunder or under any judgment or order.
                      .  Each Guarantor hereby irrevocably designates, appoints and empowers DeVry and its successors as the designee, appointee and agent for each Guarantor to receive, accept and acknowledge, for and on behalf of such Guarantor and its properties, service of any and all legal process, summons, notices and documents which may be served in such action, suit or proceeding relating to this Guaranty in the case of the New York federal and state courts located in New York City, which service may be made on any such designee, appointee and agent in accordance with legal procedures prescribed for such courts. Each Guarantor agrees to take any and all action necessary to continue such designation in full force and effect and should such designee, appointee and agent become unavailable for this purpose for any reason, each Guarantor will forthwith irrevocably designate a new designee, appointee and agent, which shall irrevocably agree to act as such, with the powers and for purposes specified in this .  Each Guarantor further irrevocably consents and agrees to service of any and all legal process, summons, notices and documents out of any of the aforesaid courts in any such action, suit or proceeding relating to any Financing Document or this Guaranty delivered to such Guarantor in accordance with this or to its then designee, appointee or agent for service.  If service is made upon such designee, appointee and agent, a copy of such process, summons, notice or document shall also be provided to any Guarantor at the address specified in Section 8 by registered or certified mail, or overnight express air courier; that failure of such Secured Party to provide such copy to such Guarantor shall not impair or affect in any way the validity of such service or any judgment rendered in such action or proceedings.  Each Guarantor agrees that service upon such Guarantor or any such designee, appointee and agent as provided for herein shall constitute valid and effective personal service upon such Guarantor with respect to matters contemplated in this and that the failure of any such designee, appointee and agent to give any notice of such service to such Guarantor shall not impair or affect in any way the validity of such service or any judgment rendered in any action or proceeding based thereon.  Nothing herein shall, or shall be construed so as to, limit the right of the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties to bring actions, suits or proceedings with respect to the obligations and liabilities of any Guarantor under, or any other matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment rendered in any such action, suit or proceeding, in the courts of whatever jurisdiction in which the
Section 7.2.
Service of Process Upon Guarantors
Section 7.2
Section 7.2
provided
Section 7.2
 
 
9
 
 
respective offices of the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties may be located or assets of such Guarantor may be found or as otherwise shall to Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties seem appropriate, or to affect the right to service of process in any jurisdiction in any other manner permitted by Law.
                   .  All payments whatsoever under this Guaranty will be made by any Guarantor free and clear of, and without liability for withholding or deduction for or on account of, any present or future Tax imposed or levied by or on behalf of (i) its jurisdiction of organization or (ii) any jurisdiction from or through which any amount is paid by any Guarantor pursuant to the terms of this Guaranty (hereinafter, a ), unlessthe withholding or deduction of such Tax is compelled by Law.  If any deduction or withholding or payment for any tax shall at any time be compelled by Law, each Guarantor will pay such additional amounts as may be necessary in order that the net amounts paid to each Secured Party pursuant to the terms of this Guaranty after such deduction or withholding (including, without limitation, any required deduction, withholding or other payment of Tax on or with respect to such additional amount) shall be not less than the amounts then due and payable under the terms of this Guaranty.
Section 7.3.
Tax Indemnity
Taxing Jurisdiction
 
In connection with the transfer of rights under the Credit Agreement, each Guarantor will furnish the Administrative Agent and the transferee of such with copies of all tax forms then required. Each Guarantor will also furnish the Administrative Agent and the Secured Parties, within the period of payment permitted by applicable Law, an official receipt, if any, issued by the relevant taxation or other authorities involved for all amounts deducted or withheld as aforesaid.
                   .  Unless required by applicable Laws, at no time shall the Administrative Agent have any obligation to file for or otherwise pursue on behalf of a Secured Party, or have any obligation to pay to any Secured Party, any refund of Taxes withheld or deducted from funds paid for the account of such Secured Party.  If the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by any Guarantor or with respect to which any Guarantor has paid additional amounts pursuant to Section 7.3, it shall pay to such Guarantor an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by such Guarantor under Section 7.3 with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or Secured Party, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund), that each Guarantor, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Secured Party, agrees to repay the amount paid over to such Guarantor (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Secured Party in the event the Administrative Agent or such Secured Party is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority.  This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to any Guarantor or any other Person.
Section 7.4.
Repayment
provided
Section 8.                      Notices
All notices and communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing and sent (a) by facsimile if the sender on the same day sends a confirming copy of such notice by a recognized overnight delivery service (charges prepaid), or (b) by a recognized overnight delivery service (with charges prepaid).  Any such notice must be sent:
(1)           if to the Administrative Agent, to such address as listed in of the Credit Agreement, or
Schedule 11.2
 
 
 
10
 
 
(2)           if to any Guarantor, to such Guarantor c/o the Borrowers at One Tower Lane, Oakbrook Terrace, IL 60181, or at such other address as such Guarantor shall have specified to the Administrative Agent in writing.
Notices under this will be deemed given only when actually received.
Section 8
Section 9.                      Miscellaneous
(a)           No remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party is intended to be exclusive of any other available remedy or remedies, but each and every such remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy given under this Guaranty now or hereafter existing at Law or in equity.  No delay or omission to exercise any right or power accruing upon any default, omission or failure of performance hereunder shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver thereof but any such right or power may be exercised from time to time and as often as may be deemed expedient.  In order to entitle the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party to exercise any remedy reserved to it under the Guaranty, it shall not be necessary for such Administrative Agent or Secured Party to physically produce the Financing Documents in any proceedings instituted by it or to give any notice, other than such notice as may be herein expressly required.
(b)           The Guarantors will pay all sums becoming due under this Guaranty by the method and at the address specified for such purpose in the Credit Agreement, or by such other reasonable method or at such other address as the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties shall have from time to time specified to the Guarantors in writing for such purpose, without the presentation or surrender of this Guaranty or any Financing Documents.
(c)           Any provision of this Guaranty that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall (to the full extent permitted by Law) not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
(d)           If the whole or any part of this Guaranty shall be now or hereafter become unenforceable against any one or more of the Guarantors for any reason whatsoever or if it is not executed by any one or more of the Guarantors, this Guaranty shall nevertheless be and remain fully binding upon and enforceable against each other Guarantor as if it had been made and delivered only by such other Guarantors.
(e)           This Guaranty shall be binding upon each Guarantor and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the Administrative Agent and each Secured Party and its successors and assigns whether so expressed or not, until the Termination Date.
(f)           This Guaranty may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original but all of which together shall constitute one instrument.  Each counterpart may consist of a number of copies hereof, each signed by less than all, but together signed by all, of the parties hereto.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of this Agreement by facsimile or other electronic means shall be effective as an original.
(g)           This Guaranty shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and the rights of the parties shall be governed by the law of the State of New York.
 
 
11
 
 
(h)           The Recitals are incorporated into this Guaranty by reference with the same force and effect as though set forth herein in full.
(i)           The Administrative Agent is authorized to enforce this Guaranty on behalf of the Secured Parties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has caused this Offshore Subsidiary Guaranty to be duly executed by an authorized representative as of this _____ day of __________, 201__.
[INSERT GUARANTORS]
By    ____________________________________ 
Its _______________________________
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
form of guaranty joinder
This dated as of _________, _____ (the or this ) is entered into by the undersigned __________, a ____________ corporation ( an  ).  Terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Credit Agreement hereinafter referred to.
[guaranty joinder]
[
Guaranty Joinder
]
[on a joint and several basis]
[each of]
[and
____________
, a
___________
corporation]
[which parties are hereinafter referred to individually as]
Additional Guarantor
[and collectively as the 
Additional Guarantors
]
A.            Additional Guarantor, is presently an Offshore Subsidiary of [Insert applicable Designated Borrower], (the ).
[Each]
Guaranteed Borrower
B.           The Credit Extensions under the Credit Agreement have benefited and will continue to benefit the Borrowers and their Subsidiaries by, among other things, providing funds to enable the Borrowers to finance working capital and capital expenditures, support the issuance of standby letters of credit, make Restricted Payments to the extent permitted in of the Credit Agreement, and for other general corporate purposes.
Section 7.6
            Additional Guarantor is required by Section 6.12 of the Credit Agreement to enter into the Offshore Subsidiary Guaranty dated as of May 10, 2011 (the ) as security for the Obligations of the Guaranteed Borrower.
C
.
[
Each]
Guaranty
NOW, THEREFORE, as required by the Credit Agreement and in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency whereof are hereby acknowledged, Additional Guarantor does hereby covenant and agree, as follows:
[each/the]
[jointly and severally,]
In accordance with the requirements of the Guaranty, the Additional Guarantor desire to amend the definition of Guarantor (as the same may have been heretofore amended) set forth in the Guaranty attached hereto so that at all times from and after the date hereof, the Additional Guarantor shall be jointly and severally liable as Guarantors as set forth in the Guaranty for the Guaranteed Obligations of the Guaranteed Borrower to the extent and in the manner set forth in the Guaranty.
[s]
[s]
The undersigned is the duly elected ____________ of the Additional Guarantor and is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Guaranty Joinder for the benefit of all Secured Parties.  The execution by the undersigned of this Guaranty Joinder shall evidence its consent to and acknowledgment and approval of the terms set forth herein and in the Guaranty.  By its execution hereof, the Additional Guarantor shall be deemed to have made the representations and warranties set forth in Section 5 of the Guaranty in favor of the Secured Parties as of the date of this Guaranty Joinder.
[s]
[s]
Upon execution of this Guaranty Joinder, the Guaranty shall be deemed to be amended as set forth above.  The Additional Guarantor[s] hereby become a Guarantor under the Guaranty and as a Guarantor thereunder, hereby guarantees all Guaranteed Obligations.  Except as amended herein, the terms and provisions of the Guaranty are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved in all respects.
[s]
Any and all notices, requests, certificates and other instruments may refer to the Guaranty without making specific reference to this Guaranty Joinder, but nevertheless all such references shall be deemed to include this Guaranty Joinder unless the context shall otherwise require.
 
 
 
 
 
[NAME OF ADDITIONAL GUARANTOR]
By: ____________________________________
Its: ______________________________
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT G
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit B       -        U.S. Pledged Stock
Exhibit B       -        Pledge Agreement Joinder
 
 
i
 
(as the same may be amended or modified from time to time, this ) is dated as of May 10, 2011, by and among DeVry Inc., a Delaware corporation (), the Designated Borrowers party hereto or who may become a party hereto (together with DeVry, the ) by executing and delivering a Pledge Agreement Joinder (a ) as hereinafter defined, certain subsidiaries of the Obligors party hereto or who may become a party hereto by executing and delivering a Joinder (such subsidiaries, the Obligors and any other Person which grants any Collateral to the Administrative Agent hereunder or any other security document securing the Secured Obligations, are collectively referred to as the ), and Bank of America, N.A., in its capacity as Administrative Agent hereunder.
THIS PLEDGE AGREEMENT
Agreement
DeVry
Obligors
Joinder
Grantors
A.           Pursuant to the terms of that certain Credit Agreement dated as of even date herewith (as amended, restated, superseded or otherwise modified from time to time, the ) among the Obligors, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, and the banks and other lenders or institutions from time to time party thereto (the ), the Banks are extending credit to the Obligors on the terms provided therein.  The obligations of DeVry under the Credit Agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by certain U.S. Subsidiaries of DeVry, and the obligations of the Designated Borrowers under the Credit Agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by DeVry, by certain U.S. Subsidiaries of DeVry and by certain Offshore Subsidiaries of each Designated Borrower.
Credit Agreement
Banks
B.           As a condition to the extension of financial accommodations to be given under the Credit Agreement by the Banks, the Banks are requiring that the Obligors and the other Grantors and the Administrative Agent enter into this Agreement to secure the obligations of each Grantor in respect of the Financing Agreements,
C.           The Grantors have determined that the execution and delivery of this Agreement is in furtherance of their corporate purposes and in their best interest and that they will derive substantial benefit, whether directly or indirectly, from the execution of this Agreement, having regard for all relevant facts and circumstances.
, in consideration of the premises and for the purpose of inducing the extension of financial accommodations by the Banks pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto do hereby covenant and agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
                      .  As used in this Agreement, capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Credit Agreement and the following terms have the meanings indicated below, all such definitions to be equally applicable to singular and plural forms of the terms defined:
Section 1.1
Defined Terms
 means any Grantor that has executed a joinder to this Agreement in the form of hereto.
Additional Grantor
Exhibit B
 
 
 
 
 
 has the meaning ascribed to that term in recitals hereto.
Banks
 means the Uniform Commercial Code as the same may from time to time be in effect in any applicable jurisdiction.
Code
 means the Pledged Stock, any additional collateral granted pursuant to and any other collateral held or received by any Secured Party to secure payment of any Secured Obligation.
Collateral
Section 6.3
 has the meaning ascribed to that term in recitals hereto.
Credit Agreement
 means, (i) with respect to any corporation, any capital stock of such corporation, (ii) with respect to any partnership or limited partnership, any partnership or limited partnership interest in such partnership or limited partnership, (iii) with respect to any limited liability company, any membership interest in such limited liability company, and (iv) with respect to any other business entity, any equity or ownership interest in such business entity.
Equity Interests
 means the Loan Documents and any Specified Swap Contract among a Loan Party and a Bank or an Affiliate of a Bank.
Financing Agreements
 has the meaning assigned thereto in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Grantors
 shall have the meaning assigned thereto in the introductory paragraph hereto in the form of or such other form that is acceptable to the Administrative Agent.
Joinder
Exhibit B
 has the meaning ascribed to such term in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
Obligors
 means any (a) Designated Borrower, (b) any of its Offshore Subsidiaries and (c) any Person organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States who grants any Collateral to the Administrative Agent hereunder or any other security document securing any Secured Obligations.
Offshore Grantor
 means Liens permitted under Sections 7.1(c), (d), (f), (h), (i) or (j) of the Credit Agreement.
Permitted Liens
 means the Equity Interests pledged by the Grantors pursuant to of this Agreement.
Pledged Stock
Section 2.1
 has the meaning assigned to it under the Code and, in any event, includes but is not limited to, (a) any and all proceeds of any collection, sale or other disposition of the Collateral (b) any and all amounts from time to time paid or payable under or in connection with any of the Collateral and (c) amounts collected by the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party by of set-off, deduction or counterclaim.
Proceeds
 means, with respect to any Pledged Stock of a Subsidiary, all rights, authority, powers and privileges of the owner of such Pledged Stock, and all moneys and property and claims for moneys and property due and to become due to such owner under all dividends, distributions, declarations, profits, accounts, contract rights, voting rights, general intangibles, proceeds and any and all other interests and property rights relating to and/or due from such Subsidiary.
Related Equity Rights
 
 
2
 
 
 means (a) with respect to any U.S. Grantor, all Obligations, (b) with respect to any Offshore Grantor who is a Designated Borrower, such Grantors Obligations under any of the Financing Agreements and (c) with respect to any other Offshore Grantor, such Offshore Grantors Guaranteed Obligations as defined in the Offshore Guaranty to which it is a party.
Secured Obligations
 means the holders, from time to time, of the Secured Obligations.
Secured Parties
 means  any U.S. Foreign Holdco that directly or indirectly owns Equity Interests of a Designated Borrower.
U.S Foreign Holdco Grantor
 means DeVry, and any of its U.S. Subsidiaries and any other Person organized under the Laws of a jurisdiction located within the United States who grants any Collateral to the Administrative Agent hereunder or any other security document securing any Secured Obligations; provided however, a U.S. Foreign Holdco shall not be a U.S. Grantor.
U.S. Grantor
           .
Section 2
.
1
.
Pledged Stock
(a)           To secure the prompt payment and performance in full when due (whether by lapse of time, acceleration or otherwise) of the Secured Obligations, each U.S. Grantor hereby pledges, charges, assigns, transfers and sets over to the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Secured Parties, and hereby pledges, charges, assigns, transfers and grants to the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Secured Parties, a continuing security interest in all of such U.S. Grantors interest and property rights, whether now existing or hereafter acquired or arising, in and to:  (i) 100% of the Equity Interests directly owned by such U.S. Grantor of each U.S. Subsidiary that is not also a U.S. Foreign Holdco, (ii) 65% of the Equity Interests directly owned by such U.S. Grantor of each Designated Borrower, (ii) 65% of the Equity Interests directly owned by such U.S. Grantor of each Offshore Subsidiary and each U.S. Foreign Holdco that, in each case, directly owns Equity Interests in such Designated Borrower and (iii) all Related Equity Rights of the foregoing.
(b)           To secure the prompt payment and performance in full when due (whether by lapse of time, acceleration or otherwise) by each Designated Borrower of the Obligations of such Designated Borrower, each U.S. Grantor and each U.S Foreign Holdco Grantorhereby pledges, charges, assigns, transfers and sets over to the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Secured Parties, and hereby pledges, charges, assigns, transfers and grants to the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Secured Parties, a continuing security interest in all of such Grantors interest and property rights, whether now existing or hereafter acquired or arising, in and to:  (i) 100% of the Equity Interests directly owned by such Grantor of such Designated Borrower, (ii) 100% of the Equity Interests directly owned by such Grantor of each Offshore Subsidiary that directly owns Equity Interests in such Designated Borrower, (iii) 100% of the Equity Interests directly owned by such Grantor of each U.S. Foreign Holdco that directly owns Equity Interests in such Designated Borrower and (iv) all Related Equity Rights of the foregoing.
 
 
 
3
 
 
(c)           To secure the prompt payment and performance in full when due (whether by lapse of time, acceleration or otherwise) by each Designated Borrower of the Obligations of such Designated Borrower, each Offshore Grantor hereby pledges, charges, assigns, transfers and sets over to the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Secured Parties, and hereby pledges, charges, assigns, transfers and grants to the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Secured Parties, a continuing security interest in all of such Offshore Grantors interest and property rights, whether now existing or hereafter acquired or arising, in and to:  (i) 100% of the Equity Interests directly owned by such Offshore Grantor of such Designated Borrower, (ii) 100% of the Equity Interests directly owned by such Grantor of each Offshore Subsidiary that directly owns Equity Interests in such Designated Borrower, (iii) 100% of the Equity Interests directly owned by such Grantor of each Offshore Subsidiary that is a Subsidiary of such Designated Borrower and (iv) all Related Equity Rights of the foregoing.
(d)           Notwithstanding any provision of this or any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, it is understood that (i) as of the date hereof, the Equity Interest in (i) Ross University School of Medicine School of Veterinary Medicine (St. Kitts) Limited and Ross (Bahamas) Ltd. shall not be pledged pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such pledge is required under the Credit Agreement and (ii) no Dormant Subsidiary shall be pledged pursuant to this Agreement.
Section 2.1
          .  Each Secured Party agrees to promptly deliver to the Administrative Agent any other Collateral that it receives or holds, accompanied by documentation acceptable to the Administrative Agent, to be held as security for the Secured Obligations in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Section 2
.
2
.
Delivery of Collateral by Secured Parties
Each Grantor represents and warrants with respect to itself and the Collateral pledged and charged by such Grantor to, the Secured Parties that:
(a)           It is the owner of the Pledged Stock pledged and charged pursuant to this Agreement, and all rights incident thereto free and clear of any Lien other than the pledge and charge made hereunder and Permitted Liens.
(b)           If such Pledged Stock is certificated, it has deposited with the Administrative Agent the Pledged Stock pledged by such Grantor, together with a stock power duly endorsed in blank or accompanied by an assignment or assignments sufficient to transfer title thereto except to the extent that applicable Law requires the same, such forms must be executed by the purchaser and/or notarized in order for such stock power or transfer to be recorded.
(c)           This Agreement creates a valid security interest in the Collateral pledged by such Grantor securing payment and performance of the Secured Obligations and all filings and other action necessary to perfect such security interest under all applicable jurisdictions have been or will be taken contemporaneously with the initial funding under the Credit Agreement.
(d)           Each share of Pledged Stock is adequately described in and is subject to the lien of this Agreement.  The Administrative Agent has a valid first lien upon and (upon filing of certain documents in foreign jurisdictions) prior perfected security interest in the Pledged Stock
 
 
 
4
 
 
subject to no equal or prior lien on the Pledged Stock(other than Liens permitted by Section 7.1(j) of the Credit Agreement).  No effective financing statement or other instrument similar in effect covering all or any part of the Pledge Stock is on file in any recording office, except such as may have been filed in favor of the Administrative Agent with respect to this Agreement.
 
(e)           Each Grantor represents and warrants that the representations and warrants made with respect to such Grantor set forth in the Loan Documents are true and correct and such representations and warranties are incorporated herein by reference with the same force and effect as though set forth herein in full.
(f)           As of the date hereof, the Pledged Stock is identified on hereto.
Exhibit A
Each Grantor, with respect to itself and the Collateral pledged and charged by it hereunder, covenants and agrees with the Secured Parties that:
(a)           Such Grantor will pay promptly when due all taxes, assessments, and governmental charges and levies upon or against the Collateral in each case before the same become delinquent and before penalties accrue thereon, unless (1) the validity, applicability or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate actions or proceedings which will prevent the forfeiture or sale of such Collateral or any material interference with the use thereof by such Grantor and (2) such Grantor shall have set aside on its books, reserves deemed by it to be adequate with respect thereto in accordance with and as required by GAAP.
(b)           It will not, without the Administrative Agents prior written consent, Dispose of or otherwise permit a Lien (other than Permitted Liens) to exist on Collateral or any interest therein, provided that such Grantor may sell, assign or otherwise Dispose of any Collateral or interest therein if such Disposition is permitted by the Credit Agreement.
(c)           It will not will change its name, or except as aforesaid, transact business under any trade name, in each case without first giving the Administrative Agent 30 days prior written notice of its intent to do so, that in the case of any Acquisition by such Grantor of any business entity or operation giving rise to the requirement to give notice to the Administrative Agent of the use of a new trade name pursuant to the foregoing, such notice shall be given to the Administrative Agent within 30 days following the date such Acquisition is finalized.
provided
(d)           The Administrative Agent agrees to prepare, and such Grantor agrees to cooperate with the Administrative Agent to execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent, such further agreements and assignments or other instruments and to do all such other things necessary or reasonably appropriate to assure the Administrative Agent its security interest hereunder, including such financing statement or statements, continuation statements or amendments thereof or supplements thereto or other instruments as may from time to time be required in order to comply with the Code.
 
 
5
 
 
(e)           In the event for any reason the Law of any jurisdiction other than the State of New York becomes or is applicable to the Collateral or any part thereof, or to any of the Secured Obligations, each Grantor agrees to execute and deliver all such instruments and to do all such other things as the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion reasonably deems necessary or appropriate to preserve, protect and enforce the security interest of the Administrative Agent as set forth herein under the Law of such other jurisdiction to at least the same extent as such security interest would be protected under the Code.  If any Collateral is in the possession or control of any of such Grantors agents or processors and the Administrative Agent so requests, such Grantor agrees to notify such agents or processors in writing of the Administrative Agents security interest therein and, upon the occurrence and continuance of an Event of Default and at the Administrative Agents request, instruct all agents and processors in possession of Collateral to hold all such Collateral for the Administrative Agents account and subject to the Administrative Agents instructions.
(f)           It shall respond promptly to all reasonable requests of the Administrative Agent for information concerning the conduct of all lawsuits brought by such Grantor (or in which such Grantor participates) against any other Person.  Each Grantor will warrant and defend the Collateral pledged by it hereunder against any claims and demands of all persons at any time claiming the same or any interest in such Collateral adverse to the Administrative Agent.
(g)           Each Grantor shall remain liable to the Secured Parties under the Financing Agreements to which it is a party for any deficiency resulting after the sale of its Collateral. Any surplus remaining after the full payment and satisfaction of the Secured Obligations shall be returned to the applicable Grantor or whomsoever the Administrative Agent reasonably determines is lawfully entitled thereto.
(h)           The Collateral and every part thereof will be free and clear of all security interests, liens (including without limitation mechanics, laborers and statutory liens), attachments, levies and encumbrances of every kind, nature and description, whether voluntary or involuntary, other than the security interest granted hereunder and Permitted Liens.
On failure of any Grantor to perform any of the covenants and agreements contained herein or in any other Loan Document, the Administrative Agent may, at its option, perform the same and in so doing may expend such sums as the Administrative Agent may reasonably deem advisable in the performance thereof, including without limitation the payment of any insurance premiums, the payment of any taxes, liens and encumbrances, expenditures made in defending against any adverse claim and all other expenditures which the Administrative Agent may be compelled to make by operation of Law or which the Administrative Agent may make by agreement or otherwise for the protection of the security hereof.  All such sums and amounts so expended shall be repayable by the applicable Grantor immediately without notice or demand, shall constitute so much additional Secured Obligations and shall bear interest from the date said amounts are expended at the Default Rate.  No such performance of any covenant or agreement by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Grantors, and no such advancement or expenditure therefor, shall relieve the Grantors of any Default under the terms of this Agreement.  The Administrative Agent, in making any payment hereby authorized may do so according to any bill, statement or estimate procured from the appropriate public office or holder of the claim to be discharged without inquiry into the accuracy of such bill, statement or estimate or into the validity of any tax assessment, sale, forfeiture, tax lien or title or claim.  The Administrative Agent, in performing any act hereunder, shall be the sole judge in reasonably determining whether the Grantors are required to perform the same under the terms of this Agreement.
 
 
6
 
 
            .
Section 6
.
1
Voting and Payment Rights in Respect of Pledged Equity
Until an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent instructs the Grantors otherwise, the Grantors shall be entitled:
(a)           To vote all or any part of the Pledged Stock at any and all meetings of shareholders relating to such Pledged Stock and to execute consents in respect thereof, and to consent to ratify or waive notice of any or all meetings of the shareholders relating to such Pledged Stock with the same force and effect as if this Agreement had not been made, and, if necessary, upon the receipt of the written request from the applicable Grantor, the Administrative Agent shall from time to time execute and deliver to the applicable Grantor appropriate proxies for that purpose; and
(b)           To receive, collect or have paid over all dividends declared or paid on the Pledged Stock, except (i) dividends or distributions constituting stock dividends, (ii) dividends or distributions in kind, or (iii) liquidating dividends (either partial or complete), any and all such excepted dividends and distributions to constitute and be additional security for the purposes aforesaid and to be paid over and/or pledged and deposited with the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent shall have in respect thereof all of the powers and rights as are herein provided in respect of the initial Pledged Stock.
           .  Each Grantor agrees that it shall pay over to the Administrative Agent, immediately upon receipt, any money or other distribution upon or in respect of the Pledged Stock or any part thereof, other than dividends which such Grantor is entitled to receive or retain under above.
Section 6
.
2
.
Payments to Administrative Agent
Section 6.1
 
            .  Each Grantor agrees that it shall comply with the requirements of Section 6.13 of the Credit Agreement with respect to all Equity Interests now or hereafter owned by such Grantor.
Section 6
.
3
.
Further Assurances
            .  All payments or other distributions received by such Grantor upon or in respect of the Pledged Stock other than which such Grantor is entitled to receive and retain under or shall be held in trust for the Administrative Agent and forthwith delivered by such Grantor in the form received, with such Grantors endorsement in blank for transfer or accompanied by an assignment or assignments sufficient to transfer title thereto, and shall constitute part of the Pledged Stock.
Section 6
.
4
.
Payments and Distributions Held in Trust
Section 6.1
Section 6.3
Each Grantor hereby appoints the Administrative Agent the attorney-in-fact of such Grantor for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Agreement and taking any action and executing or completing any instruments which the Administrative Agent may deem reasonably necessary or advisable
 
 
 
7
 
 
to accomplish the purpose hereof, which appointment as attorney-in-fact is irrevocable and coupled with an interest; , , that the Administrative Agent shall have no duty or obligation to any Grantor to collect or enforce payment of any of the Pledged Stock whether by way of presentment, demand, protest, notice of dishonor or otherwise.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, after the happening, but only during the continuance, of any Event of Default, the Administrative Agent shall have the right and power to receive, endorse and collect all checks made payable to the order of any Grantor representing payments of dividends or any other distribution or payment in respect of the Pledged Stock or any part thereof and to give full discharge for the same.
provided
however
Whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated, the U.S. Grantors and the Offshore Grantors, shall indemnify, defend and hold the Administrative Agent, each Secured Party and any of their respective Related Parties (each, an ) harmless from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, charges, expenses and disbursements (including attorney costs) of any kind or nature whatsoever which may at any time be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against any such Person in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any document contemplated by or referred to herein, or the transactions contemplated hereby, or any action taken or omitted by any such Person under or in connection with any of the foregoing, including with respect to any investigation, litigation or proceeding (including any insolvency proceeding or appellate proceeding) related to or arising out of this Agreement or the Secured Obligations or the use of the proceeds thereof, whether or not any Indemnified Person is a party thereto (all the foregoing, collectively, the ); , that the Grantors shall have no obligation hereunder to any Indemnified Person with respect to Indemnified Liabilities resulting solely from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnified Person.  The agreements in this Section shall survive payment of all Secured Obligations.
Indemnified Person
Indemnified Liabilities
provided
(a)           With respect to all of the Collateral other than cash , upon the occurrence and during the continuation of any Event of Default, the Administrative Agent shall have, in addition to all other rights provided herein or by Law, the rights and remedies of a secured party under the Code (regardless of whether the Code is the Law of the jurisdiction where the rights or remedies are asserted and regardless of whether the Code applies to the affected Collateral), and further the Administrative Agent may, without demand and without advertisement, except with respect to a public sale, hearing or process of Law, all of which each Grantor hereby waives, at any time or times, sell and deliver any or all Collateral (other than cash) held by or for it at public or private sale, for cash, upon credit or otherwise, at such prices and upon such terms as the Administrative Agent deems advisable, in its sole discretion, provided that said disposition complies with any legal requirements.  In addition to all other sums due any Secured Party, each Grantor shall pay the Administrative Agent all costs and expenses incurred by it, including a reasonable allowance for attorneys fees and court costs, in obtaining, liquidating or enforcing payment of its Collateral or Secured Obligations or in the prosecution or defense of any action or proceeding by or against the Administrative Agent concerning any matter arising out of or connected with this Agreement, its Collateral or Secured Obligations, including without limitation any of the foregoing arising in, arising under or related to a case under the United States Bankruptcy Code (or any successor
 
 
8
 
 
statute).  Any requirement of reasonable notice shall be met if such notice is personally served on or mailed, postage prepaid, to the Grantors in accordance with at least 10 days before the time of sale or other event giving rise to the requirement of such notice; however, no notification need be given to the Grantors if the Grantors have signed, after an Event of Default has occurred, a statement renouncing any right to notification of sale or other intended disposition, provided that the Grantors are not hereby agreeing to sign such a statement.  The Administrative Agent shall not be obligated to make any sale or other disposition of the Collateral regardless of notice having been given.  To the extent permitted by Law, the Administrative Agent or any Bank may be the purchaser at any such sale.  To the extent permitted by applicable Law, the Grantors hereby waive all of their rights of redemption from any such sale.  Subject to the provisions of applicable Law, the Administrative Agent may postpone or cause the postponement of the sale of all or any portion of the Collateral by announcement at the time and place of such sale, and such sale may, without further notice, be made at the time and place to which the sale was postponed or the Administrative Agent may further postpone such sale by announcement made at such time and place.
Section 11(c)
(b)           With respect to cash, upon the occurrence and during the continuation of any Event of Default, the Administrative Agent shall have, in addition to all other rights provided herein or by Law, the rights and remedies of a secured party under the Code (regardless of whether the Code is the Law of the jurisdiction where the rights or remedies are asserted and regardless of whether the Code applies to the affected Collateral), the right to exercise exclusive control over any proceeds of Collateral in its possession or held at any bank or in any lockbox, including cash, including without limitation the right to collect, withdraw and receive all amounts due or to become due or payable under each such deposit account, and shall have the right to apply such amounts in reduction of the Secured Obligations as contemplated by Section 8.3 of the Credit Agreement.
(c)           Failure by the Administrative Agent to exercise any right, remedy or option under this Agreement or any other agreement among the Grantors and the Administrative Agent or provided by Law, or delay by the Administrative Agent in exercising the same, shall not operate as a waiver; no waiver hereunder shall be effective unless it is in writing, signed by the party against whom such waiver is sought to be enforced and then only to the extent specifically stated.  Neither the Administrative Agent nor any party acting as attorney for the Administrative Agent shall be liable hereunder for any acts or omissions or for any error of judgment or mistake of fact or law other than their gross negligence or willful misconduct.  The rights and remedies of the Secured Parties under this Agreement shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any other right or remedy which the Secured Parties may have.
This Agreement shall be a continuing agreement in every respect and shall remain in full force and effect until all of the Secured Obligations have been fully paid and satisfied in cash, all outstanding Letters of Credit have either terminated or expired, and any commitments of any Secured Party to extend any credit to any Grantor under the Credit Agreement shall have terminated.  Upon such termination of this Agreement, the Administrative Agent shall, upon the request and at the expense of the Grantors, forthwith release all its liens, charges and security interests hereunder.
 
 
 
9
 
ARTICLE XI
(a)           Pursuant to a supplement acceptable to the Administrative Agent, any present or future Grantor may from time to time pledge additional collateral to the Administrative Agent whereupon such additional collateral shall automatically become Collateral hereunder.  It being understood that the execution thereof by the Administrative Agent and/or any other Grantors shall not be required in order for such supplement to be effective.  Pursuant to a Joinder, any Person may become a Grantor hereunder and pledge collateral to the Administrative Agent as described in to the Joinder whereupon such collateral shall automatically become Collateral hereunder.  The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Secured Parties of the execution on any such Joinder, it being understood that the execution thereof by the Secured Parties, the Administrative Agent and/or any other Grantors shall not be required in order for such supplement to be effective.
Exhibit A
(b)           This Agreement shall create a continuing security interest in the Collateral and shall be binding upon the Grantors, their successors and assigns and shall inure, together with the rights and remedies of the Secured Parties hereunder, to the benefit of the Secured Parties and their respective successors and assigns which are permitted under the Credit Agreement provided, however, that no Grantor may assign its rights or delegate its duties hereunder without the Administrative Agents prior written consent.  Each Grantor hereby releases the Administrative Agent from any liability for any act or omission relating to the Collateral or this Agreement, except the Administrative Agents gross negligence or willful misconduct.
(c)           All notices required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall be in conformance with of the Credit Agreement.
Section 11.2
(d)           In the event that any provision hereof shall be deemed to be invalid by reason of the operation of any Law or by reason of the interpretation placed thereon by any court, this Agreement shall be construed as not containing such provision, but only as to such jurisdictions where such Law or interpretation is operative, and the invalidity of such provision shall not affect the validity of any remaining provision hereof, and any and all other provisions hereof which are otherwise lawful and valid shall remain in full force and effect.
(e)           This Agreement shall be deemed to have been made in the State of New York and shall be governed by and in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to principles of conflicts of laws.  All terms which are used in this Agreement which are defined in the Code shall have the same meanings herein as said terms do in the Code unless this Agreement shall otherwise specifically provide, The headings in this instrument are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning of any provision hereof.
(f)           The Administrative Agent hereby disclaims any representation or warranty to the Secured Parties concerning the perfection of the security interest granted hereunder or in the value of any of the Collateral.
(g)           Each of the Grantors and the Administrative Agent hereby, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, waives trial by jury in any action brought under or in connection with this Agreement or any of the documents or instruments executed in connection herewith.
 
 
10
 
 
(h)           This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto on separate counterparts, each constituting an original, but all together one and the same instrument.  It shall not be necessary in making proof of this Agreement to produce or account for more than one such counterpart.  Delivery of executed counterparts of this Agreement by facsimile or other electronic means shall be effective as an original.
(a)           Each Grantor agrees that no Secured Party shall have any responsibility to inquire into the apportionment, allocation or disposition of any Proceeds as among the Grantors.
(b)           For the purpose of implementing the Financing Agreements, each Grantor hereby irrevocably appoints DeVry as its agent and attorney-in-fact for all purposes of the Financing Agreements, including without limitation the giving and receiving of notices and other communications.
(c)           Each Grantor acknowledges that the handling of the Collateral on a joint basis as set forth in this Agreement is solely an accommodation to Grantors and is done at their request.  Each Grantor agrees that no Secured Party shall incur any liability to any Grantor as a result thereof.  To induce the Secured Parties to enter into this Agreement, and in consideration thereof, each Grantor hereby agrees to indemnify each Secured Party and hold each Secured Party harmless from and against any and all liabilities, expenses, losses, damages and/or claims of damage or injury asserted against any Secured Party by any Grantor or by any other Person arising from or incurred by reason of the structuring of this Agreement as herein provided, reliance by any Secured Party on any requests or instructions from any Grantor, or any other action taken by any Secured Party hereunder, except to the extent resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of any Secured Party.  This Section shall survive termination of this Agreement.
(d)           Each Grantor represents and warrants to the Secured Parties that the request for joint handling of the Collateral hereunder was made because the Grantors are engaged in related operations.  Each Grantor expects to derive benefit, directly or indirectly, from such availability because the successful operation of Grantors is dependent on the continued successful performance of the functions of the group.
(e)           Each Grantor represents and warrants to the Secured Parties that (i) it has established adequate means of obtaining from each other Grantor on a continuing basis financial and other information pertaining to the business, operations and condition (financial and otherwise) of each other Grantors and their respective property, and (ii) each Grantor now is and hereafter will be completely familiar with the business, operations and condition (financial and otherwise) of each other Grantor, and its property.  Each Grantor hereby waives and relinquishes any duty on the part of any Secured Party to disclose to such Grantor any matter, fact or thing relating to the business, operations or condition (financial or otherwise) of any other Grantor, or the property of any other Grantor, whether now or hereafter known by any Secured Party during the life of this Agreement.
 
 
11
 
 
(f)           Each Grantor acknowledges that its Secured Obligations may derive from value provided directly to another Person and, in full recognition of that fact, each Grantor consents and agrees that any Secured Party may, at any time and from time to time, without notice to, or demand on, or the agreement of, such Grantor, and without affecting the enforceability or security of the Financing Agreements: (i) with the agreement of any other Grantor, supplement, modify, amend, extend, renew, accelerate, or otherwise change the time for payment or the terms of the Secured Obligations or any part thereof, including any increase or decrease of the rate(s) of interest thereon; (ii) with the agreement of any other Grantor, supplement, modify, amend or waive, or enter into or give any agreement, approval or consent with respect to, the Secured Obligations or any part thereof or any of the Financing Agreements or any additional security or guaranties, or any condition, covenant, default, remedy, right, representation or term thereof or thereunder; (iii) with the agreement of any other Grantor, accept new or additional instruments, documents or agreements in exchange for or relative to any of the Financing Agreements or the Secured Obligations or any part thereof, (iv) accept partial payments on the Secured Obligations; (v) with the agreement of any other Grantor, receive and hold additional security or guaranties for the Secured Obligations or any part thereof, (vi) release, reconvey, terminate, waive, abandon, subordinate, exchange, substitute, transfer and enforce any security or guaranties, and apply any security and direct the order or manner of sale thereof as the Secured Parties in their sole and absolute discretion may determine; (vii) release any party or any guarantor from any personal liability with respect to the Secured Obligations or any part thereof; (viii) settle, release on terms satisfactory to the Secured Parties and any other Grantor or by operation of applicable laws or otherwise liquidate or enforce any Secured Obligations and any security or guaranty in any manner, consent to the transfer of any security and bid and purchase at any sale; and/or (ix) consent to the merger, change or any other restructuring or termination of the corporate existence of any other Grantor or any other Person, and correspondingly restructure the Secured Obligations, continuing existence of any Lien under any other Financing Agreement to which any Grantor is a party or the enforceability hereof or thereof with respect to all or any part of the Secured Obligations.
Each Grantor expressly waives any right to require any Secured Party to marshal assets in favor of any Grantor, any other Person or any other Person or to proceed against any other Grantor or any other Person or any Collateral provided by any other Grantor or any other Person, and agrees that any Secured Party may proceed against Grantors and/or the Collateral in such order as they shall determine in their sole and absolute discretion.  Any Secured Party may file a separate action or actions against any Grantor, whether action is brought or prosecuted with respect to any other security or against any other Person, or whether any other Person is joined in any such action or actions.  Each Grantor agrees that any Secured Party and any other Grantor may deal with each other in connection with the Secured Obligations or otherwise, or alter any contracts or agreements now or hereafter existing between any of them, in any manner whatsoever, all without in any way altering or affecting the obligations of such Grantor under the Financing Agreements.  Each Grantor expressly waives any and all defenses now or hereafter arising or asserted by reason of (a) any disability or other defense of any other Grantor or any other Secured Party with respect to any Secured Obligations, (b) the unenforceability or invalidity as to any other Grantor or any other Person of the Secured Obligations, (c) the unenforceability or invalidity of any security or guaranty for the Secured Obligations or the lack of perfection or continuing perfection or failure of priority of any security for the Secured Obligations, (d) the cessation for any cause whatsoever of the liability of any Grantor or any other Person (other than by reason of the full payment and performance of all Secured Obligations), (e) to the extent permitted by Law, any failure of any Secured Party to give notice of sale or other disposition to any Grantor or any defect in any notice that may be given in connection with any sale or disposition, (f) to the extent permitted by Law, any failure of any Secured Party to comply with applicable Laws in connection with the sale or other disposition of any Collateral or other security for any Secured Obligation, including without limitation any failure of any Secured Party
 
 
12
 
 
to conduct a commercially reasonable sale or other disposition of any Collateral or other security for any obligation, (g) any act or omission of any Secured Party or others that directly or indirectly results in or aids the discharge or release of any Grantor or any other Person or the Secured Obligations or any other security or guaranty therefor by operation of Law or otherwise, (h) any Law which provides that the obligation of a surety or guarantor must neither be larger in amount nor in other respects more burdensome than that of the principal or which reduces a suretys or guarantors obligation in proportion to the principal obligation, (i) any failure of any Secured Party to file or enforce a claim in any bankruptcy or other proceeding with respect to any other Grantor, (j) the election by any Secured Party, in any bankruptcy proceeding of any other Grantor, of the application or non-application of Section 1111(b)(2) of the United States Bankruptcy Code, (k) any extension of credit or the grant of any Lien under Section 364 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in connection with the bankruptcy of any other Grantor, (1) any use of cash collateral under Section 363 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, or (m) any agreement or stipulation with any other Grantor with respect to the provision of adequate protection in any bankruptcy proceeding of any Person.
(g)           in the event that all or any part of the Secured Obligations at any time are secured by any one or more deeds of trust or mortgages creating or granting liens on any interests in real property, each Grantor authorizes any Secured Party, upon the occurrence of and during the continuance of any Default or Event of Default, at their sole option, without notice or demand and without affecting any Secured Obligations or the validity or enforceability of any Liens of any Secured Party on any Collateral, to foreclose any or all of such deeds of trust or mortgages by judicial or nonjudicial sale.  Each Grantor expressly waives any defenses to the enforcement of the Financing Agreements or any Liens created or granted under the Financing Agreements or to the recovery by any Secured Party against any other Grantor or any guarantor or any other Person liable therefor of any deficiency after a judicial or nonjudicial foreclosure or sale, even though such a foreclosure or sale may impair the subrogation rights of a Grantor and may preclude Grantor from obtaining reimbursement or contribution from any Grantor.
(h)           To the extent that any Collateral pledged by a Grantor is sold hereunder and applied as payment of such Grantors obligations under its Guaranty of the Secured Obligations, such Grantors rights of subrogation shall be as set forth in such Guaranty.
Section 13.1         .
Consent to Jurisdiction; Service of Process; Judgment Currency; Waiver of Jury Trial
(a)           Each Grantor irrevocably submits to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any New York State or federal court sitting in New York City, over any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement.  To the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable Law, each Grantor irrevocably waives and agrees not to assert, by way of motion, as a defense or otherwise, any claim that it is not subject to the jurisdiction of any such court, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court and any claim that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
in personam
in personam
 
 
13
 
 
(b)           Each Grantor agrees, to the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable Law, that a final judgment in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in paragraph (a) of this brought in any such court shall be conclusive and binding upon such party, subject to rights of appeal and may be enforced in the courts of the United States of America or the State of New York (or any other courts to the jurisdiction of which such party is or may be subject) by a suit upon such judgment.
Section 13.1
(c)           Each Grantor consents to process being served in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in paragraph (a) of this in accordance with or to any agent for service of process appointed pursuant to the provisions of .  Each Grantor agrees that such service upon receipt (i) shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process upon it in any such suit, action or proceeding and (ii) shall, to the full extent permitted by Law, be taken and held to be valid personal service upon and personal delivery to such party.  Notices hereunder shall be conclusively presumed received as evidenced by a delivery receipt furnished by the United States Postal Service or any reputable commercial delivery service.
Section 13.1
Section 11(c)
Section 13.2
(d)           Nothing in this shall affect the right of the Administrative Agent to serve process in any manner permitted by Law, or limit any right that the Administrative Agent may have to bring proceedings against such Grantor in the courts of any appropriate jurisdiction or to enforce in any lawful manner a judgment obtained in one jurisdiction in any other jurisdiction.
Section 13.1
(e)           Any payment on account of an amount that is payable hereunder in United States Dollars which is made to or for the account of the Administrative Agent in currency of any other jurisdiction, or in the lawful currency of any other country, whether as a result of any judgment or order or the enforcement thereof or the realization of any security or the liquidation of such party, shall constitute a discharge of such partys obligation under this Agreement only to the extent of the amount of United States Dollars which the Administrative Agent could purchase in the foreign exchange markets with the amount of the currency of such other jurisdiction, or other currency, as the case may be, in accordance with normal banking procedures at the rate of exchange prevailing on the business day following receipt of the payment first referred to above.  If the amount of United States Dollars that could be so purchased is less than the amount of United States Dollars originally due to the Administrative Agent, each Grantor agrees, to the full extent permitted by Law, to indemnify and save harmless such holder from and against all loss or damage arising out of or as a result of such deficiency.  This indemnity shall, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, constitute an obligation separate and independent from the other obligations contained in this Agreement, shall give rise to a separate and independent cause of action, shall apply irrespective of any indulgence granted by the Administrative Agent from time to time and, shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any judgment or order for a liquidated sum in respect of an amount due hereunder or under any judgment or order.
(f)           Each Grantor waives trial by jury in any action brought on or with respect to this Agreement or any other document executed in connection herewith or therewith.
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
          Each Grantor hereby irrevocably designates, appoints and empowers DeVry, and successors as the designee, appointee and agent of such Grantor to receive, accept and acknowledge, for and on behalf of such Grantor and its properties, service of any and all legal process, summons, notices and documents which may be served in such action, suit or proceeding relating to this Agreement in any Federal or New York State court sitting in New York City, which service may be made on any such designee, appointee and agent in accordance with legal procedures prescribed for such courts.  Each Grantor agrees to take any and all action necessary to continue such designation in full force and effect and should such designee, appointee and agent become unavailable for this purpose for any reason, such Grantor will forthwith irrevocably designate a new designee, appointee and agent, which shall irrevocably agree to act as such, with the powers and for purposes specified in this .  Each Grantor further irrevocably consents and agrees to service of any and all legal process, summons, notices and documents out of any of the aforesaid courts in any such action, suit or proceeding relating to this Agreement delivered to such Grantor in accordance with this or to its then designee, appointee or agent for service.  If service is made upon such designee, appointee and agent, a copy of such process, summons, notice or document shall also be provided to such Grantor in accordance with ; provided that failure of such holder to provide such copy to such Grantor shall not impair or affect in any way the validity of such service or any judgment rendered in such action or proceedings.  Each Grantor agrees that service upon such Grantor or any such designee, appointee and agent as provided for herein shall constitute valid and effective personal service upon such Grantor with respect to matters contemplated in this and that the failure of any such designee, appointee and agent to give any notice of such service to such Grantor shall not impair or affect in any way the validity of such service or any judgment rendered in any action or proceeding based thereon.  Nothing herein shall, or shall be construed so as to, limit the right of the Administrative Agent to bring actions, suits or proceedings with respect to the obligations and liabilities of any Grantor under, or any other matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment rendered in any such action, suit or proceeding, in the courts of whatever jurisdiction in which the offices of the Administrative Agent may be located or assets of any Grantor may be found or as otherwise shall to the Administrative Agent seem appropriate, or to affect the right to service of process in any jurisdiction in any other manner permitted by Law.
Section
13
.
2
Service of Process Upon Agent
.
Section 13.2
Section 13.2
Section 11(c)
Section 13.2
 
 
 
15
 
 
, the parties hereto have caused this Pledge Agreement to be duty executed as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
DEVRY INC.
GLOBAL EDUCATION INTERNATIONAL, INC.
DEVRY UNIVERSITY, INC.
ROSS HEALTH SERVICES, INC. (f/k/a Dominica
Management Inc.)
ROSS UNIVERSITY SERVICES, INC.
INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION HOLDINGS, INC.
ROSS UNIVERSITY MANAGEMENT, INC.
CHAMBERLAIN COLLEGE OF NURSING AND
HEALTH SCIENCES, INC.
U.S. EDUCATION CORPORATION
EDCOA, INC.
APOLLO COLLEGE, INC.
By:  ___________________________________________  
Name:
Title:
 
 
 
On this _____ day of ____________, 2011, before me personally appeared _________________. who, being by me duly sworn did depose and say that he/she resides at ________________________; that he/she is ______________ of ____________________, the corporations described in and which executed the above instrument and that he/she executed this instrument on behalf of said corporation and that he/she had authority to do so.
_______________________________________________
NOTARY PUBLIC
 
 
 
 
 
 Accepted and Agreed:
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative
Agent, on behalf of itself and all Banks
under the Credit Agreement
By:  __________________________________
Name:
Title:
On this _____ day of ____________, 2011, before me personally appeared _________________. who, being by me duly sworn did depose and say that he/she resides at ________________________; that he/she is ______________ of ____________________, the corporation described in and which executed the above instrument and that he/she executed this instrument on behalf of said corporation and that he/she had authority to do so.
_______________________________________________
NOTARY PUBLIC
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This PLEDGE AGREEMENT JOINDER dated as of ________, _____ (the or this ) is entered into by the undersigned , a corporation (a ), to amend the definition of Grantor as set forth in Pledge Agreement dated as of May 10, 2011 (the ).  Terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Pledge Agreement.
Joinder
Grantor
Pledge Agreement
A.           The Grantor, is presently a Subsidiary of [DeVry Inc., a Delaware corporation, a Delaware corporation () or [Insert the applicable Designated Borrower] (_______)].
DeVry
B.           Pursuant to the terms of that certain Credit Agreement dated as of May 10, 2011 (as amended, restated, superseded or otherwise modified from time to time, the ) among the Obligors, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, and the banks and other lenders or institutions from time to time party thereto (the ), the Banks are extending credit to the Obligors on the terms provided therein.  The obligations of DeVry under the Credit Agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by certain Subsidiaries of DeVry which are organized under the laws of a jurisdiction within the United States (the ), and the obligations of each Designated Borrower under the Credit Agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by DeVry, by the U.S.  Subsidiaries and by certain direct and indirect Subsidiaries of such Designated Borrower which are organized under the laws of a jurisdiction located outside the United States (the ).  Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
Banks
U.S. Subsidiaries
Offshore Subsidiaries
C.           As a condition to the extension of financial accommodations to be given under the Credit Agreement by the Banks, the Banks required that the Obligors and the other Grantors and the Administrative Agent enter into the Pledge Agreement to secure the obligations of each Grantor in respect of the Financing Agreements, as otherwise more particularly set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency whereof are hereby acknowledged, the Grantor does hereby covenant and agree, as follows:
The Grantor desires to amend the definition of Grantor (as the same may have been heretofore amended) set forth in the Pledge Agreement attached hereto so that at all times from and after the date hereof, the Grantor shall pledge Collateral for the Secured Obligations under the Pledge Agreement to the extent and in the manner set forth therein.  The Grantor does hereby pledges, charges, assigns, transfers and sets over to the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Secured Parties, and hereby pledges, charges, assigns, transfers and grants to the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Secured Parties, a continuing security interest in all of such Grantors interest and property rights, whether now existing or hereafter acquired or arising, in and to the property described on to this Joinder.  [Specify whether DeVry and/or the applicable Designated Borrowers obligations are to be secured.]
Exhibit A
The undersigned is the duly elected ___________________ of the Grantor and is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Joinder.  The execution by the undersigned of this Joinder shall evidence its consent to and acknowledgment and approval of the terms set forth herein and in the Pledge Agreement by such execution the Grantor shall be deemed to have made the representations and warranties set forth in Section 3 of the Pledge Agreement in favor of the Administrative Agent and Secured Parties as of the date of this Joinder.
 
 
 
 
 
Upon execution of this Joinder, the Pledge Agreement shall be deemed to be amended as set forth above.  Except as amended herein, the terms and provisions of the Pledge Agreement are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved in all respects.
[At time of execution this form of Joinder shall be revised and/or shall contain such additional terms or provisions as may be deemed acceptable by the Administrative Agent, provided that such terms and provisions shall apply to all Secured Obligations and all Secured Parties equally and ratably.]
Any and all notices, requests, certificates and other instruments (including the Notes) may refer to the Pledge Agreement without making specific reference to this Joinder, but nevertheless all such references shall be deemed to include this Joinder unless the context shall otherwise require.
[NAME OF GRANTOR}
 
By ___________________________________
       Its ________________________________
 
 
On this _____ day of _______________________, 20____, before me personally appeared ____________________________, who, being by me duly sworn did depose and say that he/she resides at ________________________ that he/she is ____________________ of ________________________, the corporation described in and which executed the above instrument and that he/she executed this instrument on behalf of said corporation and that he/she had authority to do so.
 
 
______________________________________________________                                                
NOTARY PUBLIC
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT H
 
 
 
 
 
 
H-1
 
 
EXHIBIT I
 
 
Date:  ___________, _____
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This Designated Borrower Request is made and delivered pursuant to of that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of May 10, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), DeVry Inc., a Delaware corporation (), the Designated Borrowers from time to time party thereto (and together with DeVry, the ), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender and reference is made thereto for full particulars of the matters described therein.  All capitalized terms used in this Designated Borrower Request and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement.
Section 2.17
Credit Agreement
DeVry
Borrowers
Each of ______________________ (the "") and DeVry hereby confirms, represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that the Designated Borrower is a wholly-owned Offshore Subsidiary of DeVry.
Designated Borrower
The documents required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent under of the Credit Agreement will be furnished to the Administrative Agent in accordance with the requirements of the Credit Agreement.
Section 2.17
The true and correct unique identification number that has been issued to the Designated Borrower by its jurisdiction of organization and the name of such jurisdiction are set forth below:
The parties hereto hereby request that the Designated Borrower be entitled to receive Loans and to have Letters of Credit issued for its account under the Credit Agreement, and understand, acknowledge and agree that neither the Designated Borrower nor DeVry on its behalf shall have any right to request any Loans or Letters of Credit for its account unless and until the date five Business Days after the effective date designated by the Administrative Agent in a Designated Borrower Joinder Agreement delivered to DeVry and the Lenders pursuant to of the Credit Agreement.
Section 2.17
This Designated Borrower Request shall constitute a Loan Document under the Credit Agreement.
THIS DESIGNATED BORROWER REQUEST SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
 
 
I-1
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Designated Borrower Request to be duly executed and delivered by their proper and duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
[DESIGNATED BORROWER]
By: _________________________________ 
Name:
Title:
 
 
DEVRY INC.,
a Delaware corporation
By: _________________________________
Name:
Title:
 
I-2
 
 
EXHIBIT J
 
 
Date:  ___________, _____
 
To:           DeVry Inc.
The Lenders party to the Credit Agreement referred to below
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This Designated Borrower Joinder Agreement is executed and delivered pursuant to of that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of May 10, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among DeVry Inc., a Delaware corporation (), the Designated Borrowers from time to time party thereto (and together with DeVry, the ), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender and reference is made thereto for full particulars of the matters described therein.  All capitalized terms used in this Designated Borrower Joinder Agreement and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement.
Section 2.17
Credit Agreement
DeVry
Borrowers
The parties hereto hereby confirm that from and after the date hereof, (the "") shall have obligations, duties and liabilities toward each of the other parties to the Credit Agreement identical to those which the Designated Borrower would have had if the Designated Borrower had been an original party to the Credit Agreement as a Borrower.  The Designated Borrower confirms its acceptance of, and consents to, all representations and warranties, covenants, and other terms and provisions of the Credit Agreement.
[Name of Designated Borrower]
Designated Borrower
Effective as of the date hereof shall be a Designated Borrower and be permitted to receive Loans and Letters of Credit for its account on the terms and conditions set forth in the Credit Agreement [and herein]; .
[Name of Designated Borrower]
1
and shall otherwise be a Borrower for all purposes of the Credit Agreement
provided
that no Revolving Loan Notice or Letter of Credit Application may be submitted by or on behalf of such Designated Borrower until the date five Business Days after such effective date
The additional terms and conditions applicable to extensions of credit to the Designated Borrower shall be:
[Insert applicable terms and conditions.]
This Designated Borrower Joinder Agreement shall constitute a Loan Document under the Credit Agreement.
 
 
____________________________
 
Include bracketed language if additional terms and conditions apply.
1
 
 
 
J-1
 
 
,
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
as Administrative Agent
By: _________________________________
Title:________________________________
 
 
[DESIGNATED BORROWER]
 
 
By: _________________________________
Name:
Title:
 
 
DEVRY INC.,
a Delaware corporation
 
By: _________________________________
Name:
Title:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
J-2
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 4.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachments to U.S. Subsidiary Guaranty:
                      Form of Guaranty Joinder
EXHIBIT A
 
 
 
 
 
 
This U.S. dated as of May [10], 2011 (as amended, restated, supplemented, extended or otherwise modified from time to time, this ) is entered into on a joint and several basis by each of the undersigned (which parties are hereinafter referred to individually as a  and collectively as the ).
Subsidiary Guaranty
Guaranty
Guarantor
Guarantors
A.           Reference is made to the Credit Agreement dated as of May [10], 2011 (as amended, restated, supplemented, extended, refinanced or otherwise modified from time to time, the ) among DeVry Inc., a Delaware corporation (), the Designated Borrowers party thereto (the  and, together with DeVry, the ), the lenders party thereto (the ), and Bank of America, N.A. as administrative agent (the ) providing for, among other things, up to $450 million in loans and letters of credit.
Credit Agreement
DeVry
Designated Borrowers
Borrowers
Lenders
Administrative Agent
B.           Each Guarantor is a direct or indirect U.S. Subsidiary of DeVry.
C.           The Credit Extensions under the Credit Agreement have benefited and will continue to benefit the Borrowers and their Subsidiaries by, among other things, providing funds to enable the Borrowers to finance working capital and capital expenditures, support the issuance of standby letters of credit, make Restricted Payments to the extent permitted in of the Credit Agreement, and for other general corporate purposes.
Section 7.6
D.           Each of the undersigned, and each Person that hereafter becomes obligated pursuant to Section 6.12 of the Credit Agreement to execute a Guaranty Joinder in substantially the form set forth as Exhibit A hereto (a ), is willing to enter into this Guaranty as security for the Obligations under the Credit Agreement.
Guaranty Joinder
, as required by the Credit Agreement and in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, each Guarantor does hereby covenant and agree, jointly and severally, as follows:
Now, Therefore
Section 1.                      Definitions
Capitalized terms used herein but not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement or as the context shall otherwise require.
Section 2.                      Guaranty of Obligations and Credit Agreement
(a)           Subject to the limitations set forth in Section 2(b) hereof, each Guarantor jointly and severally does hereby irrevocably, absolutely and unconditionally guarantee unto the Administrative Agent and the Secured Parties: (1) the full and prompt payment of all Obligations including, without limitation, all principal of and interest under, all Loans (whether Base Rate Loans, Eurocurrency Rate Loans or Swing Line Loans), all L/C Obligations, all L/C Borrowings, all obligations under Specified Swap Contracts and all fees, expenses and other amounts, if any, from time to time outstanding, as and when such payments shall become due and payable, whether by lapse of time, upon redemption or prepayment, by extension or by acceleration or declaration or otherwise (including, to the extent legally enforceable, interest due on overdue payments of principal) in federal or other immediately available funds of the United States of America which at the time of payment or demand therefor shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, (2) the full and prompt performance and observance
 
 
 
 
 
by the Borrowers of each and all of the obligations, covenants and agreements required to be performed or owed by the Borrowers under the terms of the Loan Documents and the Specified Swap Contracts (collectively with the Loan Documents, the ), and (3) the full and prompt payment, upon demand by the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties, of all costs and expenses, legal or otherwise (including reasonable attorneys fees), if any, as shall have been expended or incurred in the protection or enforcement of any rights, privileges or liabilities in favor of the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party under or in respect of any Loan Document or in any action in connection therewith or herewith and in each and every case irrespective of the validity, regularity, or enforcement of any of the Loan Documents or any of the terms thereof or any other like circumstance or circumstances (the payment, performance and observance of all such Obligations, covenants and agreements being herein collectively called the ).
Financing Documents
Guaranteed Obligations
(b)           The liability of each Guarantor under this Guaranty shall not exceed an amount equal to a maximum amount as will, after giving effect to such maximum amount and all other liabilities of such Guarantor, contingent or otherwise, be enforceable under applicable Law and result in the performance of the obligations of such Guarantor hereunder and not constitute a fraudulent transfer, obligation or conveyance.
(c)           All amounts payable under this Guaranty by each Guarantor shall be made in Dollars.
Section 3.                      Guaranty of Payment and Performance
This is a guarantee of payment and performance and each Guarantor hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, any right to require that any action on or in respect of any Obligation or any Financing Document be brought against the Borrowers or any other Person or that resort be had to any direct or indirect security for the Guaranteed Obligations or any Financing Document or any other remedy.  The Administrative Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties may, at its option, proceed hereunder against any Guarantor in the first instance to collect monies when due, the payment of which is guaranteed hereby, without first proceeding against the Borrowers or any other Person and without first resorting to any direct or indirect security for the Guaranteed Obligations or any Financing Document or any other remedy.  The liability of each Guarantor hereunder shall in no way be affected or impaired by any acceptance by the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party of any direct or indirect security for, or other guaranties of, any debt, liability or obligation of the Borrowers or any other Person to the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party or by any failure, delay, neglect or omission by the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party to realize upon or protect any such guarantees, debt, liability or obligation or any instruments evidencing the same or any direct or indirect security therefor or by any approval, consent, waiver, or other action taken, or omitted to be taken by the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party.
The covenants and agreements on the part of the Guarantors herein contained shall be joint and several covenants and agreements, and references to the Guarantors shall be deemed references to each of them and none of them shall be released from liability hereunder by reason of this Guaranty ceasing to be binding as a continuing security on any other of them.
Section 4.                      General Provisions Relating to the Guaranty
(a)           Each Guarantor hereby consents and agrees that the Administrative Agent and/or any Secured Party from time to time, with or without any further notice to or assent from any other Guarantor may, without in any manner affecting the liability of any Guarantor under this Guaranty, and upon such terms and conditions as the Administrative Agent or such Secured Party may deem advisable:
 
 
2
 
 
(1)           extend in whole or in part (by renewal or otherwise), modify, increase, change, compromise, release or extend the duration of the time for the performance or payment of any debt, liability or obligation of the Borrowers or of any other Person secondarily or otherwise liable for any debt, liability or obligations of the Borrowers on the Guaranteed Obligations or under any Financing Document, or waive any Default or Event of Default with respect thereto, or waive, modify, amend or change any provision of any Financing Document;
(2)           sell, release, surrender, modify, impair, exchange or substitute any and all property, of any nature and from whomsoever received, held by, or for the benefit of, the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party as direct or indirect security for the payment or performance of any debt, liability or obligation of the Borrowers or of any other Person secondarily or otherwise liable for any debt, liability or obligation of the Borrowers under any Financing Document; and/or
(3)           settle, adjust or compromise any claim of the Borrowers against any other Person secondarily or otherwise liable for any debt, liability or obligation of the Borrowers under any Financing Document.
Each Guarantor hereby ratifies and confirms any such extension, renewal, change, sale, release, waiver, surrender, exchange, modification, amendment, impairment, substitution, settlement, adjustment or compromise and agrees that the same shall be binding upon it, and hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, any and all defenses, counterclaims or offsets which it might or could have by reason thereof, it being understood that such Guarantor shall at all times be bound by this Guaranty and remain liable hereunder.
(b)           Each Guarantor hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by Law:
(1)              notice of acceptance of this Guaranty by the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties or of the creation, renewal or accrual of any liability of the Borrowers, present or future, or of the reliance of the Administrative Agent or any of the Secured Parties upon this Guaranty (it being understood that all Guaranteed Obligations described in Section 2 hereof shall conclusively be presumed to have been created, contracted or incurred in reliance upon the execution of this Guaranty); and
(2)              demand of payment by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties from the Borrowers or any other Person indebted in any manner on or for any of the Guaranteed Obligations; and
(3)              presentment for the payment by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties or any other Person of any Financing Document or any other instrument, protest thereof and notice of its dishonor to any party thereto and to such Guarantor.
The obligations of each Guarantor under this Guaranty and the rights of the Administrative Agent to enforce such obligations by any proceedings, whether by action at law, suit in equity or otherwise, shall not be subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment or termination, whether by reason of any claim of any character whatsoever or otherwise and shall not be subject to any defense, set-off, counterclaim (other than any compulsory counterclaim), recoupment or termination whatsoever.
 
 
3
 
 
(c)           The obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall be binding upon such Guarantor and its successors and assigns, and shall remain in full force and effect until the date on which all Commitments of the Lenders shall have terminated, all Letters of Credit shall have expired or terminated and all Obligations have indefeasibly been paid in full (the ) and such obligations shall not be affected, modified or impaired upon the happening from time to time of any event, including, without limitation, any of the following, whether or not with notice to or the consent of any Guarantor:
Termination Date
(1)              the genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of any of the Financing Documents or any of the terms of any thereof, the continuance of any obligation on the part of the Borrowers or any other Guarantor on or in respect of or under any Financing Document or the power or authority or the lack of power or authority of the Borrowers to execute and deliver any Financing Document or of any other Guarantor to execute and deliver this Guaranty or to perform any of its obligations hereunder or the existence or continuance of the Borrowers or any other Guarantor as a legal entity; or
(2)              any default, failure or delay, willful or otherwise, in the performance by the Borrowers or any other Guarantor of any obligations of any kind or character whatsoever under any Financing Document; or
(3)              any creditors rights, bankruptcy, receivership or other insolvency proceeding of the Borrowers or any other Guarantor or in respect of the property of the Borrowers or any other Guarantor or any merger, consolidation, reorganization, dissolution, liquidation, the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of or winding up of the Borrowers or any other Guarantor; or
(4)              impossibility or illegality of performance on the part of the Borrowers or any other Guarantor of its obligations under any Financing Document; or
(5)              in respect of the Borrowers or any other Guarantor, any change of circumstances, whether or not foreseen or foreseeable, whether or not imputable to the Borrowers or any other Guarantor, or other impossibility of performance through fire, explosion, accident, labor disturbance, floods, droughts, embargoes, wars (whether or not declared), civil commotion, acts of God or the public enemy, delays or failure of suppliers or carriers, inability to obtain materials, action of any federal or state regulatory body or agency, change of Law or any other causes affecting performance, or any other force majeure, whether or not beyond the control of the Borrowers or any other Guarantor and whether or not of the kind hereinbefore specified; or
(6)              any attachment, claim, demand, charge, Lien, order, process, lien or any other happening or event or reason, similar or dissimilar to the foregoing, or any withholding or diminution at the source, by reason of any taxes, assessments, expenses, debt, obligations or liabilities of any character, foreseen or unforeseen, and whether or not valid, incurred by or against the Borrowers or any Guarantor or any claims, demands, charges or Liens of any nature, foreseen or unforeseen, incurred by any Guarantor, or against any sums payable in respect of or under any Financing Document, so that such sums would be rendered inadequate or would be unavailable to make the payments herein provided; or
(7)              any order, judgment, decree, ruling or regulation (whether or not valid) of any court of any nation or of any political subdivision thereof or any body, agency, department, official or administrative or regulatory agency of any thereof or any other action, happening, event or reason whatsoever which shall delay, interfere with, hinder or prevent, or in any way adversely affect, the performance by the Borrowers or any other Guarantor of its respective obligations under or in respect of any Financing Document; or
(8)              the failure of any other Guarantor to receive any benefit from or as a result of its execution, delivery and performance of this Guaranty; or
 
 
4
 
 
(9)              any failure or lack of diligence in collection or protection, failure in presentment or demand for payment, protest, notice of protest, notice of default and of nonpayment, any failure to give notice to any other Guarantor of failure of the Borrowers or any other Guarantor to keep and perform any obligation, covenant or agreement under the terms of any Financing Document, or this Guaranty or failure to resort for payment to the Borrowers or any other Guarantor or to any other guaranty or to any property, security, Liens or other rights or remedies; or
(10)              the acceptance of any additional security or other guaranty, the advance of additional money to the Borrowers or any other Guarantor, amendments, modifications, consents or waivers with respect to any Financing Document, or the sale, release, substitution or exchange of any security for any Guaranteed Obligation; or
(11)              any change in the ownership of any shares of the Borrowers or any Guarantor; or
(12)              any defense whatsoever that:  (i) the Borrowers or any other Guarantor might have to the payment under any Financing Document, other than payment thereof in Federal or other immediately available funds, or (ii) the Borrowers or any other Guarantor might have to the performance or observance of any of the provisions of any Financing Document, whether through the satisfaction or purported satisfaction by the Borrowers or any other Guarantor of its debts due to any cause such as bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership, merger, consolidation, reorganization, dissolution, liquidation, winding-up or otherwise; or
(13)              any act or failure to act with regard to any Financing Document or anything which might vary the risk of any Guarantor; or
(14)              any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, any Guarantor in respect of the obligations of any Guarantor under this Guaranty;
that the specific enumeration of the above-mentioned acts, failures or omissions shall not be deemed to exclude any other acts, failures or omissions, though not specifically mentioned above, it being the purpose and intent of this Guaranty that the obligations of each Guarantor shall be absolute, irrevocable and unconditional and shall not be discharged, impaired or varied except by the payment of all Obligations in accordance with their respective terms whenever the same shall become due and payable and all other sums due and payable under any Financing Document, at the place specified in and all in the manner and with the effect provided in the Credit Agreement.  Without limiting the foregoing, it is understood that repeated and successive demands may be made and recoveries may be had hereunder as and when, from time to time, the Borrowers shall default under or in respect of the terms of any Financing Document and that notwithstanding recovery hereunder for or in respect of any given default or defaults by the Borrowers under any Financing Document shall remain in full force and effect and shall apply to each and every subsequent default.
provided
(d)           All rights of the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party hereunder may be transferred or assigned at any time and shall be considered to be transferred or assigned at any time or from time to time upon the appointment of a successor to the Administrative Agent or any permitted transfer by a Lender of its rights under the Credit Agreement, whether with or without the consent of or notice to the Guarantors under this Guaranty or to the Borrowers.
 
 
5
 
 
(e)           To the extent of any payments made under this Guaranty, each Guarantor shall be subrogated to the rights of the Administrative Agent and/or the Secured Parties to whom such payment was made, but such Guarantor covenants and agrees that such right of subrogation shall be subordinate in right of payment to the prior indefeasible final payment in cash in full of all amounts due and owing by the Borrowers with respect to the Obligations under the Financing Documents and by the Guarantors under this Guaranty, and the Guarantors shall not take any action to enforce such right of subrogation, and the Guarantors shall not accept any payment in respect of such right of subrogation, until the Termination Date.  If any amount shall be paid to any Guarantor in violation of the preceding sentence at any time prior to the indefeasible payment in cash in full of all amounts payable under the Financing Documents and this Guaranty, such amount shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Secured Parties and shall forthwith be paid to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Secured Parties to be credited and applied to the amounts due or to become due with respect to all amounts payable under the Financing Documents and this Guaranty, whether matured or unmatured.  Each Guarantor acknowledges that it has received direct and indirect benefits from the financing arrangements contemplated by the Financing Documents and that the waiver set forth in this paragraph (e) is knowingly made as a result of the receipt of such benefits.
(f)           Each Guarantor agrees that, to the extent either Borrower, any other Guarantor or any other Person makes any payment under any of the Financing Documents, which payment or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, voided, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside, recovered, rescinded or is required to be retained by or repaid to a trustee, receiver, or any other Person under any bankruptcy code, common law, or equitable cause, then and to the extent of such payment, the obligation or the part thereof intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect with respect to the Guarantors obligations hereunder, as if said payment had not been made.  The liability of the Guarantors hereunder shall not be reduced or discharged, in whole or in part, by any payment to the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party from any source that is thereafter paid, returned or refunded in whole or in part by reason of the assertion of a claim of any kind relating thereto, including, but not limited to, any claim for breach of contract, breach of warranty, preference, illegality, invalidity, or fraud asserted by any account debtor or by any other Person.
(g)           Neither the Administrative Agent nor any Secured Party, shall be under any obligation:  (1) to marshal any assets in favor of the Guarantors or in payment of any or all of the liabilities of the Borrowers under or in respect of the Financing Documents or the obligations of the Guarantors hereunder or (2) to pursue any other remedy that the Guarantors may or may not be able to pursue themselves and that may lighten the Guarantors burden, any right to which each Guarantor hereby expressly waives.
(h)           The obligations of each Guarantor under this Guaranty rank in right of payment with all other Indebtedness of such Guarantor which is not secured or which is not expressly subordinated in right of payment to any other Indebtedness of such Guarantor.
pari passu
Section 5.                      Representations and Warranties of the Guarantors
Each Guarantor represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and each Secured Party that:
(a)           Such Guarantor is a corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership or other legal entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership or other similar legal entity and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required by Law, other than those jurisdictions as to which the failure to be so qualified or in good standing could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on (1) the ability of such Guarantor to perform its obligations under this Guaranty, or (2) the
 
 
6
 
 
validity or enforceability of this Guaranty against such Guarantor (herein in this , a ).  Such Guarantor has the power and authority to own or hold under lease the properties it purports to own or hold under lease, to transact the business it transacts and proposes to transact, to execute and deliver this Guaranty and to perform the provisions hereof.
Section 5
Material Adverse Effect
(b)           This Guaranty has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action on the part of such Guarantor, and this Guaranty constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Guarantor enforceable against such Guarantor in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by (1) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or conveyance or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally and (2) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at Law).
(c)           The execution, delivery and performance by such Guarantor of this Guaranty will not (1) contravene, result in any breach of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation of any Lien in respect of any property of such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries under its charter documents, or except for contraventions, breaches or defaults which could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, under any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan, purchase or credit agreement, lease, or any other agreement or instrument to which such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries is bound or by which such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties may be bound or affected, (2) conflict with or result in a breach of any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any order, judgment, decree, or ruling of any court, arbitrator or Governmental Authority applicable to such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries or (3) violate any provision of any statute or other rule or regulation of any Governmental Authority applicable to the such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries.
(d)           No consent, approval or authorization of, or registration, filing or declaration with, any Governmental Authority is required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by such Guarantor of this Guaranty.
(e)           Except in the case of DeVry Canada, LLC, such Guarantor is solvent, has capital not unreasonably small in relation to its business or any contemplated or undertaken transaction and has assets having a value both at fair valuation and at present fair salable value greater than the amount required to pay its debts as they become due and greater than the amount that will be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts as they become absolute and matured.  Such Guarantor does not intend to incur, or believe that it will incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they become due.  Such Guarantor will not be rendered insolvent by the execution and delivery of, and performance of its obligations under, this Guaranty.  Such Guarantor does not intend to hinder, delay or defraud its creditors by or through the execution and delivery of, or performance of its obligations under, this Guaranty.
(f)           All representations in the Credit Agreement applicable to such Guarantors (or any of them) are true and correct in all material respects.
Section 6.                      Amendments, Waivers and Consents
This Guaranty may be amended, and the observance of any term hereof may be waived (either retroactively or prospectively), pursuant to the provisions of of the Credit Agreement.  This Guaranty may be amended by the addition of additional Guarantors pursuant to a Guaranty Joinder.
Section 11.1
 
 
7
 
 
Section 7.                      Submission to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial
                  .  (a) Each Guarantor irrevocably submits to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any State of New York or federal court sitting in New York City, over any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Guaranty.  To the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable Law, each Guarantor irrevocably waives and agrees not to assert, by way of motion, as a defense or otherwise, any claim that it is not subject to the jurisdiction of any such court, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court and any claim that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
Section 7.1.
Consent to Jurisdiction; Service of Process; Waiver of Jury Trial
in personam
in personam
(b)           Each Guarantor agrees, to the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable Law, that a final judgment in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in paragraph (a) of this brought in any such court shall be conclusive and binding upon such party, subject to rights of appeal and may be enforced in the courts of the United States of America or the State of New York (or any other courts to the jurisdiction of which such party is or may be subject) by a suit upon such judgment.
Section 7.1
(c)           Each Guarantor consents to process being served in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in paragraph (a) of this by mailing a copy thereof by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the address of such Guarantor specified in or at such other address of which you shall then have been notified pursuant to said Section or to any agent for service of process appointed pursuant to the provisions of .  Each Guarantor agrees that such service upon receipt (i) shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process upon it in any such suit, action or proceeding and (ii) shall, to the full extent permitted by Law, be taken and held to be valid personal service upon and personal delivery to such party.  Notices hereunder shall be conclusively presumed received as evidenced by a delivery receipt furnished by the United States Postal Service or any reputable commercial delivery service.
Section 7.1
Section 8
Section 7.2
(d)           Nothing in this shall affect the right of the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties to serve process in any manner permitted by Law, or limit any right that the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties may have to bring proceedings against any Guarantor in the courts of any appropriate jurisdiction or to enforce in any lawful manner a judgment obtained in one jurisdiction in any other jurisdiction.
Section 7.1
(e)           Each Guarantor waives trial by jury in any action brought on or with respect to this Guaranty or the Financing Documents or any other document executed in connection herewith or therewith.
                  .  Each Guarantor hereby irrevocably designates, appoints and empowers DeVry and its successors as the designee, appointee and agent for each Guarantor to receive, accept and acknowledge, for and on behalf of such Guarantor and its properties, service of any and all legal process, summons, notices and documents which may be served in such action, suit or proceeding relating to this Guaranty in the case of the New York federal and state courts located in New York City, which service may be made on any such designee, appointee and agent in accordance with legal procedures prescribed for such courts.  Each Guarantor agrees to take any and all action necessary to continue such designation in full force and effect and should such designee, appointee and agent become unavailable for this purpose for any reason, each Guarantor will forthwith irrevocably designate a new designee, appointee and agent, which shall irrevocably agree to act as such, with the powers and for purposes specified in this .  Each Guarantor further irrevocably consents and
Section 7.2.
Service of Process Upon Guarantors
Section 7.2
 
 
8
 
 
agrees to service of any and all legal process, summons, notices and documents out of any of the aforesaid courts in any such action, suit or proceeding relating to any Financing Document or this Guaranty delivered to such Guarantor in accordance with this or to its then designee, appointee or agent for service.  If service is made upon such designee, appointee and agent, a copy of such process, summons, notice or document shall also be provided to any Guarantor at the address specified in by registered or certified mail, or overnight express air courier; that failure of such Secured Party to provide such copy to such Guarantor shall not impair or affect in any way the validity of such service or any judgment rendered in such action or proceedings.  Each Guarantor agrees that service upon such Guarantor or any such designee, appointee and agent as provided for herein shall constitute valid and effective personal service upon such Guarantor with respect to matters contemplated in this and that the failure of any such designee, appointee and agent to give any notice of such service to such Guarantor shall not impair or affect in any way the validity of such service or any judgment rendered in any action or proceeding based thereon.  Nothing herein shall, or shall be construed so as to, limit the right of the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties to bring actions, suits or proceedings with respect to the obligations and liabilities of any Guarantor under, or any other matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment rendered in any such action, suit or proceeding, in the courts of whatever jurisdiction in which the respective offices of the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties may be located or assets of such Guarantor may be found or as otherwise shall to Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties seem appropriate, or to affect the right to service of process in any jurisdiction in any other manner permitted by Law.
Section 7.2
Section 8
provided
Section 7.2
Section 8.                      Notices
All notices and communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing and sent (a) by facsimile if the sender on the same day sends a confirming copy of such notice by a recognized overnight delivery service (charges prepaid), or (b) by a recognized overnight delivery service (with charges prepaid).  Any such notice must be sent:
(1)           if to the Administrative Agent, to such address as listed in of the Credit Agreement, or
Schedule 11.2
(2)           if to any Guarantor, to such Guarantor c/o the Borrowers at One Tower Lane, Oakbrook Terrace, IL 60181, or at such other address as such Guarantor shall have specified to the Administrative Agent in writing.
Notices under this will be deemed given only when actually received.
Section 8
Section 9.                      Miscellaneous
(a)           No remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party is intended to be exclusive of any other available remedy or remedies, but each and every such remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy given under this Guaranty now or hereafter existing at Law or in equity.  No delay or omission to exercise any right or power accruing upon any default, omission or failure of performance hereunder shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver thereof but any such right or power may be exercised from time to time and as often as may be deemed expedient.  In order to entitle the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party to exercise any remedy reserved to it under the Guaranty, it shall not be necessary for such Administrative Agent or Secured Party to physically produce the Financing Documents in any proceedings instituted by it or to give any notice, other than such notice as may be herein expressly required.
 
 
9
 
 
(b)           The Guarantors will pay all sums becoming due under this Guaranty by the method and at the address specified for such purpose in the Credit Agreement, or by such other reasonable method or at such other address as the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties shall have from time to time specified to the Guarantors in writing for such purpose, without the presentation or surrender of this Guaranty or any Financing Documents.
(c)           Any provision of this Guaranty that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall (to the full extent permitted by Law) not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
(d)           If the whole or any part of this Guaranty shall be now or hereafter become unenforceable against any one or more of the Guarantors for any reason whatsoever or if it is not executed by any one or more of the Guarantors, this Guaranty shall nevertheless be and remain fully binding upon and enforceable against each other Guarantor as if it had been made and delivered only by such other Guarantors.
(e)           This Guaranty shall be binding upon each Guarantor and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the Administrative Agent and each Secured Party and its successors and assigns whether so expressed or not, until the Termination Date.
(f)           This Guaranty may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original but all of which together shall constitute one instrument.  Each counterpart may consist of a number of copies hereof, each signed by less than all, but together signed by all, of the parties hereto.  Delivery of executed counterparts of this Agreement by facsimile or other electronic means shall be effective as an original.
(g)           This Guaranty shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and the rights of the parties shall be governed by the Law of the State of New York.
(h)           The Recitals are incorporated into this Guaranty by reference with the same force and effect as though set forth herein in full.
(i)           The Administrative Agent is authorized to enforce this Guaranty on behalf of the Secured Parties.
 
 
 
10
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has caused this U.S. Subsidiary Guaranty to be duly executed by an authorized representative as of this ____ day of May, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
This dated as of _________, _____ (the or this ) is entered into [on a joint and several basis] by [each of] the undersigned __________, a ____________ corporation ( an  ).  Terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Credit Agreement hereinafter referred to.
Guaranty Joinder
Guaranty Joinder
[and
____________
, a
___________
corporation]
[which parties are hereinafter referred to individually as]
Additional Guarantor
[and collectively as the 
Additional Guarantors
]
A.            Additional Guarantor, is presently a U.S. Subsidiary of DeVry Inc., a Delaware corporation, a Delaware corporation ().
[Each]
DeVry
B.           Reference is made to the Credit Agreement dated as of May [10], 2011 (as amended, restated, supplemented, extended, refinanced or otherwise modified from time to time, the ) among DeVry Inc., a Delaware corporation (), the Designated Borrowers party thereto (the  and, together with DeVry, the ), the lenders party thereto (the ), and Bank of America, N.A. as administrative agent (the ) providing for, among other things, up to $450 million in loans.
Credit Agreement
DeVry
Designated Borrowers
Borrowers
Lenders
Administrative Agent
            Additional Guarantor is required by Section 6.12 of the Credit Agreement to enter into the U.S. Subsidiary Guaranty dated as of May [10], 2011 (as amended, restated, supplemented, extended or otherwise modified , the ) as security for the Obligations.
C
.
[Each]
Guaranty
NOW, THEREFORE, as required by the Credit Agreement and in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency whereof are hereby acknowledged, Additional Guarantor does hereby covenant and agree, as follows:
[each/the]
[jointly and severally,]
In accordance with the requirements of the Guaranty, the Additional Guarantor[s] desire to amend the definition of Guarantor (as the same may have been heretofore amended) set forth in the Guaranty attached hereto so that at all times from and after the date hereof, the Additional Guarantor shall be jointly and severally liable as Guarantors as set forth in the Guaranty for the Guaranteed Obligations of the Borrowers under the Credit Agreement to the extent and in the manner set forth in the Guaranty.
[s]
The undersigned is the duly elected ____________ of the Additional Guarantor and is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Guaranty Joinder for the benefit of all Secured Parties.  The execution by the undersigned of this Guaranty Joinder shall evidence its consent to and acknowledgment and approval of the terms set forth herein and in the Guaranty.  By its execution hereof, the Additional Guarantor shall be deemed to have made the representations and warranties set forth in Section 5 of the Guaranty in favor of the Secured Parties as of the date of this Guaranty Joinder.
[s]
[s]
Upon execution of this Guaranty Joinder, the Guaranty shall be deemed to be amended as set forth above.  The Additional Guarantor[s] hereby become[s] a Guarantor under the Guaranty and as a Guarantor thereunder, hereby Guarantees all Guaranteed Obligations.  Except as amended herein, the terms and provisions of the Guaranty are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved in all respects.
Any and all notices, requests, certificates and other instruments may refer to the Guaranty without making specific reference to this Guaranty Joinder, but nevertheless all such references shall be deemed to include this Guaranty Joinder unless the context shall otherwise require.
 
 
 
13
 
 
[NAME OF ADDITIONAL GUARANTOR]
By:  ____________________________________ 
 
Its:  _____________________________
 
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 4.5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A                      Form of Guaranty Joinder
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OFFSHORE SUBSIDIARY GUARANTY
This dated as of May 10, 2011 (as amended, restated, supplemented, extended or otherwise modified from time to time, this ) is entered into on a joint and several basis by each of the undersigned (which parties are hereinafter referred to individually as a  and collectively as the ).
Offshore Subsidiary Guaranty
Guaranty
Guarantor
Guarantors
A.           Reference is made to the Credit Agreement dated as of May 10, 2011 (as amended, restated, supplemented, extended, refinanced or otherwise modified from time to time, the ) among DeVry Inc., a Delaware corporation (), the Designated Borrowers party thereto (the  and, together with DeVry, the ), the lenders party thereto (the ), and Bank of America, N.A. as administrative agent (the ) providing for, among other things, up to $450 million in loans and letters of credit.
Credit Agreement
DeVry
Designated Borrowers
Borrowers
Lenders
Administrative Agent
A.           Each Guarantor is either (i) a direct or indirect Offshore Subsidiary of, or (ii) a direct or indirect parent of Global Education International, Inc., a Barbados corporation (the ).
Guaranteed Borrower
B.           The Credit Extensions under the Credit Agreement have benefited and will continue to benefit the Borrowers and their Subsidiaries by, among other things, providing funds to enable the Borrowers to finance working capital and capital expenditures, support the issuance of standby letters of credit, make Restricted Payments to the extent permitted in of the Credit Agreement, and for other general corporate purposes.
Section 7.6
C.           Each of the undersigned, and each Person which hereafter becomes obligated pursuant to Section 6.12 of the Credit Agreement to execute a Guaranty Joinder in substantially the form set forth as Exhibit A hereto (a ), is willing to enter into this Guaranty as security for the Obligations of the Guaranteed Borrower under the Credit Agreement.
Guaranty Joinder
NOW, THEREFORE, as required by the Credit Agreement and in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, each Guarantor does hereby covenant and agree, jointly and severally, as follows:
Section 1.                      Definitions
Capitalized terms used herein but not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement or as the context shall otherwise require.
Section 2.                      Guaranty of Obligations and Credit Agreement
(a)           Subject to the limitations set forth in hereof, each Guarantor jointly and severally does hereby irrevocably, absolutely and unconditionally guarantee unto the Administrative Agent and the Secured Parties:  (1) the full and prompt payment of all Obligations of the Guaranteed Borrower including, without limitation, all principal of and interest under, all Loans (whether Base Rate Loans or Eurocurrency Rate Loans) made to the Guaranteed Borrower, all L/C Obligations of the Guaranteed Borrower, all L/C Borrowings of the Guaranteed Borrower, all obligations under Specified Swap Contracts of the Guaranteed Borrower or its Subsidiaries and all fees, expenses and other amounts for which the Guaranteed Borrower is liable, if any, from time to time outstanding, as and when such
Section 2(b)
 
 
 
 
 
payments shall become due and payable, whether by lapse of time, upon redemption or prepayment, by extension or by acceleration or declaration or otherwise (including, to the extent legally enforceable, interest due on overdue payments of principal) in federal or other immediately available funds of the United States of America which at the time of payment or demand therefor shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, (2) the full and prompt performance and observance by the Guaranteed Borrower of each and all of the obligations, covenants and agreements required to be performed or owed by the Guaranteed Borrower under the terms of the Loan Documents or the Specified Swap Contracts of the Guaranteed Borrower and its Subsidiaries (collectively with the Loan Documents, the ), and (3) the full and prompt payment, upon demand by the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties, of all costs and expenses, legal or otherwise (including reasonable attorneys fees), if any, as shall have been expended or incurred in the protection or enforcement of any rights, privileges or liabilities in favor of the Administrative Agent or any Lender under or in respect of the Guaranteed Borrower's Obligations under any Loan Document to which the Guaranteed Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or in any action in connection therewith or herewith and in each and every case irrespective of the validity, regularity, or enforcement of any of the Loan Documents or any of the terms thereof or any other like circumstance or circumstances (the payment, performance and observance of all such Obligations, covenants and agreements being herein collectively called the ).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein or in the other Financing Document, no Guarantor hereunder shall be liable hereunder for any Obligations of DeVry or any Obligations of any Designated Borrower other than the Guaranteed Borrower.
Financing Documents
Guaranteed Obligations
(b)           The liability of each Guarantor under this Guaranty shall not exceed an amount equal to a maximum amount as will, after giving effect to such maximum amount and all other liabilities of such Guarantor, contingent or otherwise, be enforceable under applicable Law and result in the performance of the obligations of such Guarantor hereunder and not constitute a fraudulent transfer, obligation or conveyance.
(c)           All amounts payable under this Guaranty by each Guarantor shall be made in Dollars.
Section 3.                      Guaranty of Payment and Performance
This is a guarantee of payment and performance and each Guarantor hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, any right to require that any action on or in respect of any Obligation or any Financing Document be brought against the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Person or that resort be had to any direct or indirect security for the Guaranteed Obligations or any Financing Document or any other remedy.  The Administrative Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties may, at its option, proceed hereunder against any Guarantor in the first instance to collect monies when due, the payment of which is guaranteed hereby, without first proceeding against the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Person and without first resorting to any direct or indirect security for the Guaranteed Obligations or any Financing Document or any other remedy.  The liability of each Guarantor hereunder shall in no way be affected or impaired by any acceptance by the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party of any direct or indirect security for, or other guaranties of, any debt, liability or obligation of the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Person to the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party or by any failure, delay, neglect or omission by the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party to realize upon or protect any such guarantees, debt, liability or obligation or any instruments evidencing the same or any direct or indirect security therefor or by any approval, consent, waiver, or other action taken, or omitted to be taken by the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party.
The covenants and agreements on the part of the Guarantors herein contained shall be joint and several covenants and agreements, and references to the Guarantors shall be deemed references to each of them and none of them shall be released from liability hereunder by reason of this Guaranty ceasing to be binding as a continuing security on any other of them.
 
 
2
 
 
Section 4.                      General Provisions Relating to the Guaranty
(a)           Each Guarantor hereby consents and agrees that the Administrative Agent and/or any Secured Party from time to time, with or without any further notice to or assent from any other Guarantor may, without in any manner affecting the liability of any Guarantor under this Guaranty, and upon such terms and conditions as the Administrative Agent or such Secured Party may deem advisable:
(1)           extend in whole or in part (by renewal or otherwise), modify, increase, change, compromise, release or extend the duration of the time for the performance or payment of any debt, liability or obligation of the Guaranteed Borrower or of any other Person secondarily or otherwise liable for any debt, liability or obligations of the Guaranteed Borrower on the Guaranteed Obligations or under any Financing Document, or waive any Default or Event of Default with respect thereto, or waive, modify, amend or change any provision of any Financing Document;
(2)           sell, release, surrender, modify, impair, exchange or substitute any and all property, of any nature and from whomsoever received, held by, or for the benefit of, the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party as direct or indirect security for the payment or performance of any debt, liability or obligation of the Guaranteed Borrower or of any other Person secondarily or otherwise liable for any debt, liability or obligation of the Guaranteed Borrower under any Financing Document; and/or
(3)           settle, adjust or compromise any claim of the Guaranteed Borrower against any other Person secondarily or otherwise liable for any debt, liability or obligation of the Guaranteed Borrower under any Financing Document.
Each Guarantor hereby ratifies and confirms any such extension, renewal, change, sale, release, waiver, surrender, exchange, modification, amendment, impairment, substitution, settlement, adjustment or compromise and agrees that the same shall be binding upon it, and hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, any and all defenses, counterclaims or offsets which it might or could have by reason thereof, it being understood that such Guarantor shall at all times be bound by this Guaranty and remain liable hereunder.
(b)           Each Guarantor hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by Law:
(1)           notice of acceptance of this Guaranty by the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties or of the creation, renewal or accrual of any liability of the Guaranteed Borrower, present or future, or of the reliance of the Administrative Agent or any of the Secured Parties upon this Guaranty (it being understood that all Guaranteed Obligations described in Section 2 hereof shall conclusively be presumed to have been created, contracted or incurred in reliance upon the execution of this Guaranty); and
(2)           demand of payment by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties from the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Person indebted in any manner on or for any of the Guaranteed Obligations; and
 
 
3
 
 
(3)           presentment for the payment by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties or any other Person of any Financing Document or any other instrument, protest thereof and notice of its dishonor to any party thereto and to such Guarantor.
The obligations of each Guarantor under this Guaranty and the rights of the Administrative Agent to enforce such obligations by any proceedings, whether by action at Law, suit in equity or otherwise, shall not be subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment or termination, whether by reason of any claim of any character whatsoever or otherwise and shall not be subject to any defense, set-off, counterclaim (other than any compulsory counterclaim), recoupment or termination whatsoever.
(c)           The obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall be binding upon such Guarantor and its successors and assigns, and shall remain in full force and effect until the date on which all Commitments of the Lenders to the Guaranteed Borrower shall have terminated, all Letters of Credit issued on behalf of the Guaranteed Borrower shall have expired or terminated and all Obligations of the Guaranteed Borrower have indefeasibly been paid in full (the ) and such obligations shall not be affected, modified or impaired upon the happening from time to time of any event, including, without limitation, any of the following, whether or not with notice to or the consent of any Guarantor:
Termination Date
(1)           the genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of any of the Financing Documents or any of the terms of any thereof, the continuance of any obligation on the part of the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor on or in respect of or under any Financing Document or the power or authority or the lack of power or authority of the Guaranteed Borrower to execute and deliver any Financing Document or of any other Guarantor to execute and deliver this Guaranty or to perform any of its obligations hereunder or the existence or continuance of the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor as a legal entity; or
(2)           any default, failure or delay, willful or otherwise, in the performance by the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor of any obligations of any kind or character whatsoever under any Financing Document; or
(3)           any creditors rights, bankruptcy, receivership or other insolvency proceeding of the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor or in respect of the property of the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor or any merger, consolidation, reorganization, dissolution, liquidation, the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of or winding up of the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor; or
(4)           impossibility or illegality of performance on the part of the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor of its obligations under any Financing Document; or
(5)           in respect of the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor, any change of circumstances, whether or not foreseen or foreseeable, whether or not imputable to the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor, or other impossibility of performance through fire, explosion, accident, labor disturbance, floods, droughts, embargoes, wars (whether or not declared), civil commotion, acts of God or the public enemy, delays or failure of suppliers or carriers, inability to obtain materials, action of any federal or state regulatory body or agency, change of law or any other causes affecting performance, or any other force majeure, whether or not beyond the control of the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor and whether or not of the kind hereinbefore specified; or
 
 
4
 
 
(6)           any attachment, claim, demand, charge, Lien, order, process, lien or any other happening or event or reason, similar or dissimilar to the foregoing, or any withholding or diminution at the source, by reason of any taxes, assessments, expenses, debt, obligations or liabilities of any character, foreseen or unforeseen, and whether or not valid, incurred by or against the Guaranteed Borrower or any Guarantor or any claims, demands, charges or Liens of any nature, foreseen or unforeseen, incurred by any Guarantor, or against any sums payable in respect of or under any Financing Document, so that such sums would be rendered inadequate or would be unavailable to make the payments herein provided; or
(7)           any order, judgment, decree, ruling or regulation (whether or not valid) of any court of any nation or of any political subdivision thereof or any body, agency, department, official or administrative or regulatory agency of any thereof or any other action, happening, event or reason whatsoever which shall delay, interfere with, hinder or prevent, or in any way adversely affect, the performance by the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor of its respective obligations under or in respect of any Financing Document; or
(8)           the failure of any other Guarantor to receive any benefit from or as a result of its execution, delivery and performance of this Guaranty; or
(9)           any failure or lack of diligence in collection or protection, failure in presentment or demand for payment, protest, notice of protest, notice of default and of nonpayment, any failure to give notice to any other Guarantor of failure of the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor to keep and perform any obligation, covenant or agreement under the terms of any Financing Document or this Guaranty or failure to resort for payment to the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor or to any other guaranty or to any property, security, Liens or other rights or remedies; or
(10)           the acceptance of any additional security or other guaranty, the advance of additional money to the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor, amendments, modifications, consents or waivers with respect to any Financing Document, or the sale, release, substitution or exchange of any security for any Guaranteed Obligation of the Guaranteed Borrower; or
(11)           any change in the ownership of any shares of the Guaranteed Borrower or any Guarantor; or
(12)           any defense whatsoever that:  (i) the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor might have to the payment under any Financing Document, other than payment thereof in federal or other immediately available funds, or (ii) the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor might have to the performance or observance of any of the provisions of any Financing Document, whether through the satisfaction or purported satisfaction by the Guaranteed Borrower or any other Guarantor of its debts due to any cause such as bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership, merger, consolidation, reorganization, dissolution, liquidation, winding-up or otherwise; or
(13)           any act or failure to act with regard to any Financing Document or anything which might vary the risk of any Guarantor; or
(14)           any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of any Guarantor in respect of the obligations of any Guarantor under this Guaranty;
 
 
5
 
 
that the specific enumeration of the above-mentioned acts, failures or omissions shall not be deemed to exclude any other acts, failures or omissions, though not specifically mentioned above, it being the purpose and intent of this Guaranty that the obligations of each Guarantor shall be absolute, irrevocable and unconditional and shall not be discharged, impaired or varied except by the payment of all Obligations of the Guaranteed Borrower in accordance with their respective terms whenever the same shall become due and payable and all other sums due and payable under any Financing Document, at the place specified in and all in the manner and with the effect provided in the Credit Agreement.  Without limiting the foregoing, it is understood that repeated and successive demands may be made and recoveries may be had hereunder as and when, from time to time, the Guaranteed Borrower shall default under or in respect of the terms of any Financing Document and that notwithstanding recovery hereunder for or in respect of any given default or defaults by the Guaranteed Borrower under any Financing Document shall remain in full force and effect and shall apply to each and every subsequent default.
provided
(d)           All rights of the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party hereunder may be transferred or assigned at any time and shall be considered to be transferred or assigned at any time or from time to time upon the appointment of a successor to the Administrative Agent or any permitted transfer by a Lender of its rights under the Credit Agreement, whether with or without the consent of or notice to the Guarantors under this Guaranty or to the Guaranteed Borrower.
(e)           To the extent of any payments made under this Guaranty, each Guarantor shall be subrogated to the rights of the Administrative Agent and/or the Secured Parties to whom such payment was made, but such Guarantor covenants and agrees that such right of subrogation shall be subordinate in right of payment to the prior indefeasible final payment in cash in full of all amounts due and owing by the Guaranteed Borrower with respect to the Obligations of the Guaranteed Borrower under the Financing Documents and by the Guarantors under this Guaranty, and the Guarantors shall not take any action to enforce such right of subrogation, and the Guarantors shall not accept any payment in respect of such right of subrogation, until the Termination Date.  If any amount shall be paid to any Guarantor in violation of the preceding sentence at any time prior to the indefeasible payment in cash in full of all amounts payable by the Guaranteed Borrower under the Financing Documents and this Guaranty, such amount shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Secured Parties and shall forthwith be paid to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Secured Parties to be credited and applied to the amounts due or to become due with respect to all amounts payable by the Guaranteed Borrower under the Financing Documents and this Guaranty, whether matured or unmatured.  Each Guarantor acknowledges that it has received direct and indirect benefits from the financing arrangements contemplated by the Financing Documents and that the waiver set forth in this paragraph (e) is knowingly made as a result of the receipt of such benefits.
(f)           Each Guarantor agrees that, to the extent the Guaranteed Borrower, any other Guarantor or any other Person makes any payment under any of the Financing Documents with respect to the Guaranteed Borrower's Obligations, which payment or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, voided, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside, recovered, rescinded or is required to be retained by or repaid to a trustee, receiver, or any other Person under any bankruptcy code, common law, or equitable cause, then and to the extent of such payment, the obligation or the part thereof intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect with respect to the Guarantors obligations hereunder, as if said payment had not been made.  The liability of the Guarantors hereunder shall not be reduced or discharged, in whole or in part, by any payment to the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party from any source that is thereafter paid, returned or refunded in whole or in part by reason of the assertion of a claim of any kind relating thereto, including, but not limited to, any claim for breach of contract, breach of warranty, preference, illegality, invalidity, or fraud asserted by any account debtor or by any other Person.
 
 
6
 
 
(g)           Neither the Administrative Agent nor any Secured Party, shall be under any obligation:  (1) to marshal any assets in favor of the Guarantors or in payment of any or all of the liabilities of the Guaranteed Borrower under or in respect of the Financing Documents or the obligations of the Guarantors hereunder or (2) to pursue any other remedy that the Guarantors may or may not be able to pursue themselves and that may lighten the Guarantors burden, any right to which each Guarantor hereby expressly waives.
(h)           The obligations of each Guarantor under this Guaranty rank in right of payment with all other Indebtedness of such Guarantor which is not secured or which is not expressly subordinated in right of payment to any other Indebtedness of such Guarantor.
pari passu
Section 5.                      Representations and Warranties of the Guarantors
Each Guarantor represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and each Secured Party that:
(a)           Such Guarantor is a corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership or other legal entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of its jurisdiction of organization, and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership or other similar legal entity and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required by Law, other than those jurisdictions as to which the failure to be so qualified or in good standing could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on (1) the ability of such Guarantor to perform its obligations under this Guaranty, or (2) the validity or enforceability of this Guaranty against such Guarantor (herein in this , a ).  Such Guarantor has the power and authority to own or hold under lease the properties it purports to own or hold under lease, to transact the business it transacts and proposes to transact, to execute and deliver this Guaranty and to perform the provisions hereof.
Section 5
Material Adverse Effect
(b)           This Guaranty has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action on the part of such Guarantor, and this Guaranty constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Guarantor enforceable against such Guarantor in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by (1) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or conveyance or other similar Laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally and (2) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at Law).
(c)           The execution, delivery and performance by such Guarantor of this Guaranty will not (1) contravene, result in any breach of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation of any Lien in respect of any property of such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries under its charter documents, or except for contraventions, breaches or defaults which could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, under any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan, purchase or credit agreement, lease, or any other agreement or instrument to which such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries is bound or by which such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties may be bound or affected, (2) conflict with or result in a breach of any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any order, judgment, decree, or ruling of any court, arbitrator or Governmental Authority applicable to such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries or (3) violate any provision of any statute or other rule or regulation of any Governmental Authority applicable to the such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries.
(d)           No consent, approval or authorization of, or registration, filing or declaration with, any Governmental Authority is required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by such Guarantor of this Guaranty.
 
 
7
 
 
(e)           Such Guarantor is solvent, has capital not unreasonably small in relation to its business or any contemplated or undertaken transaction and has assets having a value both at fair valuation and at present fair salable value greater than the amount required to pay its debts as they become due and greater than the amount that will be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts as they become absolute and matured.  Such Guarantor does not intend to incur, or believe that it will incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they become due.  Such Guarantor will not be rendered insolvent by the execution and delivery of, and performance of its obligations under, this Guaranty.  Such Guarantor does not intend to hinder, delay or defraud its creditors by or through the execution and delivery of, or performance of its obligations under, this Guaranty.
(f)           All representations in the Credit Agreement applicable to such Guarantors (or any of them) are true and correct in all material respects.
Section 6.                      Amendments, Waivers and Consents
This Guaranty may be amended, and the observance of any term hereof may be waived (either retroactively or prospectively), pursuant to the provisions of of the Credit Agreement.  This Guaranty may be amended by the addition of additional Guarantors pursuant to a Guaranty Joinder.
Section 11.1
Section 7.                      Submission to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial
                   .
Section 7.1.
Consent to Jurisdiction; Service of Process; Waiver of Jury Trial
(a)            Each Guarantor irrevocably submits to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any State of New York or federal court sitting in New York City, over any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Guaranty.  To the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable Law, each Guarantor irrevocably waives and agrees not to assert, by way of motion, as a defense or otherwise, any claim that it is not subject to the jurisdiction of any such court, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court and any claim that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
in personam
in personam
(b)           Each Guarantor agrees, to the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable Law, that a final judgment in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 7.1 brought in any such court shall be conclusive and binding upon such party, subject to rights of appeal and may be enforced in the courts of the United States of America or the State of New York (or any other courts to the jurisdiction of which such party is or may be subject) by a suit upon such judgment.
(c)           Each Guarantor consents to process being served in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in paragraph (a) of this by mailing a copy thereof by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the address of such Guarantor specified in Section 8 or at such other address of which you shall then have been notified pursuant to said Section or to any agent for service of process appointed pursuant to the provisions of .  Each Guarantor agrees that such service upon receipt (i) shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process upon it in any such suit, action or proceeding and (ii) shall, to the full extent permitted by Law, be taken and held to be valid personal service upon and personal delivery to such party.  Notices hereunder shall be conclusively presumed received as evidenced by a delivery receipt furnished by the United States Postal Service or any reputable commercial delivery service.
Section 7.1
Section 7.2
 
 
8
 
 
(d)           Nothing in this shall affect the right of the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties to serve process in any manner permitted by Law, or limit any right that the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties may have to bring proceedings against any Guarantor in the courts of any appropriate jurisdiction or to enforce in any lawful manner a judgment obtained in one jurisdiction in any other jurisdiction.
Section 7.1
(e)           Each Guarantor waives trial by jury in any action brought on or with respect to this Guaranty or the Financing Documents or any other document executed in connection herewith or therewith.
(f)           Any payment on account of any amount that is payable hereunder by any Guarantor in Dollars which is made to or for the account of the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party in currency of any other jurisdiction, or in the lawful currency of any other country, whether as a result of any judgment or order or the enforcement thereof or the realization of any security or the liquidation of such party, shall constitute a discharge of such partys obligation under this Guaranty only to the extent of the amount of Dollars which such Secured Party could purchase in the foreign exchange markets with the amount of currency of such other jurisdiction, or other currency, as the case may be, in accordance with normal banking procedures at the rate of exchange prevailing on the Business Day following receipt of the payment first referred to above.  If, the amount of Dollars that could be so purchased is less than the amount of Dollars originally due to the Administrative Agent and/or such Secured Party, each Guarantor agrees, to the full extent permitted by Law, to indemnify and save harmless the Administrative Agent and/or such Secured Party from and against all loss or damage arising out of or as a result of such deficiency.  This indemnity shall, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, constitute an obligation separate and independent from the other obligations contained in this Guaranty, shall give rise to a separate and independent cause of action, shall apply irrespective of any indulgence granted by the Administrative Agent and such Secured Party from time to time and, shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any judgment or order for a liquidated sum in respect of an amount due hereunder or under any judgment or order.
                      .  Each Guarantor hereby irrevocably designates, appoints and empowers DeVry and its successors as the designee, appointee and agent for each Guarantor to receive, accept and acknowledge, for and on behalf of such Guarantor and its properties, service of any and all legal process, summons, notices and documents which may be served in such action, suit or proceeding relating to this Guaranty in the case of the New York federal and state courts located in New York City, which service may be made on any such designee, appointee and agent in accordance with legal procedures prescribed for such courts. Each Guarantor agrees to take any and all action necessary to continue such designation in full force and effect and should such designee, appointee and agent become unavailable for this purpose for any reason, each Guarantor will forthwith irrevocably designate a new designee, appointee and agent, which shall irrevocably agree to act as such, with the powers and for purposes specified in this .  Each Guarantor further irrevocably consents and agrees to service of any and all legal process, summons, notices and documents out of any of the aforesaid courts in any such action, suit or proceeding relating to any Financing Document or this Guaranty delivered to such Guarantor in accordance with this or to its then designee, appointee or agent for service.  If service is made upon such designee, appointee and agent, a copy of such process, summons, notice or document shall also be provided to any Guarantor at the address specified in Section 8 by registered or certified mail, or overnight express air courier; that failure of such Secured Party to provide such copy to such Guarantor shall not impair or affect in any way the validity of such service or any judgment rendered in such action or proceedings.  Each Guarantor agrees that service upon such Guarantor or any such designee, appointee and agent as provided for herein shall constitute valid and effective personal service upon such Guarantor with respect to matters contemplated in this and that the failure of any such designee, appointee and agent to give any notice of such
Section 7.2.
Service of Process Upon Guarantors
Section 7.2
Section 7.2
provided
Section 7.2
 
 
9
 
 
service to such Guarantor shall not impair or affect in any way the validity of such service or any judgment rendered in any action or proceeding based thereon.  Nothing herein shall, or shall be construed so as to, limit the right of the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties to bring actions, suits or proceedings with respect to the obligations and liabilities of any Guarantor under, or any other matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment rendered in any such action, suit or proceeding, in the courts of whatever jurisdiction in which the respective offices of the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties may be located or assets of such Guarantor may be found or as otherwise shall to Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties seem appropriate, or to affect the right to service of process in any jurisdiction in any other manner permitted by Law.
                      .  All payments whatsoever under this Guaranty will be made by any Guarantor free and clear of, and without liability for withholding or deduction for or on account of, any present or future Tax imposed or levied by or on behalf of (i) its jurisdiction of organization or (ii) any jurisdiction from or through which any amount is paid by any Guarantor pursuant to the terms of this Guaranty (hereinafter, a ), unlessthe withholding or deduction of such Tax is compelled by Law.  If any deduction or withholding or payment for any tax shall at any time be compelled by Law, each Guarantor will pay such additional amounts as may be necessary in order that the net amounts paid to each Secured Party pursuant to the terms of this Guaranty after such deduction or withholding (including, without limitation, any required deduction, withholding or other payment of Tax on or with respect to such additional amount) shall be not less than the amounts then due and payable under the terms of this Guaranty.
Section 7.3.
Tax Indemnity
Taxing Jurisdiction
 
In connection with the transfer of rights under the Credit Agreement, each Guarantor will furnish the Administrative Agent and the transferee of such with copies of all tax forms then required. Each Guarantor will also furnish the Administrative Agent and the Secured Parties, within the period of payment permitted by applicable Law, an official receipt, if any, issued by the relevant taxation or other authorities involved for all amounts deducted or withheld as aforesaid.
                      .  Unless required by applicable Laws, at no time shall the Administrative Agent have any obligation to file for or otherwise pursue on behalf of a Secured Party, or have any obligation to pay to any Secured Party, any refund of Taxes withheld or deducted from funds paid for the account of such Secured Party.  If the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by any Guarantor or with respect to which any Guarantor has paid additional amounts pursuant to Section 7.3, it shall pay to such Guarantor an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by such Guarantor under Section 7.3 with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or Secured Party, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund), that each Guarantor, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Secured Party, agrees to repay the amount paid over to such Guarantor (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Secured Party in the event the Administrative Agent or such Secured Party is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority.  This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to any Guarantor or any other Person.
Section 7.4.
Repayment
provided
 
 
10
 
 
Section 8.                      Notices
All notices and communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing and sent (a) by facsimile if the sender on the same day sends a confirming copy of such notice by a recognized overnight delivery service (charges prepaid), or (b) by a recognized overnight delivery service (with charges prepaid).  Any such notice must be sent:
(1)           if to the Administrative Agent, to such address as listed in of the Credit Agreement, or
Schedule 11.2
(2)           if to any Guarantor, to such Guarantor c/o the Borrowers at One Tower Lane, Oakbrook Terrace, IL 60181, or at such other address as such Guarantor shall have specified to the Administrative Agent in writing.
Notices under this will be deemed given only when actually received.
Section 8
Section 9.                      Miscellaneous
(a)           No remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party is intended to be exclusive of any other available remedy or remedies, but each and every such remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy given under this Guaranty now or hereafter existing at Law or in equity.  No delay or omission to exercise any right or power accruing upon any default, omission or failure of performance hereunder shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver thereof but any such right or power may be exercised from time to time and as often as may be deemed expedient.  In order to entitle the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party to exercise any remedy reserved to it under the Guaranty, it shall not be necessary for such Administrative Agent or Secured Party to physically produce the Financing Documents in any proceedings instituted by it or to give any notice, other than such notice as may be herein expressly required.
(b)           The Guarantors will pay all sums becoming due under this Guaranty by the method and at the address specified for such purpose in the Credit Agreement, or by such other reasonable method or at such other address as the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties shall have from time to time specified to the Guarantors in writing for such purpose, without the presentation or surrender of this Guaranty or any Financing Documents.
(c)           Any provision of this Guaranty that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall (to the full extent permitted by Law) not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
(d)           If the whole or any part of this Guaranty shall be now or hereafter become unenforceable against any one or more of the Guarantors for any reason whatsoever or if it is not executed by any one or more of the Guarantors, this Guaranty shall nevertheless be and remain fully binding upon and enforceable against each other Guarantor as if it had been made and delivered only by such other Guarantors.
(e)           This Guaranty shall be binding upon each Guarantor and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the Administrative Agent and each Secured Party and its successors and assigns whether so expressed or not, until the Termination Date.
 
 
11
 
 
(f)           This Guaranty may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original but all of which together shall constitute one instrument.  Each counterpart may consist of a number of copies hereof, each signed by less than all, but together signed by all, of the parties hereto.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of this Agreement by facsimile or other electronic means shall be effective as an original.
(g)           This Guaranty shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and the rights of the parties shall be governed by the law of the State of New York.
(h)           The Recitals are incorporated into this Guaranty by reference with the same force and effect as though set forth herein in full.
(i)           The Administrative Agent is authorized to enforce this Guaranty on behalf of the Secured Parties.
 
 
 
12
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has caused this Offshore Subsidiary Guaranty to be duly executed by an authorized representative as of this _____ day of __________, 201__.
[INSERT GUARANTORS]
By _______________________________
Its ________________________
 
 
 
 
13
 
This dated as of _________, _____ (the or this ) is entered into by the undersigned __________, a ____________ corporation ( an  ).  Terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Credit Agreement hereinafter referred to.
[guaranty joinder]
[
Guaranty Joinder
]
[on a joint and several basis]
[each of]
[and
____________
, a
___________
corporation]
[which parties are hereinafter referred to individually as]
Additional Guarantor
[and collectively as the 
Additional Guarantors
]
A.            Additional Guarantor, is presently an Offshore Subsidiary of Global Education International, Inc., (the ).
[Each]
Guaranteed Borrower
B.           The Credit Extensions under the Credit Agreement have benefited and will continue to benefit the Borrowers and their Subsidiaries by, among other things, providing funds to enable the Borrowers to finance working capital and capital expenditures, support the issuance of standby letters of credit, make Restricted Payments to the extent permitted in of the Credit Agreement, and for other general corporate purposes.
Section 7.6
            Additional Guarantor is required by Section 6.12 of the Credit Agreement to enter into the Offshore Subsidiary Guaranty dated as of May 10, 2011 (the ) as security for the Obligations of the Guaranteed Borrower.
C
.
[
Each]
Guaranty
NOW, THEREFORE, as required by the Credit Agreement and in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency whereof are hereby acknowledged, Additional Guarantor does hereby covenant and agree, as follows:
[each/the]
[jointly and severally,]
In accordance with the requirements of the Guaranty, the Additional Guarantor desire to amend the definition of Guarantor (as the same may have been heretofore amended) set forth in the Guaranty attached hereto so that at all times from and after the date hereof, the Additional Guarantor shall be jointly and severally liable as Guarantors as set forth in the Guaranty for the Guaranteed Obligations of the Guaranteed Borrower to the extent and in the manner set forth in the Guaranty.
[s]
[s]
The undersigned is the duly elected ____________ of the Additional Guarantor and is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Guaranty Joinder for the benefit of all Secured Parties.  The execution by the undersigned of this Guaranty Joinder shall evidence its consent to and acknowledgment and approval of the terms set forth herein and in the Guaranty.  By its execution hereof, the Additional Guarantor shall be deemed to have made the representations and warranties set forth in Section 5 of the Guaranty in favor of the Secured Parties as of the date of this Guaranty Joinder.
[s]
[s]
Upon execution of this Guaranty Joinder, the Guaranty shall be deemed to be amended as set forth above.  The Additional Guarantor[s] hereby become a Guarantor under the Guaranty and as a Guarantor thereunder, hereby guarantees all Guaranteed Obligations.  Except as amended herein, the terms and provisions of the Guaranty are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved in all respects.
[s]
Any and all notices, requests, certificates and other instruments may refer to the Guaranty without making specific reference to this Guaranty Joinder, but nevertheless all such references shall be deemed to include this Guaranty Joinder unless the context shall otherwise require.
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
               [NAME OF ADDITIONAL GUARANTOR]
 
 
 
By _______________________________
Its ________________________
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15
 

EXHIBIT 4.6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A         -                U.S. Pledged Stock            
Exhibit B          -Pledge Agreement Joinder
 
 
 
 
 
(as the same may be amended or modified from time to time, this ) is dated as of May 10, 2011, by and among DeVry Inc., a Delaware corporation (), the Designated Borrowers party hereto or who may become a party hereto (together with DeVry, the ) by executing and delivering a Pledge Agreement Joinder (a ) as hereinafter defined, certain subsidiaries of the Obligors party hereto or who may become a party hereto by executing and delivering a Joinder (such subsidiaries, the Obligors and any other Person which grants any Collateral to the Administrative Agent hereunder or any other security document securing the Secured Obligations, are collectively referred to as the ), and Bank of America, N.A., in its capacity as Administrative Agent hereunder.
THIS PLEDGE AGREEMENT
Agreement
DeVry
Obligors
Joinder
Grantors
A.           Pursuant to the terms of that certain Credit Agreement dated as of even date herewith (as amended, restated, superseded or otherwise modified from time to time, the ) among the Obligors, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, and the banks and other lenders or institutions from time to time party thereto (the ), the Banks are extending credit to the Obligors on the terms provided therein.  The obligations of DeVry under the Credit Agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by certain U.S. Subsidiaries of DeVry, and the obligations of the Designated Borrowers under the Credit Agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by DeVry, by certain U.S. Subsidiaries of DeVry and by certain Offshore Subsidiaries of each Designated Borrower.
Credit Agreement
Banks
B.           As a condition to the extension of financial accommodations to be given under the Credit Agreement by the Banks, the Banks are requiring that the Obligors and the other Grantors and the Administrative Agent enter into this Agreement to secure the obligations of each Grantor in respect of the Financing Agreements,
C.           The Grantors have determined that the execution and delivery of this Agreement is in furtherance of their corporate purposes and in their best interest and that they will derive substantial benefit, whether directly or indirectly, from the execution of this Agreement, having regard for all relevant facts and circumstances.
, in consideration of the premises and for the purpose of inducing the extension of financial accommodations by the Banks pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto do hereby covenant and agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
                      .  As used in this Agreement, capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Credit Agreement and the following terms have the meanings indicated below, all such definitions to be equally applicable to singular and plural forms of the terms defined:
Section 1.1
Defined Terms
 means any Grantor that has executed a joinder to this Agreement in the form of hereto.
Additional Grantor
Exhibit B
 
 
 
 
 
 has the meaning ascribed to that term in recitals hereto.
Banks
 means the Uniform Commercial Code as the same may from time to time be in effect in any applicable jurisdiction.
Code
 means the Pledged Stock, any additional collateral granted pursuant to and any other collateral held or received by any Secured Party to secure payment of any Secured Obligation.
Collateral
Section 6.3
 has the meaning ascribed to that term in recitals hereto.
Credit Agreement
 means, (i) with respect to any corporation, any capital stock of such corporation, (ii) with respect to any partnership or limited partnership, any partnership or limited partnership interest in such partnership or limited partnership, (iii) with respect to any limited liability company, any membership interest in such limited liability company, and (iv) with respect to any other business entity, any equity or ownership interest in such business entity.
Equity Interests
 means the Loan Documents and any Specified Swap Contract among a Loan Party and a Bank or an Affiliate of a Bank.
Financing Agreements
 has the meaning assigned thereto in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Grantors
 shall have the meaning assigned thereto in the introductory paragraph hereto in the form of or such other form that is acceptable to the Administrative Agent.
Joinder
Exhibit B
 has the meaning ascribed to such term in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
Obligors
 means any (a) Designated Borrower, (b) any of its Offshore Subsidiaries and (c) any Person organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States who grants any Collateral to the Administrative Agent hereunder or any other security document securing any Secured Obligations.
Offshore Grantor
 means Liens permitted under Sections 7.1(c), (d), (f), (h), (i) or (j) of the Credit Agreement.
Permitted Liens
 means the Equity Interests pledged by the Grantors pursuant to of this Agreement.
Pledged Stock
Section 2.1
 has the meaning assigned to it under the Code and, in any event, includes but is not limited to, (a) any and all proceeds of any collection, sale or other disposition of the Collateral (b) any and all amounts from time to time paid or payable under or in connection with any of the Collateral and (c) amounts collected by the Administrative Agent or any Secured Party by of set-off, deduction or counterclaim.
Proceeds
 means, with respect to any Pledged Stock of a Subsidiary, all rights, authority, powers and privileges of the owner of such Pledged Stock, and all moneys and property and claims for moneys and property due and to become due to such owner under all dividends, distributions, declarations, profits, accounts, contract rights, voting rights, general intangibles, proceeds and any and all other interests and property rights relating to and/or due from such Subsidiary.
Related Equity Rights
 
 
2
 
 
 means (a) with respect to any U.S. Grantor, all Obligations, (b) with respect to any Offshore Grantor who is a Designated Borrower, such Grantors Obligations under any of the Financing Agreements and (c) with respect to any other Offshore Grantor, such Offshore Grantors Guaranteed Obligations as defined in the Offshore Guaranty to which it is a party.
Secured Obligations
 means the holders, from time to time, of the Secured Obligations.
Secured Parties
 means  any U.S. Foreign Holdco that directly or indirectly owns Equity Interests of a Designated Borrower.
U.S Foreign Holdco Grantor
 means DeVry, and any of its U.S. Subsidiaries and any other Person organized under the Laws of a jurisdiction located within the United States who grants any Collateral to the Administrative Agent hereunder or any other security document securing any Secured Obligations; provided however, a U.S. Foreign Holdco shall not be a U.S. Grantor.
U.S. Grantor
           .
Section
2
.
1
.
Pledged Stock
(a)           To secure the prompt payment and performance in full when due (whether by lapse of time, acceleration or otherwise) of the Secured Obligations, each U.S. Grantor hereby pledges, charges, assigns, transfers and sets over to the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Secured Parties, and hereby pledges, charges, assigns, transfers and grants to the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Secured Parties, a continuing security interest in all of such U.S. Grantors interest and property rights, whether now existing or hereafter acquired or arising, in and to:  (i) 100% of the Equity Interests directly owned by such U.S. Grantor of each U.S. Subsidiary that is not also a U.S. Foreign Holdco, (ii) 65% of the Equity Interests directly owned by such U.S. Grantor of each Designated Borrower, (ii) 65% of the Equity Interests directly owned by such U.S. Grantor of each Offshore Subsidiary and each U.S. Foreign Holdco that, in each case, directly owns Equity Interests in such Designated Borrower and (iii) all Related Equity Rights of the foregoing.
(b)           To secure the prompt payment and performance in full when due (whether by lapse of time, acceleration or otherwise) by each Designated Borrower of the Obligations of such Designated Borrower, each U.S. Grantor and each U.S Foreign Holdco Grantorhereby pledges, charges, assigns, transfers and sets over to the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Secured Parties, and hereby pledges, charges, assigns, transfers and grants to the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Secured Parties, a continuing security interest in all of such Grantors interest and property rights, whether now existing or hereafter acquired or arising, in and to:  (i) 100% of the Equity Interests directly owned by such Grantor of such Designated Borrower, (ii) 100% of the Equity Interests directly owned by such Grantor of each Offshore Subsidiary that directly owns Equity Interests in such Designated Borrower, (iii) 100% of the Equity Interests directly owned by such Grantor of each U.S. Foreign Holdco that directly owns Equity Interests in such Designated Borrower and (iv) all Related Equity Rights of the foregoing.
 
 
 
3
 
 
(c)           To secure the prompt payment and performance in full when due (whether by lapse of time, acceleration or otherwise) by each Designated Borrower of the Obligations of such Designated Borrower, each Offshore Grantor hereby pledges, charges, assigns, transfers and sets over to the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Secured Parties, and hereby pledges, charges, assigns, transfers and grants to the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Secured Parties, a continuing security interest in all of such Offshore Grantors interest and property rights, whether now existing or hereafter acquired or arising, in and to:  (i) 100% of the Equity Interests directly owned by such Offshore Grantor of such Designated Borrower, (ii) 100% of the Equity Interests directly owned by such Grantor of each Offshore Subsidiary that directly owns Equity Interests in such Designated Borrower, (iii) 100% of the Equity Interests directly owned by such Grantor of each Offshore Subsidiary that is a Subsidiary of such Designated Borrower and (iv) all Related Equity Rights of the foregoing.
(d)           Notwithstanding any provision of this or any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, it is understood that (i) as of the date hereof, the Equity Interest in (i) Ross University School of Medicine School of Veterinary Medicine (St. Kitts) Limited and Ross (Bahamas) Ltd. shall not be pledged pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such pledge is required under the Credit Agreement and (ii) no Dormant Subsidiary shall be pledged pursuant to this Agreement.
Section 2.1
          .  Each Secured Party agrees to promptly deliver to the Administrative Agent any other Collateral that it receives or holds, accompanied by documentation acceptable to the Administrative Agent, to be held as security for the Secured Obligations in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Section
2
.
2
.
Delivery of Collateral by Secured Parties
Each Grantor represents and warrants with respect to itself and the Collateral pledged and charged by such Grantor to, the Secured Parties that:
(a)           It is the owner of the Pledged Stock pledged and charged pursuant to this Agreement, and all rights incident thereto free and clear of any Lien other than the pledge and charge made hereunder and Permitted Liens.
(b)           If such Pledged Stock is certificated, it has deposited with the Administrative Agent the Pledged Stock pledged by such Grantor, together with a stock power duly endorsed in blank or accompanied by an assignment or assignments sufficient to transfer title thereto except to the extent that applicable Law requires the same, such forms must be executed by the purchaser and/or notarized in order for such stock power or transfer to be recorded.
(c)           This Agreement creates a valid security interest in the Collateral pledged by such Grantor securing payment and performance of the Secured Obligations and all filings and other action necessary to perfect such security interest under all applicable jurisdictions have been or will be taken contemporaneously with the initial funding under the Credit Agreement.
(d)           Each share of Pledged Stock is adequately described in and is subject to the lien of this Agreement.  The Administrative Agent has a valid first lien upon and (upon filing of certain documents in foreign jurisdictions) prior perfected security interest in the Pledged Stock
 
 
4
 
 
subject to no equal or prior lien on the Pledged Stock(other than Liens permitted by Section 7.1(j) of the Credit Agreement).  No effective financing statement or other instrument similar in effect covering all or any part of the Pledge Stock is on file in any recording office, except such as may have been filed in favor of the Administrative Agent with respect to this Agreement.
 
(e)           Each Grantor represents and warrants that the representations and warrants made with respect to such Grantor set forth in the Loan Documents are true and correct and such representations and warranties are incorporated herein by reference with the same force and effect as though set forth herein in full.
(f)           As of the date hereof, the Pledged Stock is identified on hereto.
Exhibit A
Each Grantor, with respect to itself and the Collateral pledged and charged by it hereunder, covenants and agrees with the Secured Parties that:
(a)           Such Grantor will pay promptly when due all taxes, assessments, and governmental charges and levies upon or against the Collateral in each case before the same become delinquent and before penalties accrue thereon, unless (1) the validity, applicability or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate actions or proceedings which will prevent the forfeiture or sale of such Collateral or any material interference with the use thereof by such Grantor and (2) such Grantor shall have set aside on its books, reserves deemed by it to be adequate with respect thereto in accordance with and as required by GAAP.
(b)           It will not, without the Administrative Agents prior written consent, Dispose of or otherwise permit a Lien (other than Permitted Liens) to exist on Collateral or any interest therein, provided that such Grantor may sell, assign or otherwise Dispose of any Collateral or interest therein if such Disposition is permitted by the Credit Agreement.
(c)           It will not will change its name, or except as aforesaid, transact business under any trade name, in each case without first giving the Administrative Agent 30 days prior written notice of its intent to do so, that in the case of any Acquisition by such Grantor of any business entity or operation giving rise to the requirement to give notice to the Administrative Agent of the use of a new trade name pursuant to the foregoing, such notice shall be given to the Administrative Agent within 30 days following the date such Acquisition is finalized.
provided
(d)           The Administrative Agent agrees to prepare, and such Grantor agrees to cooperate with the Administrative Agent to execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent, such further agreements and assignments or other instruments and to do all such other things necessary or reasonably appropriate to assure the Administrative Agent its security interest hereunder, including such financing statement or statements, continuation statements or amendments thereof or supplements thereto or other instruments as may from time to time be required in order to comply with the Code.
(e)           In the event for any reason the Law of any jurisdiction other than the State of New York becomes or is applicable to the Collateral or any part thereof, or to any of the Secured Obligations, each Grantor agrees to execute and deliver all such instruments and to do all such
 
 
5
 
 
other things as the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion reasonably deems necessary or appropriate to preserve, protect and enforce the security interest of the Administrative Agent as set forth herein under the Law of such other jurisdiction to at least the same extent as such security interest would be protected under the Code.  If any Collateral is in the possession or control of any of such Grantors agents or processors and the Administrative Agent so requests, such Grantor agrees to notify such agents or processors in writing of the Administrative Agents security interest therein and, upon the occurrence and continuance of an Event of Default and at the Administrative Agents request, instruct all agents and processors in possession of Collateral to hold all such Collateral for the Administrative Agents account and subject to the Administrative Agents instructions.
(f)           It shall respond promptly to all reasonable requests of the Administrative Agent for information concerning the conduct of all lawsuits brought by such Grantor (or in which such Grantor participates) against any other Person.  Each Grantor will warrant and defend the Collateral pledged by it hereunder against any claims and demands of all persons at any time claiming the same or any interest in such Collateral adverse to the Administrative Agent.
(g)           Each Grantor shall remain liable to the Secured Parties under the Financing Agreements to which it is a party for any deficiency resulting after the sale of its Collateral. Any surplus remaining after the full payment and satisfaction of the Secured Obligations shall be returned to the applicable Grantor or whomsoever the Administrative Agent reasonably determines is lawfully entitled thereto.
(h)           The Collateral and every part thereof will be free and clear of all security interests, liens (including without limitation mechanics, laborers and statutory liens), attachments, levies and encumbrances of every kind, nature and description, whether voluntary or involuntary, other than the security interest granted hereunder and Permitted Liens.
On failure of any Grantor to perform any of the covenants and agreements contained herein or in any other Loan Document, the Administrative Agent may, at its option, perform the same and in so doing may expend such sums as the Administrative Agent may reasonably deem advisable in the performance thereof, including without limitation the payment of any insurance premiums, the payment of any taxes, liens and encumbrances, expenditures made in defending against any adverse claim and all other expenditures which the Administrative Agent may be compelled to make by operation of Law or which the Administrative Agent may make by agreement or otherwise for the protection of the security hereof.  All such sums and amounts so expended shall be repayable by the applicable Grantor immediately without notice or demand, shall constitute so much additional Secured Obligations and shall bear interest from the date said amounts are expended at the Default Rate.  No such performance of any covenant or agreement by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Grantors, and no such advancement or expenditure therefor, shall relieve the Grantors of any Default under the terms of this Agreement.  The Administrative Agent, in making any payment hereby authorized may do so according to any bill, statement or estimate procured from the appropriate public office or holder of the claim to be discharged without inquiry into the accuracy of such bill, statement or estimate or into the validity of any tax assessment, sale, forfeiture, tax lien or title or claim.  The Administrative Agent, in performing any act hereunder, shall be the sole judge in reasonably determining whether the Grantors are required to perform the same under the terms of this Agreement.
 
 
6
 
 
            .
Section
6
.
1
Voting and Payment Rights in Respect of Pledged Equity
Until an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent instructs the Grantors otherwise, the Grantors shall be entitled:
(a)           To vote all or any part of the Pledged Stock at any and all meetings of shareholders relating to such Pledged Stock and to execute consents in respect thereof, and to consent to ratify or waive notice of any or all meetings of the shareholders relating to such Pledged Stock with the same force and effect as if this Agreement had not been made, and, if necessary, upon the receipt of the written request from the applicable Grantor, the Administrative Agent shall from time to time execute and deliver to the applicable Grantor appropriate proxies for that purpose; and
(b)           To receive, collect or have paid over all dividends declared or paid on the Pledged Stock, except (i) dividends or distributions constituting stock dividends, (ii) dividends or distributions in kind, or (iii) liquidating dividends (either partial or complete), any and all such excepted dividends and distributions to constitute and be additional security for the purposes aforesaid and to be paid over and/or pledged and deposited with the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent shall have in respect thereof all of the powers and rights as are herein provided in respect of the initial Pledged Stock.
           .  Each Grantor agrees that it shall pay over to the Administrative Agent, immediately upon receipt, any money or other distribution upon or in respect of the Pledged Stock or any part thereof, other than dividends which such Grantor is entitled to receive or retain under above.
Section
6
.
2
.
Payments to Administrative Agent
Section 6.1
 
           .  Each Grantor agrees that it shall comply with the requirements of Section 6.13 of the Credit Agreement with respect to all Equity Interests now or hereafter owned by such Grantor.
Section
6
.
3
.
Further Assurances
           .  All payments or other distributions received by such Grantor upon or in respect of the Pledged Stock other than which such Grantor is entitled to receive and retain under or shall be held in trust for the Administrative Agent and forthwith delivered by such Grantor in the form received, with such Grantors endorsement in blank for transfer or accompanied by an assignment or assignments sufficient to transfer title thereto, and shall constitute part of the Pledged Stock.
Section
6
.
4
.
Payments and Distributions Held in Trust
Section 6.1
Section 6.3
Each Grantor hereby appoints the Administrative Agent the attorney-in-fact of such Grantor for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Agreement and taking any action and executing or completing any instruments which the Administrative Agent may deem reasonably necessary or advisable
 
 
7
 
 
to accomplish the purpose hereof, which appointment as attorney-in-fact is irrevocable and coupled with an interest; , , that the Administrative Agent shall have no duty or obligation to any Grantor to collect or enforce payment of any of the Pledged Stock whether by way of presentment, demand, protest, notice of dishonor or otherwise.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, after the happening, but only during the continuance, of any Event of Default, the Administrative Agent shall have the right and power to receive, endorse and collect all checks made payable to the order of any Grantor representing payments of dividends or any other distribution or payment in respect of the Pledged Stock or any part thereof and to give full discharge for the same.
provided
however
Whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated, the U.S. Grantors and the Offshore Grantors, shall indemnify, defend and hold the Administrative Agent, each Secured Party and any of their respective Related Parties (each, an ) harmless from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, charges, expenses and disbursements (including attorney costs) of any kind or nature whatsoever which may at any time be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against any such Person in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any document contemplated by or referred to herein, or the transactions contemplated hereby, or any action taken or omitted by any such Person under or in connection with any of the foregoing, including with respect to any investigation, litigation or proceeding (including any insolvency proceeding or appellate proceeding) related to or arising out of this Agreement or the Secured Obligations or the use of the proceeds thereof, whether or not any Indemnified Person is a party thereto (all the foregoing, collectively, the ); , that the Grantors shall have no obligation hereunder to any Indemnified Person with respect to Indemnified Liabilities resulting solely from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnified Person.  The agreements in this Section shall survive payment of all Secured Obligations.
Indemnified Person
Indemnified Liabilities
provided
(a)           With respect to all of the Collateral other than cash , upon the occurrence and during the continuation of any Event of Default, the Administrative Agent shall have, in addition to all other rights provided herein or by Law, the rights and remedies of a secured party under the Code (regardless of whether the Code is the Law of the jurisdiction where the rights or remedies are asserted and regardless of whether the Code applies to the affected Collateral), and further the Administrative Agent may, without demand and without advertisement, except with respect to a public sale, hearing or process of Law, all of which each Grantor hereby waives, at any time or times, sell and deliver any or all Collateral (other than cash) held by or for it at public or private sale, for cash, upon credit or otherwise, at such prices and upon such terms as the Administrative Agent deems advisable, in its sole discretion, provided that said disposition complies with any legal requirements.  In addition to all other sums due any Secured Party, each Grantor shall pay the Administrative Agent all costs and expenses incurred by it, including a reasonable allowance for attorneys fees and court costs, in obtaining, liquidating or enforcing payment of its Collateral or Secured Obligations or in the prosecution or defense of any action or proceeding by or against the Administrative Agent concerning any matter arising out of or connected with this Agreement, its Collateral or Secured Obligations, including without limitation any of the foregoing arising in, arising under or related to a case under the United States Bankruptcy Code (or any successor
 
 
8
 
 
statute).  Any requirement of reasonable notice shall be met if such notice is personally served on or mailed, postage prepaid, to the Grantors in accordance with at least 10 days before the time of sale or other event giving rise to the requirement of such notice; however, no notification need be given to the Grantors if the Grantors have signed, after an Event of Default has occurred, a statement renouncing any right to notification of sale or other intended disposition, provided that the Grantors are not hereby agreeing to sign such a statement.  The Administrative Agent shall not be obligated to make any sale or other disposition of the Collateral regardless of notice having been given.  To the extent permitted by Law, the Administrative Agent or any Bank may be the purchaser at any such sale.  To the extent permitted by applicable Law, the Grantors hereby waive all of their rights of redemption from any such sale.  Subject to the provisions of applicable Law, the Administrative Agent may postpone or cause the postponement of the sale of all or any portion of the Collateral by announcement at the time and place of such sale, and such sale may, without further notice, be made at the time and place to which the sale was postponed or the Administrative Agent may further postpone such sale by announcement made at such time and place.
Section 11(c)
(b)           With respect to cash, upon the occurrence and during the continuation of any Event of Default, the Administrative Agent shall have, in addition to all other rights provided herein or by Law, the rights and remedies of a secured party under the Code (regardless of whether the Code is the Law of the jurisdiction where the rights or remedies are asserted and regardless of whether the Code applies to the affected Collateral), the right to exercise exclusive control over any proceeds of Collateral in its possession or held at any bank or in any lockbox, including cash, including without limitation the right to collect, withdraw and receive all amounts due or to become due or payable under each such deposit account, and shall have the right to apply such amounts in reduction of the Secured Obligations as contemplated by Section 8.3 of the Credit Agreement.
(c)           Failure by the Administrative Agent to exercise any right, remedy or option under this Agreement or any other agreement among the Grantors and the Administrative Agent or provided by Law, or delay by the Administrative Agent in exercising the same, shall not operate as a waiver; no waiver hereunder shall be effective unless it is in writing, signed by the party against whom such waiver is sought to be enforced and then only to the extent specifically stated.  Neither the Administrative Agent nor any party acting as attorney for the Administrative Agent shall be liable hereunder for any acts or omissions or for any error of judgment or mistake of fact or law other than their gross negligence or willful misconduct.  The rights and remedies of the Secured Parties under this Agreement shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any other right or remedy which the Secured Parties may have.
This Agreement shall be a continuing agreement in every respect and shall remain in full force and effect until all of the Secured Obligations have been fully paid and satisfied in cash, all outstanding Letters of Credit have either terminated or expired, and any commitments of any Secured Party to extend any credit to any Grantor under the Credit Agreement shall have terminated.  Upon such termination of this Agreement, the Administrative Agent shall, upon the request and at the expense of the Grantors, forthwith release all its liens, charges and security interests hereunder.
 
 
9
 
 
 
(a)           Pursuant to a supplement acceptable to the Administrative Agent, any present or future Grantor may from time to time pledge additional collateral to the Administrative Agent whereupon such additional collateral shall automatically become Collateral hereunder.  It being understood that the execution thereof by the Administrative Agent and/or any other Grantors shall not be required in order for such supplement to be effective.  Pursuant to a Joinder, any Person may become a Grantor hereunder and pledge collateral to the Administrative Agent as described in to the Joinder whereupon such collateral shall automatically become Collateral hereunder.  The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Secured Parties of the execution on any such Joinder, it being understood that the execution thereof by the Secured Parties, the Administrative Agent and/or any other Grantors shall not be required in order for such supplement to be effective.
Exhibit A
(b)           This Agreement shall create a continuing security interest in the Collateral and shall be binding upon the Grantors, their successors and assigns and shall inure, together with the rights and remedies of the Secured Parties hereunder, to the benefit of the Secured Parties and their respective successors and assigns which are permitted under the Credit Agreement provided, however, that no Grantor may assign its rights or delegate its duties hereunder without the Administrative Agents prior written consent.  Each Grantor hereby releases the Administrative Agent from any liability for any act or omission relating to the Collateral or this Agreement, except the Administrative Agents gross negligence or willful misconduct.
(c)           All notices required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall be in conformance with of the Credit Agreement.
Section 11.2
(d)           In the event that any provision hereof shall be deemed to be invalid by reason of the operation of any Law or by reason of the interpretation placed thereon by any court, this Agreement shall be construed as not containing such provision, but only as to such jurisdictions where such Law or interpretation is operative, and the invalidity of such provision shall not affect the validity of any remaining provision hereof, and any and all other provisions hereof which are otherwise lawful and valid shall remain in full force and effect.
(e)           This Agreement shall be deemed to have been made in the State of New York and shall be governed by and in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to principles of conflicts of laws.  All terms which are used in this Agreement which are defined in the Code shall have the same meanings herein as said terms do in the Code unless this Agreement shall otherwise specifically provide, The headings in this instrument are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning of any provision hereof.
(f)           The Administrative Agent hereby disclaims any representation or warranty to the Secured Parties concerning the perfection of the security interest granted hereunder or in the value of any of the Collateral.
(g)           Each of the Grantors and the Administrative Agent hereby, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, waives trial by jury in any action brought under or in connection with this Agreement or any of the documents or instruments executed in connection herewith.
 
 
10
 
 
(h)           This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto on separate counterparts, each constituting an original, but all together one and the same instrument.  It shall not be necessary in making proof of this Agreement to produce or account for more than one such counterpart.  Delivery of executed counterparts of this Agreement by facsimile or other electronic means shall be effective as an original.
(a)           Each Grantor agrees that no Secured Party shall have any responsibility to inquire into the apportionment, allocation or disposition of any Proceeds as among the Grantors.
(b)           For the purpose of implementing the Financing Agreements, each Grantor hereby irrevocably appoints DeVry as its agent and attorney-in-fact for all purposes of the Financing Agreements, including without limitation the giving and receiving of notices and other communications.
(c)           Each Grantor acknowledges that the handling of the Collateral on a joint basis as set forth in this Agreement is solely an accommodation to Grantors and is done at their request.  Each Grantor agrees that no Secured Party shall incur any liability to any Grantor as a result thereof.  To induce the Secured Parties to enter into this Agreement, and in consideration thereof, each Grantor hereby agrees to indemnify each Secured Party and hold each Secured Party harmless from and against any and all liabilities, expenses, losses, damages and/or claims of damage or injury asserted against any Secured Party by any Grantor or by any other Person arising from or incurred by reason of the structuring of this Agreement as herein provided, reliance by any Secured Party on any requests or instructions from any Grantor, or any other action taken by any Secured Party hereunder, except to the extent resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of any Secured Party.  This Section shall survive termination of this Agreement.
(d)           Each Grantor represents and warrants to the Secured Parties that the request for joint handling of the Collateral hereunder was made because the Grantors are engaged in related operations.  Each Grantor expects to derive benefit, directly or indirectly, from such availability because the successful operation of Grantors is dependent on the continued successful performance of the functions of the group.
(e)           Each Grantor represents and warrants to the Secured Parties that (i) it has established adequate means of obtaining from each other Grantor on a continuing basis financial and other information pertaining to the business, operations and condition (financial and otherwise) of each other Grantors and their respective property, and (ii) each Grantor now is and hereafter will be completely familiar with the business, operations and condition (financial and otherwise) of each other Grantor, and its property.  Each Grantor hereby waives and relinquishes any duty on the part of any Secured Party to disclose to such Grantor any matter, fact or thing relating to the business, operations or condition (financial or otherwise) of any other Grantor, or the property of any other Grantor, whether now or hereafter known by any Secured Party during the life of this Agreement.
 
 
11
 
 
(f)           Each Grantor acknowledges that its Secured Obligations may derive from value provided directly to another Person and, in full recognition of that fact, each Grantor consents and agrees that any Secured Party may, at any time and from time to time, without notice to, or demand on, or the agreement of, such Grantor, and without affecting the enforceability or security of the Financing Agreements: (i) with the agreement of any other Grantor, supplement, modify, amend, extend, renew, accelerate, or otherwise change the time for payment or the terms of the Secured Obligations or any part thereof, including any increase or decrease of the rate(s) of interest thereon; (ii) with the agreement of any other Grantor, supplement, modify, amend or waive, or enter into or give any agreement, approval or consent with respect to, the Secured Obligations or any part thereof or any of the Financing Agreements or any additional security or guaranties, or any condition, covenant, default, remedy, right, representation or term thereof or thereunder; (iii) with the agreement of any other Grantor, accept new or additional instruments, documents or agreements in exchange for or relative to any of the Financing Agreements or the Secured Obligations or any part thereof, (iv) accept partial payments on the Secured Obligations; (v) with the agreement of any other Grantor, receive and hold additional security or guaranties for the Secured Obligations or any part thereof, (vi) release, reconvey, terminate, waive, abandon, subordinate, exchange, substitute, transfer and enforce any security or guaranties, and apply any security and direct the order or manner of sale thereof as the Secured Parties in their sole and absolute discretion may determine; (vii) release any party or any guarantor from any personal liability with respect to the Secured Obligations or any part thereof; (viii) settle, release on terms satisfactory to the Secured Parties and any other Grantor or by operation of applicable laws or otherwise liquidate or enforce any Secured Obligations and any security or guaranty in any manner, consent to the transfer of any security and bid and purchase at any sale; and/or (ix) consent to the merger, change or any other restructuring or termination of the corporate existence of any other Grantor or any other Person, and correspondingly restructure the Secured Obligations, continuing existence of any Lien under any other Financing Agreement to which any Grantor is a party or the enforceability hereof or thereof with respect to all or any part of the Secured Obligations.
Each Grantor expressly waives any right to require any Secured Party to marshal assets in favor of any Grantor, any other Person or any other Person or to proceed against any other Grantor or any other Person or any Collateral provided by any other Grantor or any other Person, and agrees that any Secured Party may proceed against Grantors and/or the Collateral in such order as they shall determine in their sole and absolute discretion.  Any Secured Party may file a separate action or actions against any Grantor, whether action is brought or prosecuted with respect to any other security or against any other Person, or whether any other Person is joined in any such action or actions.  Each Grantor agrees that any Secured Party and any other Grantor may deal with each other in connection with the Secured Obligations or otherwise, or alter any contracts or agreements now or hereafter existing between any of them, in any manner whatsoever, all without in any way altering or affecting the obligations of such Grantor under the Financing Agreements.  Each Grantor expressly waives any and all defenses now or hereafter arising or asserted by reason of (a) any disability or other defense of any other Grantor or any other Secured Party with respect to any Secured Obligations, (b) the unenforceability or invalidity as to any other Grantor or any other Person of the Secured Obligations, (c) the unenforceability or invalidity of any security or guaranty for the Secured Obligations or the lack of perfection or continuing perfection or failure of priority of any security for the Secured Obligations, (d) the cessation for any cause whatsoever of the liability of any Grantor or any other Person (other than by reason of the full payment and performance of all Secured Obligations), (e) to the extent permitted by Law, any failure of any Secured Party to give notice of sale or other disposition to any Grantor or any defect in any notice that may be given in connection with any sale or disposition, (f) to the extent permitted by Law, any failure of any Secured Party to comply with applicable Laws in connection with the sale or other disposition of any Collateral or other security for any Secured Obligation, including without limitation any failure of any Secured Party
 
 
12
 
 
to conduct a commercially reasonable sale or other disposition of any Collateral or other security for any obligation, (g) any act or omission of any Secured Party or others that directly or indirectly results in or aids the discharge or release of any Grantor or any other Person or the Secured Obligations or any other security or guaranty therefor by operation of Law or otherwise, (h) any Law which provides that the obligation of a surety or guarantor must neither be larger in amount nor in other respects more burdensome than that of the principal or which reduces a suretys or guarantors obligation in proportion to the principal obligation, (i) any failure of any Secured Party to file or enforce a claim in any bankruptcy or other proceeding with respect to any other Grantor, (j) the election by any Secured Party, in any bankruptcy proceeding of any other Grantor, of the application or non-application of Section 1111(b)(2) of the United States Bankruptcy Code, (k) any extension of credit or the grant of any Lien under Section 364 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in connection with the bankruptcy of any other Grantor, (1) any use of cash collateral under Section 363 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, or (m) any agreement or stipulation with any other Grantor with respect to the provision of adequate protection in any bankruptcy proceeding of any Person.
(g)           in the event that all or any part of the Secured Obligations at any time are secured by any one or more deeds of trust or mortgages creating or granting liens on any interests in real property, each Grantor authorizes any Secured Party, upon the occurrence of and during the continuance of any Default or Event of Default, at their sole option, without notice or demand and without affecting any Secured Obligations or the validity or enforceability of any Liens of any Secured Party on any Collateral, to foreclose any or all of such deeds of trust or mortgages by judicial or nonjudicial sale.  Each Grantor expressly waives any defenses to the enforcement of the Financing Agreements or any Liens created or granted under the Financing Agreements or to the recovery by any Secured Party against any other Grantor or any guarantor or any other Person liable therefor of any deficiency after a judicial or nonjudicial foreclosure or sale, even though such a foreclosure or sale may impair the subrogation rights of a Grantor and may preclude Grantor from obtaining reimbursement or contribution from any Grantor.
(h)           To the extent that any Collateral pledged by a Grantor is sold hereunder and applied as payment of such Grantors obligations under its Guaranty of the Secured Obligations, such Grantors rights of subrogation shall be as set forth in such Guaranty.
Section 13.1                      .
Consent to Jurisdiction; Service of Process; Judgment Currency; Waiver of Jury Trial
(a)           Each Grantor irrevocably submits to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any New York State or federal court sitting in New York City, over any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement.  To the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable Law, each Grantor irrevocably waives and agrees not to assert, by way of motion, as a defense or otherwise, any claim that it is not subject to the jurisdiction of any such court, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court and any claim that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
in personam
in personam
 
 
13
 
 
(b)           Each Grantor agrees, to the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable Law, that a final judgment in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in paragraph (a) of this brought in any such court shall be conclusive and binding upon such party, subject to rights of appeal and may be enforced in the courts of the United States of America or the State of New York (or any other courts to the jurisdiction of which such party is or may be subject) by a suit upon such judgment.
Section 13.1
(c)           Each Grantor consents to process being served in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in paragraph (a) of this in accordance with or to any agent for service of process appointed pursuant to the provisions of .  Each Grantor agrees that such service upon receipt (i) shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process upon it in any such suit, action or proceeding and (ii) shall, to the full extent permitted by Law, be taken and held to be valid personal service upon and personal delivery to such party.  Notices hereunder shall be conclusively presumed received as evidenced by a delivery receipt furnished by the United States Postal Service or any reputable commercial delivery service.
Section 13.1
Section 11(c)
Section 13.2
(d)           Nothing in this shall affect the right of the Administrative Agent to serve process in any manner permitted by Law, or limit any right that the Administrative Agent may have to bring proceedings against such Grantor in the courts of any appropriate jurisdiction or to enforce in any lawful manner a judgment obtained in one jurisdiction in any other jurisdiction.
Section 13.1
(e)           Any payment on account of an amount that is payable hereunder in United States Dollars which is made to or for the account of the Administrative Agent in currency of any other jurisdiction, or in the lawful currency of any other country, whether as a result of any judgment or order or the enforcement thereof or the realization of any security or the liquidation of such party, shall constitute a discharge of such partys obligation under this Agreement only to the extent of the amount of United States Dollars which the Administrative Agent could purchase in the foreign exchange markets with the amount of the currency of such other jurisdiction, or other currency, as the case may be, in accordance with normal banking procedures at the rate of exchange prevailing on the business day following receipt of the payment first referred to above.  If the amount of United States Dollars that could be so purchased is less than the amount of United States Dollars originally due to the Administrative Agent, each Grantor agrees, to the full extent permitted by Law, to indemnify and save harmless such holder from and against all loss or damage arising out of or as a result of such deficiency.  This indemnity shall, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, constitute an obligation separate and independent from the other obligations contained in this Agreement, shall give rise to a separate and independent cause of action, shall apply irrespective of any indulgence granted by the Administrative Agent from time to time and, shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any judgment or order for a liquidated sum in respect of an amount due hereunder or under any judgment or order.
(f)           Each Grantor waives trial by jury in any action brought on or with respect to this Agreement or any other document executed in connection herewith or therewith.
          Each Grantor hereby irrevocably designates, appoints and empowers DeVry, and successors as the designee, appointee and agent of such Grantor to receive, accept and acknowledge, for and on behalf of such Grantor and its properties, service of any and all legal process, summons, notices and documents which may be served in such action, suit or proceeding relating to this Agreement in any Federal or New York State court sitting in New York City, which service may be made on any such designee, appointee and agent in accordance with legal
Section
13
.
2
Service of Process Upon Agent
.
 
 
14
 
 
 
procedures prescribed for such courts.  Each Grantor agrees to take any and all action necessary to continue such designation in full force and effect and should such designee, appointee and agent become unavailable for this purpose for any reason, such Grantor will forthwith irrevocably designate a new designee, appointee and agent, which shall irrevocably agree to act as such, with the powers and for purposes specified in this .  Each Grantor further irrevocably consents and agrees to service of any and all legal process, summons, notices and documents out of any of the aforesaid courts in any such action, suit or proceeding relating to this Agreement delivered to such Grantor in accordance with this or to its then designee, appointee or agent for service.  If service is made upon such designee, appointee and agent, a copy of such process, summons, notice or document shall also be provided to such Grantor in accordance with ; provided that failure of such holder to provide such copy to such Grantor shall not impair or affect in any way the validity of such service or any judgment rendered in such action or proceedings.  Each Grantor agrees that service upon such Grantor or any such designee, appointee and agent as provided for herein shall constitute valid and effective personal service upon such Grantor with respect to matters contemplated in this and that the failure of any such designee, appointee and agent to give any notice of such service to such Grantor shall not impair or affect in any way the validity of such service or any judgment rendered in any action or proceeding based thereon.  Nothing herein shall, or shall be construed so as to, limit the right of the Administrative Agent to bring actions, suits or proceedings with respect to the obligations and liabilities of any Grantor under, or any other matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment rendered in any such action, suit or proceeding, in the courts of whatever jurisdiction in which the offices of the Administrative Agent may be located or assets of any Grantor may be found or as otherwise shall to the Administrative Agent seem appropriate, or to affect the right to service of process in any jurisdiction in any other manner permitted by Law.
Section 13.2
Section 13.2
Section 11(c)
Section 13.2
 
 
 
 
15
 
, the parties hereto have caused this Pledge Agreement to be duty executed as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
DEVRY INC.
GLOBAL EDUCATION INTERNATIONAL, INC.
DEVRY UNIVERSITY, INC.
ROSS HEALTH SERVICES, INC. (f/k/a Dominica
Management Inc.)
ROSS UNIVERSITY SERVICES, INC.
INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION HOLDINGS, INC.
ROSS UNIVERSITY MANAGEMENT, INC.
CHAMBERLAIN COLLEGE OF NURSING AND
HEALTH SCIENCES, INC.
U.S. EDUCATION CORPORATION
EDCOA, INC.
APOLLO COLLEGE, INC.
By:  _________________________________________ 
Name:
Title:
 
 
 
On this _____ day of ____________, 2011, before me personally appeared _________________. who, being by me duly sworn did depose and say that he/she resides at ________________________; that he/she is ______________ of ____________________, the corporations described in and which executed the above instrument and that he/she executed this instrument on behalf of said corporation and that he/she had authority to do so.
 
 
 
_________________________________________ 
                                   NOTARY PUBLIC
 
 
 
 Accepted and Agreed:
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative
Agent, on behalf of itself and all Banks
under the Credit Agreement
By:  _______________________________________ 
Name:
Title:
 
 
 
On this _____ day of ____________, 2011, before me personally appeared _________________. who, being by me duly sworn did depose and say that he/she resides at ________________________; that he/she is ______________ of ____________________, the corporation described in and which executed the above instrument and that he/she executed this instrument on behalf of said corporation and that he/she had authority to do so.
 
_________________________________________ 
                                   NOTARY PUBLIC
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
This PLEDGE AGREEMENT JOINDER dated as of ________, _____ (the or this ) is entered into by the undersigned , a corporation (a ), to amend the definition of Grantor as set forth in Pledge Agreement dated as of May 10, 2011 (the ).  Terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Pledge Agreement.
Joinder
Grantor
Pledge Agreement
A.           The Grantor, is presently a Subsidiary of [DeVry Inc., a Delaware corporation, a Delaware corporation () or [Insert the applicable Designated Borrower] (_______)].
DeVry
B.           Pursuant to the terms of that certain Credit Agreement dated as of May 10, 2011 (as amended, restated, superseded or otherwise modified from time to time, the ) among the Obligors, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, and the banks and other lenders or institutions from time to time party thereto (the ), the Banks are extending credit to the Obligors on the terms provided therein.  The obligations of DeVry under the Credit Agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by certain Subsidiaries of DeVry which are organized under the laws of a jurisdiction within the United States (the ), and the obligations of each Designated Borrower under the Credit Agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by DeVry, by the U.S.  Subsidiaries and by certain direct and indirect Subsidiaries of such Designated Borrower which are organized under the laws of a jurisdiction located outside the United States (the ).  Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
Banks
U.S. Subsidiaries
Offshore Subsidiaries
C.           As a condition to the extension of financial accommodations to be given under the Credit Agreement by the Banks, the Banks required that the Obligors and the other Grantors and the Administrative Agent enter into the Pledge Agreement to secure the obligations of each Grantor in respect of the Financing Agreements, as otherwise more particularly set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency whereof are hereby acknowledged, the Grantor does hereby covenant and agree, as follows:
The Grantor desires to amend the definition of Grantor (as the same may have been heretofore amended) set forth in the Pledge Agreement attached hereto so that at all times from and after the date hereof, the Grantor shall pledge Collateral for the Secured Obligations under the Pledge Agreement to the extent and in the manner set forth therein.  The Grantor does hereby pledges, charges, assigns, transfers and sets over to the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Secured Parties, and hereby pledges, charges, assigns, transfers and grants to the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Secured Parties, a continuing security interest in all of such Grantors interest and property rights, whether now existing or hereafter acquired or arising, in and to the property described on to this Joinder.  [Specify whether DeVry and/or the applicable Designated Borrowers obligations are to be secured.]
Exhibit A
The undersigned is the duly elected ___________________ of the Grantor and is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Joinder.  The execution by the undersigned of this Joinder shall evidence its consent to and acknowledgment and approval of the terms set forth herein and in the Pledge Agreement by such execution the Grantor shall be deemed to have made the representations and warranties set forth in Section 3 of the Pledge Agreement in favor of the Administrative Agent and Secured Parties as of the date of this Joinder.
 
 
 
 
 
Upon execution of this Joinder, the Pledge Agreement shall be deemed to be amended as set forth above.  Except as amended herein, the terms and provisions of the Pledge Agreement are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved in all respects.
[At time of execution this form of Joinder shall be revised and/or shall contain such additional terms or provisions as may be deemed acceptable by the Administrative Agent, provided that such terms and provisions shall apply to all Secured Obligations and all Secured Parties equally and ratably.]
Any and all notices, requests, certificates and other instruments (including the Notes) may refer to the Pledge Agreement without making specific reference to this Joinder, but nevertheless all such references shall be deemed to include this Joinder unless the context shall otherwise require.
[NAME OF GRANTOR]
 
 
 
By ___________________________ Its ___________________________
 
 
 
 
 
On this _____ day of _______________________, 20____, before me personally appeared ____________________________, who, being by me duly sworn did depose and say that he/she resides at ________________________ that he/she is ____________________ of ________________________, the corporation described in and which executed the above instrument and that he/she executed this instrument on behalf of said corporation and that he/she had authority to do so.
 
_________________________________________ 
                                   NOTARY PUBLIC
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
DOWNERS GROVE, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May 12, 2011--DeVry Inc. (NYSE:DV), a global provider of educational services, today announced that it has entered into a new revolving credit agreement. The amount of borrowing capacity available under the credit agreement is $400 million, with an option to request an increase of an additional $150 million, as needed, in the future. The agreement has a five year term ending May 2016.
 
The new credit agreement replaces DeVrys prior $175 million agreement that was set to expire in January 2012, which included Bank of America, Bank of Montreal, Northern Trust, and JP Morgan Chase as the lending group. The new credit agreement includes these existing lenders along with six other banks (PNC, US Bank, Fifth Third Bank, RBS Citizens, Associated Bank, and HSBC), with Bank of America serving as the administrative agent and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith as the lead arranger.
 
Borrowings under the credit agreement bear interest at LIBOR plus 175 basis points, although higher margins up to 250 basis points may apply based on the ratio of consolidated total debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization). The credit agreement contains customary affirmative, negative and financial maintenance covenants, representations, warranties, events of default and remedies upon default including acceleration, and borrowing conditions.
 
Currently, there are no outstanding borrowings under either the expiring or new credit agreements. Additional information is available in DeVrys current report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC today.
 
 
 
About DeVry Inc.
 
DeVry's purpose is to empower its students to achieve their educational and career goals. DeVry (NYSE: DV, member S&P 500 Index) is a global provider of educational services and the parent organization of Advanced Academics, Becker Professional Education, Carrington College, Carrington College California, Chamberlain College of Nursing, DeVry Brasil, DeVry University, and Ross University Schools of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine. These institutions offer a wide array of programs in business, healthcare and technology. DeVrys institutions serve students in secondary through postsecondary education and professionals in accounting and finance. For more information, please call 630.353.3800 or visit .
http://www.devryinc.com
 
Certain statements contained in this release concerning DeVry's future performance, including those statements concerning DeVry's expectations or plans, may constitute forward-looking statements subject to the Safe Harbor Provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as DeVry Inc. or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import. Actual results may differ materially from those projected or implied by these forward-looking statements. Potential risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ are described more fully in Item 1A, "Risk Factors," in DeVry's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending June 30, 2010 and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 25, 2010.
 
 
CONTACT:
 
DeVry Inc.
Investor Contact:
Joan Bates, (630) 353-3800
jbates@devry.com
 
or
 
Media Contact:
Larry Larsen, (312) 895-4717
llarsen@sardverb.com
 


