FILE:DV/DV-8K-20110125165142.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
______________
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report
(Date of earliest event reported)
January 25, 2011
______________
DEVRY INC
.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
______________
(630)
515-7700
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
______________
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On January 25, 2011, DeVry Inc. issued a press release announcing its fiscal 2011 second quarter financial results.  The full text of that press release is included in Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K.
Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this Form 8-K and related press release, including those that affect DeVrys expectations or plans, may constitute forward-looking statements subject to the Safe Harbor Provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as DeVry Inc. or its management anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, forecasts, foresees, intends, plans or other words or phrases of similar import.
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause DeVrys actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied by these forward-looking statements.  Additional information regarding factors that could cause results to differ can be found in DeVrys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of January 25, 2011, and DeVry assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
DeVry Inc. Announces Second-Quarter 2011 Results
DOWNERS GROVE, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--January 25, 2011--DeVry Inc. (NYSE:DV), a global provider of educational services, today reported results for its fiscal 2011 second-quarter ended Dec. 31, 2010. DeVrys continued execution of its diversification strategy and focus on academic quality produced the following financial results:
Three Months Ended Dec. 31, 2010:
Revenues increased 17 percent to $551 million
Net income increased 22 percent to $89 million
Diluted earnings per share increased 25 percent to $1.25
Six Months Ended Dec. 31, 2010:
Revenues rose 19 percent to $1,073 million
Net income increased 28 percent to $162 million
Diluted earnings per share increased 30 percent to $2.28
During the first half of this fiscal year, we benefitted from our position as a diversified provider of quality education, said Daniel Hamburger, DeVrys president and chief executive officer. We continue to invest in new programs that lead to strong career outcomes and innovative student services, especially to serve those who may not otherwise have access to higher education. We remain actively engaged in the ongoing regulatory discussions and support high standards for all of sectors of higher education.
Business Highlights
Business, Technology, and Management Segment
DeVry University
As reported in December, DeVry Universitys new undergraduate enrollment decreased 4.7 percent and total undergraduate enrollment rose 14.9 percent in the fall. DeVry continues to make strategic investments in its operations as it has rolled out its Student Central program across all of its campuses, helping increase student retention.
During the quarter, DeVry University was one of eight highly productive institutions profiled in a report by McKinsey & Company on productivity in higher education. The report is available at the following link: .
http://www.mckinsey.com/clientservice/Social_Sector/our_practices/Education.aspx
At DeVry Universitys Keller Graduate School of Management, the number of coursetakers in November 2010 increased 11.9 percent. In January, the university launched a campaign featuring the first combined DeVry University-Keller Graduate School of Management brand messaging. The campaign is airing on primetime television and can be viewed at .
http://www.devryinc.com/resources/media/DVU-LNSW.wmv
Medical and Healthcare Segment
Ross University
In November, Ross University School of Medicine secured licensing approval for its Freeport, Grand Bahama, location from the Medical Board of California. Ross planned to enroll new students in Freeport given capacity constraints at its Dominica campus. It has been Ross understanding that medical students who attend the Freeport location would not be eligible to receive Title IV financial aid while in Freeport, but would be eligible to receive financial aid once they moved beyond their semesters in Freeport. However, the Department of Education (ED) recently raised questions that could impact the overall financial aid eligibility for new students who attend Freeport. While Ross is working through this issue with ED, it is also in the process of evaluating how best to leverage its Freeport location as part of its overall expansion strategy. Ross continues to invest in its Dominica facilities, programs and student services to meet the strong demand for its medical program.
According to data obtained from the Association of American Medical Colleges and Ross University School of Medicine, in 2010, Ross University graduated more Black or African-American physicians than any U.S. medical school, including the historically black colleges and universities, as shown in Chart 2 on page 7.
Chamberlain College of Nursing
Chamberlain continues to benefit from the strong demand for nursing professionals, while moving forward on its geographic expansion strategy. Its Master of Science in Nursing degree program experienced strong growth in the recent term highlighting the overwhelming need for nursing professionals with advanced degrees. As previously reported, Chamberlain new student enrollment in the fall increased 42 percent and total students increased more than 58 percent.
Pending approvals, Chamberlain expects to open its new locations in Houston and Miramar, Fla., in the coming months. The Houston campus will be a co-location with DeVry University and the Miramar location will be the first ever tri-location with Chamberlain, DeVry University and a clinical location for Ross University. The new Miramar clinical facility replaces Ross current clinical location in Miami.
Carrington Colleges Group
Carrington continues to focus on improving efficiencies and investing in new programs and locations for students. Carrington College Californias co-location with DeVry University in Pomona, Calif., recently began enrolling students in programs for medical assisting, medical billing and coding, pharmacy technology, and veterinary technology.
Professional Education Segment
Becker Professional Education
Beckers revenues grew 26 percent during the quarter. Results were driven by strong demand for its 2011 CPA exam preparation product. Becker anticipates more normalized demand for its CPA line of products in the coming quarters.
Recently the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants released its 2009 Elijah Watt Sells award winners, which honors the candidates with the highest scores on the CPA exam. Of the candidates with the 15 highest scores, 14 prepared for the exam using Beckers industry-leading CPA review materials.
Other Educational Services Segment
DeVry Brasil
DeVry Brasil continues to grow through investments in programs, services and facilities. Ruy Barbosa is constructing a new classroom building that will further enhance its healthcare program offerings. At the same time, upgrades to Fanors Fortaleza campus are progressing to improve operations. Leveraging best practices from DeVry University, DeVry Brasil introduced its own version of the Student Central program, called CASA (Coordenadoria de Apoio e Suporte ao Aluno), across its campuses.
Balance Sheet/Cash Flow
For the first half of fiscal 2011, DeVry generated $274 million of operating cash flow, driven by the continuation of strong operating results and working capital management. As of Dec. 31, 2010, cash, marketable securities and investment balances totaled $462 million and there were no outstanding borrowings.
Share Repurchase Plan
DeVry completed its fourth share repurchase program and began repurchasing shares under its fifth program, which was authorized in November 2010. During the quarter, a total of 860,600 shares were repurchased under both programs for approximately $39.4 million, at an average cost of $45.80 per share.
Conclusion
Despite some near-term enrollment challenges that we are actively managing, we executed well against our strategy in the first half of fiscal 2011, said Hamburger. I am confident our diversification strategy will serve us well in the second half of the year and beyond, as we continue to help our students achieve their career aspirations.
Conference Call and Webcast Information
DeVry will host a conference call on Jan. 25, 2011, at 3:30 p.m. Central Standard Time (4:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time) to discuss its fiscal 2011 second-quarter results. The conference call will be led by Daniel Hamburger, president and chief executive officer, and Rick Gunst, chief financial officer.
For those wishing to participate by telephone, dial (866) 713-8567 (domestic) or (617) 597-5326 (international). Use passcode 41202529 or say DeVry Call. DeVry will also broadcast the conference call live via the Internet. Interested parties may access the webcast through the Investor Relations section of the company's web site, or . (Because of its length, this URL may need to be copied and pasted into your Internet browsers address field. Remove the extra space if one exists.) Please access the web site at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the call to register, download and install any necessary audio software.
http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?p=irol-eventDetails&c=93880&eventID=3270234
DeVry will archive a telephone replay of the call until Feb. 8, 2011. To access the replay, dial (888) 286-8010 (domestic) or (617) 801-6888 (international), passcode: 97782575. To access the webcast replay, please visit .
http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?p=irol-eventDetails&c=93880&eventID=3270234
About DeVry Inc.
DeVry's purpose is to empower its students to achieve their educational and career goals. DeVry (NYSE: DV, member S&P 500 Index) is a global provider of educational services and the parent organization of Advanced Academics, Becker Professional Education, Carrington College, Carrington College California, Chamberlain College of Nursing, DeVry Brasil, DeVry University, and Ross University Schools of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine. These institutions offer a wide array of programs in business, healthcare and technology. DeVrys institutions serve students in secondary through postsecondary education and professionals in accounting and finance. For more information, please call 630.353.3800 or visit .
http://www.devryinc.com
Certain statements contained in this release concerning DeVry's future performance, including those statements concerning DeVry's expectations or plans, may constitute forward-looking statements subject to the Safe Harbor Provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as DeVry Inc. or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import. Actual results may differ materially from those projected or implied by these forward-looking statements. Potential risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ are described more fully in Item 1A, "Risk Factors," in DeVry's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending June 30, 2010 and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 25, 2010.
Chart 2: 2010 Black or African-American Medical School Graduates
In 2010, Ross University graduated more Black or African-American physicians than any medical U.S. medical school.
CONTACT: DeVry Inc. Investor Contact: Joan Bates, (630) 353-3800 or Media Contact: Larry Larsen, (312) 895-4717
jbates@devry.com
llarsen@sardverb.com


