FILE:DV/DV-8K-20110504170106.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
______________
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report
(Date of earliest event reported)
May 4, 2011
______________
DEVRY INC
.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
______________
(630)
515-7700
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
______________
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On May 4, 2011, DeVry Inc. (DeVry) announced that its Becker Professional Education (Becker) subsidiary had completed the acquisition Accountancy Tuition Centre International (ATC), a leading provider of professional accounting and finance training with centers in Central and Eastern Europe as well as Central Asia.
ATC provides training for professional designations such as ACCA (Association of Chartered Certified Accountants), CIMA (Chartered Institute of Management Accountants) and the Diploma in International Financial Reporting.  The acquisition expands Beckers global accounting training platform, allowing it to further leverage its extensive relationships with global accounting firms.  Becker currently serves the Big 4 global accounting firms, and has relationships with 98 of the top 100 accounting firms in the US.
Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this Form 8-K and related press release, including those that affect DeVrys expectations or plans, may constitute forward-looking statements subject to the Safe Harbor Provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as DeVry Inc. or its management anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, forecasts, foresees, intends, plans or other words or phrases of similar import.
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause DeVrys actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied by these forward-looking statements.  Additional information regarding factors that could cause results to differ can be found in DeVrys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of May 4, 2011, and DeVry assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Becker Professional Education Acquires ATC International
Acquisition expands Beckers global reach in accounting field
DOWNERS GROVE, Ill. & LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May 4, 2011--Becker Professional Education, a global leader in professional education and a part of DeVry Inc. (NYSE:DV), today announced the acquisition of ATC International, a leading provider of professional accounting and finance training with centers in Central and Eastern Europe as well as Central Asia. ATC International provides training for professional designations such as ACCA (Association of Chartered Certified Accountants), CIMA (Chartered Institute of Management Accountants) and the Diploma in International Financial Reporting. The acquisition expands Beckers global accounting training platform, allowing it to further leverage its extensive relationships with global accounting firms. Becker currently serves the Big 4 global accounting firms, and has relationships with 98 of the top 100 accounting firms in the US.
"This acquisition gives Becker a leading position to serve the 400,000 plus candidates for ACCA membership around the world and strategically complements our current market of 90,000 prospective US CPA candidates, said John Roselli, president of Becker Professional Education. ATC International has unrivalled experience in the markets they serve and weve seen firsthand the quality that they provide their students through our partnership with them. ATC International has high standing with ACCA that will help us better support candidates.
Since the fall 2010, Becker and ATC International have operated a partnership which allowed ATC International to deliver Becker Professional Education courses and preparation materials to students in Central and Eastern Europe and Central Asia.
We are excited to join the Becker family, said Richard Glover, chief executive officer of ATC International. Becker and ATC International share a similar culture and philosophy of preparing our students for exams that are essential for their success in a global business climate.
About Becker Professional Education
Becker Professional Education, a part of DeVry Inc. (NYSE: DV), is a global leader in professional education serving the accounting, finance and project management professions. Nearly half a million professionals have advanced their careers through its CPA Exam Review, Review for the CFA Exams, PMP Exam Review and Continuing Professional Education courses. Throughout its more than 50 year history, Becker has earned a strong track record of student success through world-class teaching, curriculum and learning tools that enable its students to develop the knowledge and performance skills necessary to stay ahead in an ever-changing business world. For more about Becker Professional Education, please visit .
www.becker.com
About ATC International
Established in 1993, ATC International is a provider of professional finance and accounting training, working in partnership with clients and students alike so they can acquire the skills and knowledge they need to succeed and develop in todays business climate. Thousands of students have qualified as ACCA (Association of Chartered Certified Accountants) members through ATC Internationals Platinum and Gold ALP training centres in Central and Eastern Europe, as well as in Central Asia. In addition, ATC International has helped many students become CIMA (Chartered Institute of Management Accountants) members, and many more professionals have benefitted from the companys specialist expertise in International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). ATC International has been awarded ACCA Approved Learning Partner - content Gold Status for materials for the Diploma in International Financial Reporting (DipIFR) and also produces a full suite of material for the ACCA Professional Exams both of which are used by many colleges and students globally. For more information, please visit
www.atc-global.com
CONTACT: Media Contacts: Becker Professional Education Sue Burns, (630) 353-3652 or ATC International George Wallace, +44 7740 101802
sburns@becker.com
george.wallace@atc-global.com


