FILE:DV/DV-8K-20120126162428.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
______________
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report
(Date of earliest event reported)
January 26, 2012
______________
DEVRY INC
.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
______________
(630)
515-7700
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
______________
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On January 26, 2012, DeVry Inc. issued a press release announcing its fiscal 2012 second quarter financial results.  The full text of that press release is included in Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K.
Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this Form 8-K and related press release, including those that affect DeVrys expectations or plans, may constitute forward-looking statements subject to the Safe Harbor Provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as DeVry Inc. or its management anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, forecasts, foresees, intends, plans or other words or phrases of similar import.
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause DeVrys actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied by these forward-looking statements.  Additional information regarding factors that could cause results to differ can be found in DeVrys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 and quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2011.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of January 26, 2012, and DeVry assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
DeVry Inc. Announces Second-Quarter 2012 Results
DOWNERS GROVE, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--January 26, 2012--DeVry Inc. (NYSE:DV), a global provider of educational services, today reported financial results for its fiscal 2012 second-quarter ended Dec. 31, 2011. These results contain two discrete items: non-cash goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $55.8 million after-tax, or $0.82 per share, for Carrington Colleges Group and a $2.2 million after-tax gain, or $0.03 per share, related to the sale of Beckers Stalla CFA review operations.
Significant accomplishments include:
Appointed Tim Wiggins as chief financial officer and treasurer
Named an official education partner of the U.S. Olympic Committee
Received approval from the Illinois Board of Higher Education (IBHE) for a Master of Science in Nursing Healthcare Policy specialty track at Chamberlain College of Nursing
Three Months Ended Dec. 31, 2011:
Revenues decreased 5.0 percent to $524 million
Reported net income declined to $9 million from $89 million last year, and net income excluding discrete items was $62 million, down 30 percent
Reported diluted earnings per share declined to $0.13 from $1.25 per share last year, and earnings per share excluding discrete items was $0.92 per share, down 26 percent
Six Months Ended Dec. 31, 2011:
Revenues declined 2.8 percent to $1,043 million
Reported net income declined to $66 million from $162 million last year, and net income excluding discrete items was $120 million, down 26 percent
Reported diluted earnings per share declined to $0.97 from $2.28 per share last year, and earnings per share excluding discrete items was $1.74 per share, down 24 percent
We are disappointed with these results, said Daniel Hamburger, DeVrys president and chief executive officer. We are focused on improving our performance by implementing initiatives that will drive revenue growth, while controlling costs. Our performance improvement plan is aimed at increasing new student enrollments, and generating operating efficiencies to reduce expenses, while balancing the necessary investments in academic quality and student services for longer-term growth.
DeVrys performance improvement plan focuses on five key initiatives:
1. Managing costs by matching resources to meet students needs
2. Improving the student recruiting process
3. Enhancing awareness to drive student interest in DeVrys career-oriented educational programs
4. Launching new programs and new locations; providing access to students wanting a career in high-growth industries
5. Strengthening DeVrys team through critical hires and ongoing training to best serve students
Organizational Highlights
During the quarter, DeVry Inc. was named an official education partner to the U.S. Olympic Committee. DeVry University and its Keller Graduate School of Management are providing higher education opportunities at undergraduate and graduate levels, including scholarships and a dedicated DeVry staff, for U.S. Olympic and Paralympic athletes and hopefuls through 2016.
Business, Technology and Management Segment
DeVry University
As reported in December, DeVry Universitys total undergraduate enrollment fell 12.8 percent in the fall and new undergraduate enrollment decreased 24.6 percent . At Keller Graduate School of Management, the number of coursetakers in November 2011 increased 0.3 percent.
Enrollment results were impacted by the change management associated with new regulations and persistent unemployment, which continued to affect consumer confidence.
Medical and Healthcare Segment
DeVry Medical International
Ross Universitys Schools of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine continue the expansion of their facilities and making investments in academic quality, such as simulation and other advanced student teaching techniques. The integration of American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine is progressing on track.
Chamberlain College of Nursing
Chamberlain continues to move forward on its geographic expansion strategy to meet the strong demand for nursing professionals. As previously reported, Chamberlain total student enrollment in the period increased more than 26 percent, while new student enrollment in the fall decreased 1.6 percent. During calendar 2012, Chamberlain plans to open new locations in Indianapolis, Atlanta and Cleveland, pending all necessary approvals.
Carrington Colleges Group
As reported in December, Carrington total student enrollment declined 28.4 percent and new students declined 33.0 percent for the fall period. The prolonged economic downturn, compounded by transitional issues from the Carrington name change and recent regulatory adjustments, have caused significant declines in new and total student enrollment in the first half of fiscal 2012, resulting in a lower estimated fair value for the institution. This lower valuation drove the non-cash goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges totaling $55.8 million after-tax noted earlier.
Carrington continues to execute on its turnaround plan focusing on improving its efforts to attract new students and increase brand awareness. Carrington opened a new location in the Dallas metro area and continues to focus on expanding its program offerings both onsite and online.
International, K-12, and Professional Education Segment
Becker Professional Education
During the quarter, Becker completed the sale of the Stalla CFA business. It also released its enhanced 2012 version of its CPA exam review product. Its recently acquired ATC International operation was granted Gold Approved Learning Partner  content (ALP-c) status by the Association of Certified Chartered Accountants (ACCA) for its 2012 ACCA study materials.
DeVry Brasil
DeVry Brasil continues to focus on the expansion of its locations and programs with the construction of a new Ruy Barbosa campus building in Salvador; a new campus in Sao Luis; and other campus renovations and investments in academic quality. DeVry Brasil recently applied and is awaiting approval to offer online degree programs in areas such as engineering, business administration and information technology.
Balance Sheet/Cash Flow
For the first half of fiscal 2012, DeVry generated $219 million of operating cash flow, with its operating performance augmented by strong working capital management. As of Dec. 31, 2011, cash, marketable securities and investment balances totaled $288 million and there were no outstanding borrowings.
Share Repurchase Plan
During the quarter, DeVry completed its sixth share repurchase program and commenced its seventh program, repurchasing approximately 1.25 million shares of its common stock at a cost of approximately $47.6 million, or $37.95 per share.
Conclusion
While we have challenges at DeVry University and Carrington, our diversification strategy is helping mitigate the impact as other institutions such as Ross, AUC, Chamberlain, Becker and DeVry Brasil continue to perform well, said Hamburger. As we go forward, we will focus on controlling the things we can control and manage our institutions efficiently. But one thing we will not do is sacrifice academic quality.
Conference Call and Webcast Information
DeVry will host a conference call on Jan. 26, 2012, at 3:30 p.m. Central Standard Time (4:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time) to discuss its fiscal 2012 second-quarter results. The conference call will be led by Daniel Hamburger, president and chief executive officer, Pat Unzicker, vice president and controller, and Rick Gunst, retiring chief financial officer. Tim Wiggins, recently appointed senior vice president and chief financial officer, will also participate on the call.
For those wishing to participate by telephone, dial 866-510-0707 (domestic) or 617-597-5376 (international). Use passcode 53574143 or say DeVry Call. DeVry Inc. will also broadcast the conference call live via the Internet. Interested parties may access the webcast through the Investor Relations section of the company's website, or .
http://www.media-server.com/m/p/7qxv5u8r
Please access the website at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the call to register, download and install any necessary audio software.
DeVry will archive a telephone replay of the call until Feb. 9, 11:59 p.m. To access the replay, dial 888-286-8010 (domestic) or 617-801-6888 (international), passcode 59483739. To access the webcast replay, please visit the company's website, or click on the following link: .
http://www.media-server.com/m/p/7qxv5u8r
About DeVry Inc.
DeVry's purpose is to empower its students to achieve their educational and career goals. DeVry (NYSE: DV, member S&P 500 Index) is a global provider of educational services and the parent organization of Advanced Academics, American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine, Becker Professional Education, Carrington College, Carrington College California, Chamberlain College of Nursing, DeVry Brasil, DeVry University, and Ross University Schools of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine. These institutions offer a wide array of programs in business, healthcare and technology. DeVrys institutions serve students in secondary through postsecondary education and professionals in accounting and finance. For more information, please call 630.353.3800 or visit .
http://www.devryinc.com
Certain statements contained in this release concerning DeVry's future performance, including those statements concerning DeVry's expectations or plans, may constitute forward-looking statements subject to the Safe Harbor Provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as DeVry Inc. or its management "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases of similar import. Actual results may differ materially from those projected or implied by these forward-looking statements. Potential risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ are described more fully in Item 1A, "Risk Factors," in DeVry's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending June 30, 2011 and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 26, 2011.
(in thousands, except per share data)
Selected Operating Data
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information and Supplemental Reconciliation Schedule
During the second quarter of fiscal year 2012, DeVry recorded impairment charges related to its Carrington Colleges reporting unit. Also, DeVry recorded a gain from the sale of Beckers Stalla CFA review operations. The following table illustrates the effects of the impairment charges and gain on sale of assets on DeVrys earnings. Management believes that the non-GAAP disclosure of net income and earnings per share excluding these discrete items provides investors with useful supplemental information regarding the underlying business trends and performance of DeVrys ongoing operations and is useful for period-over period comparisons of such operations given the discrete nature of the impairment charges and gain on the sale of assets. DeVry uses these supplemental financial measures internally in its management and budgeting processes. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, DeVrys reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. The following table reconciles these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP information (in thousands, except per share data):
Chart 1: Remaining DeVry Inc. Calendar 2012 Announcements & Events
CONTACT: DeVry Inc. Investor Contact: Joan Bates, (630) 353-3800 or Media Contact: Larry Larsen, (312) 895-4717
jbates@devry.com
llarsen@sardverb.com


