FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20030724153855.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS
 
 
None.
 
 
None.
 
 
 
ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
Pursuant to Exchange Act Release 47583, Certegy Inc. ("Certegy") is furnishing the following information and Exhibit pursuant to Items 9 and 12 of Form 8-K.
 
On July 24, 2003, Certegy issued a press release to announce its financial results for the second quarter of 2003. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information in this Report, including the Exhibit attached hereto, is furnished solely pursuant to Items 9 and 12 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 Certegy Inc. (NYSE:CEY) today reported second quarter 2003 diluted earnings per share of $0.35 on revenue of $247.4 million, operating income of $37.4 million and net income of $23.0 million.
Alpharetta, GA, July 24, 2003
 
"The second quarter results were in line with our expectations. Our domestic and international businesses, outside of South America, continue to generate strong growth," stated Lee Kennedy, president, chairman and chief executive officer of Certegy. "The consolidated growth rates reflect the impact of previously reported customer deconversions, and will continue to do so through the first quarter of next year. Soft domestic consumer spending, which primarily impacts our check business, also affected our second quarter growth."
 
SECOND QUARTER FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
Highlights of the 2003 second quarter results as compared to 2002, are as follows:
 
 
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
 
Card Services generated revenue of $160.3 million in the second quarter of 2003, or 7.1% below the 2002 quarter. Strong revenue growth of 9.3% in North American card issuing and double-digit growth in the U.K. and Australian operations was offset by declines in South American card issuing revenue and domestic merchant processing revenue. Card Services' operating income of $31.9 million increased 2.3% compared to the prior-year quarter. Strong card issuing revenue growth outside South America and efficiency gains drove a 180 basis point improvement in Card Services' margin.
 
Check Services generated revenue of $87.1 million in the second quarter of 2003, an increase of 5.1% over the 2002 quarter. Weakness in domestic retail sales continues to impact revenue growth. Check Services' operating income of $9.0 million declined by $2.2 million compared to the corresponding 2002 quarter due to $0.6 million in incremental check cashing start-up costs, the write-off of a $0.9 million receivable and a $0.7 million, or approximately 6.2%, decline in core business profitability caused by soft retail sales volume.
 
Corporate expense of $3.5 million decreased by $0.6 million compared to the 2002 second quarter. The decrease is due to the timing of certain administrative costs and the $0.4 million market value recovery of collateral assignments in life insurance policies.
 
 
BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS
 
Certegy's global card base totaled 45.1 million at quarter-end. Domestic card issuing transaction volumes increased by 9.8% over the prior-year quarter, driven primarily by 18.2% growth in debit card transactions. The company recently expanded its product offering to include Visa branded pre-paid debit cards and is scheduled to introduce teen and payroll cards in August. This new product launch is consistent with the Company's strategy to provide the most comprehensive range of products and services to its customer base of more than 6,000 financial institutions.
 
Sales of Certegy's PayNet check products continue to gain traction. Recent signings for electronic check/ACH services for online and telephone orders include Walmart.com and Shop at Home Network.
 
 
THIRD QUARTER 2003 ACCOUNTING CHANGE
 
In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51" ("FIN 46"). While we continue to evaluate the potential impact, we currently estimate the adoption of FIN 46 will result in a cumulative effect of accounting change expense of approximately $0.02 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2003. FIN 46 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's ongoing financial results. Item 11 of the supplemental information attached to this press release provides further detail.
 
 
OUTLOOK
 
Certegy reiterated its earnings per diluted share guidance of $1.52 to $1.55, excluding year-to-date charges of $0.12 per diluted share and the third quarter $0.02 per diluted share cumulative effect of accounting change. Certegy also provided third quarter 2003 diluted earnings per share guidance of $0.38 to $0.40, excluding the cumulative effect of accounting change.
 
 
TELECONFERENCE
 
Management will host a teleconference to discuss second quarter earnings on Thursday, July 24, 2003, at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio Webcast will be available at Please be advised that Microsoft's Windows Media Player
www.certegy.com
.
TM
must be downloaded prior to accessing the presentation. It can be downloaded from . A replay of the Webcast will be available in the Investor Center section of the website one hour after the call ends through 10:00 p.m. Eastern time August 7, 2003.
www.microsoft.com/windows/mediaplayer
 
 
The statements in this release include forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, assumptions, estimates, and projections about Certegy and our industry. They are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of Certegy's control, that may cause actual results to differ significantly from what is expressed in those statements. The factors that could, either individually or in the aggregate, affect our performance include the following, which are described in greater detail in the section entitled "Certain Factors Affecting Forward-Looking Statements" in our 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC: Our ability to maintain or improve our competitive positions against current and potential competitors; the level of economic growth or other factors affecting demand for our products and services; loss of key customer contracts or strategic relationships; changes in regulation or industry standards applicable to our businesses or those of our customers; risks associated with investments and operations in foreign countries, including exchange rate fluctuations and local political, social, and economic factors, and those other risks listed in the above-referenced section of our Form 10-K.
 
 
Certegy (NYSE:CEY) provides credit and debit card processing, check risk management and check cashing services, and merchant processing to over 6,000 financial institutions, 117,000 retailers and 100 million consumers worldwide. Headquartered in Alpharetta, Georgia, Certegy maintains a strong global presence with operations in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Ireland, France, Chile, Brazil, Australia and New Zealand. As a leading payment services provider, Certegy offers a comprehensive range of transaction processing services, check risk management solutions and integrated customer support programs that facilitate the exchange of business and consumer payments. Certegy generated $1.0 billion in revenue in 2002. For more information on Certegy, please visit .
www.certegy.com
 
 
 
 
Revenues and operating income of the Company's reportable segments for the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002 are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revenues and operating income of the Company's reportable segments for the six months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002 are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In 2002, the Company adopted Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 01-14 ("EITF 01-14"), "Income Statement Characterization of Reimbursements Received for 'Out-of-Pocket' Expenses Incurred," which required that reimbursements received for out-of-pocket expenses be reclassified as revenues. In 2002, the Company disclosed the quarterly amounts reclassified to revenues as required by the adoption of EITF 01-14 and certain other reclassifications, including service fees from collection activities related to our check guarantee business. Prior to the adoption of EITF 01-14, service fees were netted against collection expense in the consolidated statement of income. These fees are included in product and service fees above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other charges by segment are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. Merchant volumes in dollars and number of transactions are as follows:
 
 
9. Depreciation and amortization by segment is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
10. Capital expenditures and acquisitions are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
11. Third Quarter 2003 Accounting Change
 
FASB Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51" ("FIN 46"), which was effective July 1, 2003, impacts the accounting for synthetic leases. This new rule requires companies to consolidate and depreciate the leased property, as well as record the underlying debt obligation. While we continue to evaluate the potential impact of this accounting change, we currently estimate the adoption of FIN 46 will result in a cumulative effect of accounting change expense of approximately $0.02 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2003. This will be reported, as required, below EPS before accounting changes. FIN 46 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's ongoing financial results, as more fully described in our First Quarter 2003 Form 10-Q.
 
 


