FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20031023092415.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
None.
 
 
None.
 
 
 
 
On October 23, 2003, Certegy Inc. ("Certegy") issued a press release to announce its financial results for the third quarter of 2003. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The press release presents certain operating income and corporate expense measures that exclude charges in 2002 for asset impairment in our Brazilian card operation, litigation settlement, severance and market value loss on life insurance policies collaterally assigned to Certegy. The press release also presents an earnings per share projection that excludes charges in 2003 related to contract early termination costs and other net charges primarily related to downsizing our Brazilian card operation. The press release reconciles these measures to the most directly comparable operating income and earnings per share measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.
 
Management believes that presentation of these measures excluding the described charges is useful because it allows investors and management to evaluate and compare Certegy's core operating results from ongoing operations from period to period in a more meaningful and consistent manner than relying exclusively on GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP financial measures however should not be considered in isolation or as an alternative to financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.
 
As used herein, "GAAP" refers to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
 
The information in this Report, including the Exhibit attached hereto, is furnished solely pursuant to Item 12 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated:    October 23, 2003
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
, GA, October 23, 2003  Certegy Inc. (NYSE:CEY) today reported third quarter 2003 diluted earnings per share of $0.40 on revenue of $255.8 million, operating income of $43.5 million and net income of $26.3 million.
ALPHARETTA
 
"We met our objectives for the quarter and are pleased with our overall results," stated Lee Kennedy, Certegy's chairman, president and CEO. "Consistent with prior quarters, our North American card business continues to produce strong revenue growth and operating margins. We are also encouraged by the recent modest improvement in retail sales, which drove higher check guarantee volume growth and improved profitability in our core check business."
 
THIRD QUARTER FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
Highlights of the 2003 third quarter results as compared to the prior year quarter are as follows:
 
 
Operating income in the third quarter of 2002 of $37.3 million included other charges of $9.4 million ($5.9 million after-tax) as described in note 2 to the accompanying quarterly income statement information. Excluding these charges from the 2002 third quarter results, operating income declined 6.7% and diluted earnings per share remained flat in the 2003 quarter.
 
Also during the quarter,
 
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
 
Card Services generated revenue of $164.0 million in the third quarter of 2003, or 2.1% below the 2002 quarter. Strong 15.6% revenue growth in the Company's North American card issuing operation was offset by declines in South American card issuing revenue and domestic merchant processing revenue. Card Services' operating income of $36.6 million increased $2.0 million, or 5.7%, compared to $34.7 million in the third quarter of 2002. The prior year quarter included a $4.2 million asset impairment charge related to the Company's Brazilian card operation. Excluding this charge, operating income declined 5.8%.
 
Check Services generated revenue of $91.7 million in the third quarter of 2003, an increase of 5.6% over the 2002 quarter driven by improved check guarantee volumes. Check Services' operating income of $11.9 million increased by $3.7 million, or 46.1%, compared to $8.1 million in the corresponding 2002 quarter. The prior year quarter included $4.0 million in litigation settlement costs. Excluding this charge, operating income declined 1.9%.
 
Corporate expense of $5.0 million decreased by $0.5 million compared to $5.5 million in the third quarter of 2002. The prior year quarter included approximately $1.2 million in severance and other charges. Excluding the prior year charges, corporate expense increased $0.7 million compared to the prior year quarter. Rising insurance and employee benefit expenses and the timing of certain administrative costs drove corporate expense higher than the earlier 2003 quarters.
 
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENTS
 
Certegy's global card base increased to 45.2 million at quarter-end. Domestic card issuing transaction volumes increased by 9.6% over the prior-year quarter, driven primarily by 18.3% growth in debit card transactions.
 
During the quarter, Certegy announced that Chartway Federal Credit Union had expanded its current credit card processing relationship to include debit card processing and e-banking services. The Company also finalized an agreement to process Visa and MasterCard transactions and personal loans for Krung Thai Card Public Company of Thailand ("KTC"). Certegy will process KTC's 750,000 credit card and loan accounts from its state-of-the art processing center located in Melbourne, Australia.
 
Certegy also announced plans to participate in the Visa POS Check Service as an acquiring processor and a third-party check authorization source.
 
DEFERRAL OF ACCOUNTING CHANGE
 
In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51" ("FIN 46"). On October 8, 2003, the FASB agreed to defer the effective date of FIN 46 to December 31, 2003. The previous rule required adoption as of July 1, 2003. The adoption of the new accounting standard is expected to result in a cumulative effect of accounting change expense of approximately $0.02 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2003, and an ongoing reduction in earnings per diluted share of approximately $0.01 per annum. This change is related to the accounting for the synthetic lease on the Company's facility located in St. Petersburg, Florida.
 
OUTLOOK
 
The Company expects full year 2003 diluted earnings per share of $1.52 to $1.55, excluding year-to-date charges described in note 2 to the accompanying nine-month income statement information of $0.12 per diluted share and the expected cumulative effect of the FIN 46 change of $0.02 per diluted share in the fourth quarter.
 
TELECONFERENCE
 
Management will host a teleconference to discuss third quarter earnings on Thursday, October 23, 2003, at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio Webcast will be available at www.certegy.com. Please be advised that Microsoft's Windows Media Player must be downloaded prior to accessing the presentation. It can be downloaded from www.microsoft.com/windows/mediaplayer. A replay of the Webcast will be available in the Investor Center section of the website after the call ends.
 
 
Certegy (NYSE:CEY) provides credit and debit processing, check risk management and check cashing services, merchant processing and e-banking services to over 6,000 financial institutions, 117,000 retailers and 100 million consumers worldwide. Headquartered in Alpharetta, Georgia, Certegy maintains a strong global presence with operations in the United States, United Kingdom, Ireland, France, Chile, Brazil, Australia and New Zealand. As a leading payment services provider, Certegy offers a comprehensive range of transaction processing services, check risk management solutions and integrated customer support programs that facilitate the exchange of business and consumer payments. Certegy generated over $1.0 billion in revenue in 2002. For more information on Certegy, please visit www.certegy.com.
 
 
The statements in this release include forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, assumptions, estimates, and projections about Certegy and our industry. They are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of Certegy's control, that may cause actual results to differ significantly from what is expressed in
 
those statements. The factors that could, either individually or in the aggregate, affect our performance include the following, which are described in greater detail in the section entitled "Risk Factors" in our Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on September 26, 2003 with the SEC: Our reliance on a small number of financial industries for the majority of our revenues; our reliance on key strategic relationships; the necessity to maintain qualifications set by bank card associations in order to continue to provide transaction processing services; potential liability when merchant customers cannot or do not reimburse us for chargebacks resolved in favor of cardholders, or when checks we warrant are dishonored by the check writer's bank; potential loss of customers from continued consolidation in the financial services and in retail industries; changes in regulation or industry standards applicable to our businesses or those of our customers; the level of economic growth or other factors affecting demand for our products and services; ability to maintain or improve our competitive positions against current and potential competitors; database security and reliability of our information technology systems; risks associated with investments and operations in foreign countries, including exchange rate fluctuations and local political, social, and economic factors, and those other risks listed in the above-referenced section of our Form S-4.
 
 
 
Revenues and operating income of the Company's reportable segments for the three months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002 are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revenues and operating income of the Company's reportable segments for the nine months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002 are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


