FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20030806163936.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS
 
 
None.
 
 
None.
 
 
 
ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
Certegy Inc. ("Certegy") is furnishing the following information and Exhibit pursuant to Item 9 of Form 8-K.
 
On August 5, 2003, Certegy issued a press release announcing that the Company's Board of Directors approved the payment of an initial quarterly dividend and increased the Company's share repurchase authority. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information in this Report, including the Exhibit attached hereto, is furnished solely pursuant to Item 9 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 6, 2003
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
The Board of Directors of Certegy Inc. (NYSE: CEY) today approved an initial quarterly common stock dividend of $0.05 per share, payable in cash on October 15, 2003, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on October 1, 2003.
Alpharetta, GA, August 5, 2003 
 
Certegy's Board of Directors also approved an additional $100 million in share repurchase authority. This approval follows the Company's existing share repurchase program established in September 2001, under which approximately $4.5 million in authority remains. As of August 4, 2003, the Company had approximately 66.1 million shares of common stock outstanding.
 
 
About Certegy Inc.
 
Certegy (NYSE:CEY) provides credit and debit processing, check risk management and check cashing services, and merchant processing to over 6,000 financial institutions, 117,000 retailers and 100 million consumers worldwide. Headquartered in Alpharetta, Georgia, Certegy maintains a strong global presence with operations in the United States, United Kingdom, Ireland, France, Chile, Brazil, Australia and New Zealand. As a leading payment services provider, Certegy offers a comprehensive range of transaction processing services, check risk management solutions and integrated customer support programs that facilitate the exchange of business and consumer payments. Certegy generated over $1.0 billion in revenue in 2002. For more information on Certegy, please visit .
www.certegy.com
 
 
The statements in this release include forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, assumptions, estimates, and projections about Certegy and our industry. They are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of Certegy's control, that may cause actual results to differ significantly from what is expressed in those statements. The factors that could, either individually or in the aggregate, affect our performance include the following, which are described in greater detail in the section entitled "Certain Factors Affecting Forward-Looking Statements" in our 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Quarterly Report for the period ending June 30, 2003 on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC: Our ability to maintain or improve our competitive positions against current and potential competitors; the level of economic growth or other factors affecting demand for our products and services; loss of key customer contracts or strategic relationships; changes in regulation or industry standards applicable to our businesses or those of our customers; risks associated with investments and operations in foreign countries, including exchange rate fluctuations and local political, social, and economic factors, and those other risks listed in the above-referenced sections of our Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
 


