FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20040514112810.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
ITEM 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Certegy Inc. ("Certegy") is furnishing the following information and Exhibit pursuant to Item 9 of Form 8-K.
 
On May 13, 2004, Certegy issued a press release announcing the appointment of Larry J. Towe as President and Chief Operating Officer. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information in the Report, including the Exhibit attached hereto, is furnished solely pursuant to Item 9 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
The Certegy Inc. (NYSE:CEY) Board of Directors today announced the appointment of Larry J. Towe as President and Chief Operating Officer. Lee Kennedy will continue in his current role as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Alpharetta, GA, May 13, 2004 
 
Towe has served as Certegy's Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since June 2001. He previously held the positions of Executive Vice President/Group Executive of Equifax Payment Services and Senior Vice President/General Manager of Equifax Card Solutions, International. Prior to joining Equifax in 1994, Mr. Towe was President of FBS Software.
 
In making the announcement Kennedy stated, "Larry's strong leadership, extensive experience and numerous achievements have contributed significantly to Certegy's success. His appointment as President is well deserved."
 
 
About Certegy Inc.
 
Certegy (NYSE:CEY) provides credit and debit processing, check risk management and check cashing services, merchant processing and e-banking services to over 6,500 financial institutions, 117,000 retailers and 100 million consumers worldwide. Headquartered in Alpharetta, Georgia, Certegy maintains a strong global presence with operations in the United States, United Kingdom, Ireland, France, Chile, Brazil, Australia and New Zealand. As a leading payment services provider, Certegy offers a comprehensive range of transaction processing services, check risk management solutions and integrated customer support programs that facilitate the exchange of business and consumer payments. Certegy generated over $1.0 billion in revenue in 2003. For more information on Certegy, please visit .
www.certegy.com
 


