FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20050210172607.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
 
Annual Incentive Plan
 
On February 4, 2005, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Certegy Inc. ("Certegy") reviewed and approved the payment of annual cash incentives to the following executive officers, among others, pursuant to the 2004 Annual Incentive Plan, as plan objectives previously set by the Committee for 2004 were determined to have been met: Lee A. Kennedy, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Larry J. Towe, President and Chief Operating Officer; Robert W. Bream, Executive Vice President and Group ExecutiveNorth American Card Services; Michael T. Vollkommer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Gerald A. Hines, Executive Vice PresidentGlobal Development; and Jeffrey S. Carbienner, Executive Vice President and Group ExecutiveCheck Services. The Committee also established plan objectives for 2005 and their relative weightings.
 
The Annual Incentive Plan provides for the payment of annual cash incentives based on the extent to which the objectives are achieved. Under both the 2004 and 2005 Annual Incentive Plans, each executive has a bonus target expressed as a percentage of base salary. Bonus targets for the officers listed above range from 40% to 100% of base salary. Actual awards can range from 0% to 200% of target, depending on performance against the established objectives. For both 2004 and 2005, the objectives for the officers listed above consist of Certegy's attainment of specified levels of diluted earnings per share (comprising 50% of incentive opportunity) and revenues (comprising 20%), as well as the results of individual performance assessments of each of the officers (30%).
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 10, 2005

EXHIBIT 10.46
 
 
1. PURPOSE
 
The Certegy Inc. Annual Incentive Plan (the "Plan") rewards eligible employees for their contribution toward the success of Certegy Inc. (the "Company"). The purpose of the Plan is to encourage and reward the attainment of established annual individual and business goals.
 
2. DEFINITIONS
 
The following words and phrases used in the Plan shall have these meanings:
 
 
 
 
Certegy Annual Incentive Plan
 
Page 1
 
 
For purposes of this paragraph, the following definitions will apply:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certegy Annual Incentive Plan
 
Page 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. earnings per share;
 
2. economic value added;
 
3. revenue;
 
4. operating profit / operating income;
 
5. net income;
 
6. total return to shareholders;
 
7. cash flow/net assets ratio;
 
8. debt/capital ratio;
 
9. return on total capital;
 
10. return on equity; and
 
11. common stock price.
 
Certegy Annual Incentive Plan
 
Page 3
If the Committee makes an award subject to a particular Plan Objective, the Committee shall adopt or confirm a written definition of that Plan Objective at the time of the award. Plan Objectives may be described in terms of Company-wide objectives or objectives that are related to a specific division, subsidiary, Employer, department, region, or function in which the Participant is employed. Plan Objectives may be made relative to the performance of other corporations.
 
If the Committee determines that a change in the business, operations, corporate structure or capital structure of the Company, or the manner in which it conducts its business, or other events or circumstances including accounting treatment render the Plan Objectives unsuitable or inappropriate, the Committee may in its sole discretion modify such Plan Objectives or the related minimum acceptable level of achievement, in whole or in part, as the Committee deems appropriate and equitable.
 
 
 
3. ADMINISTRATION
 
(a) The Committee, in its discretion, may delegate to one or more officers or committees of the Company, or to the Company's compensation department, all or part of the Committee's authority and duties with respect to Participants who are not executive officers of the Company or other officers designated by the Committee. In the event of such delegation, and as to matters encompassed by the delegation, references in the Plan to the "Committee" shall be interpreted as a reference to the Committee's delegate or delegates. The Committee may revoke or amend the terms of a delegation at any time but such action shall not invalidate any prior actions of the Committee's delegate or delegates that were consistent with the terms of the Plan.
 
(b) Any Option Right or Restricted Share elections under Section 6 will be specifically approved by the Committee for awards to Participants designated under Section 6.
 
(c) The interpretation and construction by the Committee of any provision of this Plan, and any determination by the Committee pursuant to any provision of this Plan, shall be final and conclusive. No member of the Committee shall be liable for any such action or determination made in good faith.
 
(d) The Plan shall be construed and administered in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia.
 
Certegy Annual Incentive Plan
 
Page 4
4. ELIGIBILITY FOR PARTICIPATION
 
(a) Subject to the eligibility criteria set forth below, all salaried Participants are eligible to participate in the Plan.
 
(b) Participants at salary levels 65-75 and at Executive Levels must have completed at least 3 months of service in the Incentive Year with the Employer to be eligible for an award at the end of the Incentive Year.
 
(c) A Participant who meets the criteria of subsection (b) above will also be eligible if such Participant was employed by the Employer in an eligible status at the beginning of the Incentive Year but was converted to a non-eligible status and continued employment in the non-eligible status through the Incentive Year, or if the Participant was employed by the Employer in a non-eligible status at the beginning of the Incentive Year but was converted to an eligible status and continued employment through the Incentive Year,. In either event, the applicable award will be calculated only on Salary for that portion of the year during which the Participant was in an eligible status.
 
(d) (i) Participants who leave the Employer prior to the end of an Incentive Year on any of the following conditions will nonetheless be eligible for a pro-rated award under the Plan: (A) Participants who, following at least three months of service, go onto active duty military service during the Incentive Year; (B) Participants who, with the consent of the Employer, retire after reaching age 65, attainment of at least age 50 where age plus credited service equals 75 or greater, or age 55 with 5 years of credited service, during the Incentive Year; (C) Participants who die during the Incentive Year; (D) Participants who terminate employment because of disability during the Incentive Year; and (E) Participants who are forced to terminate employment because of job elimination during the Incentive Year and who were not offered employment by a company that is coordinated through Certegy.
 
(ii) A Participant who leaves the Employer under one of these situations described in subsection (d)(i) will receive a pro-rated portion of his or her award after the end of the Incentive Year in which termination occurs            , following approval by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, and following sign-off of audited results by the Employer's outside auditors
 
(e) If a Participant is terminated, or otherwise leaves the employment of the Employer, prior to actual payment of the award, for any reason other than those set forth in subsection d (i) above, then the Participant will not be entitled to any award under the Plan.
 
(f) Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Agreement to the contrary, if a Change in Control occurs during an Incentive Year, each eligible Employee will be entitled to receive an award for that Incentive Year which is the greater of (i) the target award for that Incentive Year, or (ii) the projected results compared to Plan targets at the time of the Change in Control, calculated on the basis of compensation earned as of the effective date of the Change in Control.
 
5. DETERMINATION OF AWARDS
 
(a) For each Incentive Year, the Committee will establish Plan Objectives for the Company and/or the Employer for Plan purposes. If the Company or the Employer (as applicable) fails to meet these Plan Objectives for the Incentive Year, then the Committee may, in its sole discretion, authorize incentive awards to any, all, or none of the Participants in the Plan based on such considerations as the Committee deems appropriate.
 
 
 
 
Certegy Annual Incentive Plan
 
Page 5
(b) If the Company or the Employer (as Applicable) meets the Plan Objectives for the Incentive Year, then individual incentive awards will be determined on the basis of actual performance during the Incentive Year as compared with certain pre-established goals, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) Individual incentive awards will be deemed earned based upon the degree to which all established goals are attained for the Incentive Year. If a Participant is rated "below expectation" on his or her individual performance goals, no incentive award will be made.
 
(d) Participants who are transferred into or out of organizational entities covered by this Plan will be paid incentive for the months in the specific unit. Those Participants eligible for participation for a portion of the Incentive Year will receive an award applicable only to the Salary attributable to that portion of the Incentive Year during which they were eligible under this Plan.
 
(e) The Committee may designate a maximum amount of cash award under the Plan. If an award, determined on the basis of the criteria described above, would exceed that maximum, the difference will be paid in Restricted Shares granted under the Company's 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, at a value determined by the Committee.
 
6. CONVERSION OF AWARDS
 
(a) Eligible Participants, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, may request that they forego all or part of their award in exchange for an award of Option Rights. The election to make this request will be made by the Participant not later than a date each year specified by the Committee, but in no event to be later than the date when an award is earned. As an additional incentive for employees and officers to forego the potential receipt of a cash award, the Committee may approve from time to time a formula that includes an award premium based on the percentage of the award that is converted.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certegy Annual Incentive Plan
 
 
Page 6
(b) Eligible Participants, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, may request that they forego all or part of their award in exchange for an award of Restricted Stock. The election to make this request will be made by the Participant not later than a date each year specified by the Committee, but in no event to be later than the date when an award is earned. As an additional incentive for employees and officers to forego the potential receipt of a cash award, the Committee may approve from time to time a formula that includes an award of additional incremental shares of Restricted Stock
 
7. PAYMENT OF AWARDS
 
Except to the extent that the Award is converted pursuant to Section 6, Awards will normally be paid to eligible participants after the close of the Plan Year, following approval by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, and following sign-off of audited results by the Employer's outside auditors.
 
8. TERM OF THE PLAN
 
The Plan shall continue from year to year at the discretion of the Committee. In keeping with its purposes, the Committee will review the Plan annually and will consider any modifications which are consistent with the objectives of the Plan and the financial condition of the Company.
 
9. EFFECTIVE DATE
 
This Plan, as amended and restated, shall become effective upon the approval of this Plan by the Committee.
 
10. NO RIGHT TO CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT
 
This Plan creates no rights for continued employment on the part of any Participant, and it shall not interfere in any way with any right the Company or any Employer would otherwise have to terminate such Participant's employment or other service at any time.
 
11. AMENDMENTS
 
The Committee may amend, suspend or terminate this Plan at any time.
 
 
 
Certegy Annual Incentive Plan
 
Page 7


