FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20061027170745.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
FIS Annual Incentive Plan
     On October 23, 2006, at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., a Georgia corporation ("FIS"), the shareholders of FIS approved the FIS Annual Incentive Plan, or . The incentive plan will allow incentive awards paid thereunder to qualify as deductible performance-based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). The incentive plan will be administered by FIS's compensation committee. Eligibility under the incentive plan is limited to FIS's chief executive officer and each other executive officer that the compensation committee determines, in its discretion, is or may be a "covered employee" of FIS within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code and who is selected by the compensation committee to participate in the incentive plan. Payment of awards under the incentive plan will be made in cash. The incentive plan will remain in effect until such time as it is terminated by FIS's board of directors.
incentive plan
Amended and Restated Certegy Inc. Stock Incentive Plan
     On October 23, 2006, at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of FIS, the shareholders of FIS approved an amendment and restatement of the Certegy Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, or , to (i) increase the number of shares for issuance by 4,000,000 shares, (ii) increase the limits on the number of options, restricted shares and restricted stock units that may be granted under the stock plan, and (iii) make other non-material changes. Shareholder approval of the stock plan, as amended and restated, also constituted approval of the material terms of the performance goals under which compensation intended to constitute performance-based compensation for purposes of Section 162(m) of Code may be paid.
stock plan
     The stock plan originally became effective on June 15, 2001. The stock plan was most recently amended and restated on September 14, 2005, which amendment and restatement was approved by FIS's shareholders on January 26, 2006. The stock plan permits the granting of nonqualified stock options, incentive stock options, restricted shares and restricted stock units. The stock plan authorizes the granting of awards for up to ten years from the date of its initial approval and will remain in effect with respect to outstanding awards until no awards remain outstanding. The stock plan is administered by FIS's compensation committee. Eligible participants include officers, key employees, directors and consultants of FIS and its subsidiaries, as determined by the compensation committee. The stock plan may be amended or terminated by FIS's compensation committee at any time, subject to certain limitations, provided that no such action may, without a participant's written consent, adversely affect in any material way any previously granted award. No amendment that would require shareholder approval under applicable law may become effective without shareholder approval.
FIS Employee Stock Purchase Plan
     On October 23, 2006, at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the shareholders of FIS approved the FIS Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or . The ESPP will provide an incentive to attract and retain employees by providing a program through which employees can purchase shares of FIS common stock through payroll deductions and through matching employer contributions. The maximum number of shares of FIS's common stock available for purchase under the FIS ESPP is 10,000,000 shares.
ESPP
     Employees who elect to participate may contribute an amount between 3% and 15% of their salary into the ESPP through payroll deduction. At the end of each calendar quarter, FIS will make a matching contribution to the account of each participant who has been continuously employed by FIS or a participating subsidiary for the last four calendar quarters. For most employees, matching contributions will be equal to one-third (1/3) of the amount contributed during the quarter that is one year earlier than the quarter in which the matching contribution is made; for certain officers of FIS or its subsidiaries and for employees who have completed at least ten consecutive years of employment with FIS, the matching contribution will be one-half (1/2) of such amount.
Table of Contents
     As soon as administratively practicable following the close of each payroll period or, with respect to matching contributions, the quarter end (in each case, the purchase date), the amount credited to a participant's account will be transferred to a broker and used to purchase shares of FIS common stock on the open market. Certificates representing the shares purchased and held in a participant's share account will be delivered to the participant upon his or her request. Alternatively, a participant may request the broker to sell on the participant's behalf any or all of the shares of common stock held in his or her share account. The ESPP may be amended or terminated by FIS's board of directors at any time, provided that no such action may, without a participant's consent, adversely affect any rights previously granted to such participant.
Further information about the FIS Annual Incentive Plan, the Amended and Restated Certegy Inc. Stock Incentive Plan and the FIS Employee Stock Purchase Plan may be found in the descriptions thereof contained in FIS's Amendment No. 1 to Form S-4 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 19, 2006, which descriptions are incorporated herein by reference.
     In connection with the Asset Contribution, and the proposed merger of FNF with and into FIS, on October 25 2006, William P. Foley, II became the Executive Chairman, Alan L. Stinson became the Executive Vice PresidentFinance, Brent Bickett became the Executive Vice PresidentStrategic Planning and Michael L. Gravelle became the Executive Vice PresidentLegal, of FIS. Additionally, on October 25, 2006, Richard N. Massey joined the board of directors of FIS.
     Biographical and other information required to be reported concerning Messrs. Foley, Stinson, Bickett, Massey and Gravelle are incorporated herein by reference to FIS's Amendment No. 1 to Form S-4 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 19, 2006.
Item 8.01. Other Events
     On October 24, 2006, FNT completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets and liabilities of FNF (other than FNF's interests in its majority-owned subsidiary, FIS and in a small subsidiary, FNF Capital Leasing, Inc.) in exchange for 45,265,956 shares of FNT's Class A common stock (the "Asset Contribution"), pursuant to the Amended and Restated Securities Exchange and Distribution Agreement, dated as of June 25, 2006, as amended and restated as of September 18, 2006, between FNT and FNF.
     Prior to the Asset Contribution, FNT was party to various "intercompany agreements" with FNF and FIS. On October 23, 2006, in connection with the completion of the Asset Contribution, and the anticipated merger of FNF with and into FIS, certain intercompany agreements were terminated. In addition, FNT and FIS have entered into new intercompany agreements, as described below.
     The primary reason for terminating the previous intercompany agreements, and executing new intercompany agreements, was to reflect the effect of the Asset Contribution on FNT's overall corporate structure. Another reason was to ensure that the rights and obligations covered by the intercompany agreements before the Asset Contribution would be properly allocated among the post-Asset Contribution entities.
     The new intercompany agreements are filed as Exhibits 99.1 through 99.5 to this report. The following summaries are qualified in their entirety by reference to the text of such exhibits. The agreements described herein do not constitute all of the intercompany agreements between FNT and FNF, FIS or their respective affiliates. Additional intercompany agreements are described under the caption "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions with FNF and FIS" in FNT's Schedule 14C filed with the SEC on September 19, 2006.
Amended and Restated Intellectual Property Cross License Agreement between FNF and FIS.
     On October 23, 2006, in connection with the Asset Contribution, this agreement was terminated.
Tax Disaffiliation Agreement.
     Effective as of October 24, 2006, FIS, FNF and FNT have entered into a tax disaffiliation agreement. FNT and its subsidiaries currently are members of the FNF consolidated federal income tax return. In addition, certain FNT subsidiaries are included with FIS group companies in state combined income tax returns. As a result of the
Table of Contents
Asset Contribution, FNT's companies will no longer be included in the FNF consolidated federal income tax return or in any state combined return with any FIS company. The tax disaffiliation agreement allocates responsibility between FIS and FNT for filing returns and paying taxes for periods prior to the Asset Contribution, subject to the indemnification provisions set forth in the agreement. The tax disaffiliation agreement also includes indemnifications for any adjustments to taxes for periods prior to the Asset Contribution and for any taxes and for any associated adverse consequences that may be imposed on the parties as a result of the Asset Contribution, as a result of actions taken by the parties or otherwise, and as a result of the merger.
Indemnification
Designation of Agent
     FNF, prior to the merger, to the extent permissible under the tax law, will designate FNT or an affiliate of FNT as the agent of the FNF federal consolidated group, such that FNT (or such FNT affiliate) will represent that group before the Internal Revenue Service for all federal income tax matters related to periods prior to the Asset Contribution. There will be conforming agency designations at the state level to the extent permitted by law.
Filing of Returns and Payment of Taxes
Restrictions on Stock Acquisitions
     In order to help preserve the tax free nature of the Asset Contribution, FNT and FIS have mutually agreed that neither company will engage in any direct or indirect acquisition, issuance, or other transaction involving that
Table of Contents
company's stock unless the company first obtains an opinion from a nationally recognized law firm or accounting firm that the acquisition will not cause the Asset Contribution to be taxable. This restriction is subject to various exceptions, including that the opinion restriction may be waived with the consent of certain officers of the other company.
Other Operational Provisions
Cross-Indemnity Agreement.
     FNT and FIS have entered into a cross-indemnity agreement, which provides that each party will indemnify the other party and certain of the other party's affiliates and representatives from and against any losses incurred by the indemnified parties arising out of:
     The cross-indemnity agreement expressly provides that it is not intended to change the allocation of liability for any matter in any other existing or future agreement between FNT and its affiliates and FIS and its affiliates, to all of which agreements the cross-indemnity agreement is made subject.
Transition License Agreement.
     FNT, as licensor, has entered into an intellectual property transition license with FIS, as licensee, granting to FIS a limited license to use the "Fidelity National Financial" name and "house" logo for one year during the changeover by FIS to its own logos. The licensed use is limited to use only as part of the transition by FIS to new logos and corporate materials, and is intended to cover incidental use by FIS of previously available FNF materials (such as stationary, bags, umbrellas, shirts, other corporate memorabilia, etc.). FIS is not permitted to use the Fidelity National Financial name or "house" logo in any advertising or marketing materials. FIS is also required to
Table of Contents
use good faith efforts to terminate their use of the name and logo as soon as reasonably possible, provided that FIS will not be obligated to expend funds to revise corporate incidentals (such as shirts, coasters, bags, etc.). Until one year after William P. Foley, II is no longer the Executive Chairman of FIS or the fifth anniversary of the closing, whichever is earlier, FNT agrees not to bring suit against FIS for incidental use of the "house" logo or the Fidelity National Financial name; however, FNT will not be prohibited from bringing suit if FIS uses the name or logo in any advertising or marketing materials or any other material commercial manner.
Intellectual Property Cross License Agreement.
     FNT has entered into an intellectual property cross license agreement with FIS, mutually granting to each other a continuing, perpetual, non-exclusive and royalty-free license to use certain know-how and proprietary information that has been historically used in the conduct of our respective businesses. The terms and conditions of this agreement are substantially similar to those in the existing cross license agreement between FIS and FNT, but the breadth of the proprietary information covered is more limited than in the existing agreement.
Master Accounting and Billing Agreement.
     FNT and FIS and/or their subsidiaries have previously entered, contemporaneously with the Asset Contribution, and hereafter may enter, into various agreements with each other relating to services, licenses, and other matters, including but not limited to corporate services agreements, a master information technology agreement, software use, software development and intellectual property licenses, a title plant maintenance agreement, starters and back plant repository agreements, a lease and sublease, a telecommunications services agreement, a property management agreement, an aircraft cost sharing agreement, and various cost sharing agreements. The master accounting and billing agreement sets forth the parties' agreement to utilize one master accounting and billing procedure for all amounts that may be owing between them from time to time pursuant to any and all agreements between them. The master accounting and billing agreement does not alter or affect the amount of any payments that may be owing or may become owing between the parties, but only sets forth the process and procedures that the parties will follow in the billing of those amounts. The master accounting and billing agreement may be terminated at any time by either party, upon not less than 60 days' prior written notice. The agreement can also be modified to exclude any particular obligations at any time at the request of FIS and modified to include any additional obligations so long as the parties mutually agree to the inclusion.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
Execution Version
     THIS TAX DISAFFILIATION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of October 23, 2006, is by and among Fidelity National Financial, Inc. ("FNF"), a Delaware corporation, Fidelity National Title Group, Inc. ("FNT"), a Delaware corporation, and Fidelity National Information Services Inc. ("FIS"), a Georgia corporation.
     WHEREAS, as set forth in the Securities Exchange and Distribution Agreement dated as of June 25, 2006, as amended and restated as of September 18, 2006 (as so amended and restated, the "Distribution Agreement"), by and between FNF and FNT, FNF will transfer to FNT certain assets and liabilities and then distribute all of the shares of FNT Class A Common Stock it holds on the date specified in the Distribution Agreement (the "Distribution Date") in a transaction (the "Distribution") designed to qualify as a tax-free reorganization and distribution pursuant to sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code");
     WHEREAS, FNF is, and will be until the Distribution is effective, the common parent of the affiliated group of corporations within the meaning of section 1504(a) of the Code that includes FNT and its eligible subsidiary corporations;
     WHEREAS, immediately after the Distribution, FNT and FNF will no longer be members of the same affiliated group;
     WHEREAS, after the Distribution, FNF Capital Leasing Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of FNF ("Leasing"), will merge with and into FIS Capital Leasing, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of FIS, in a transaction designed to qualify under section 368(a)(1)(A) by reason of section 368(a)(2)(D) (the "Leasing Merger");
     WHEREAS, after the Leasing Merger, as set forth in the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of June 25, 2006 as previously amended and as amended and restated as of September 18, 2006 (as so amended and restated, the "FNF Merger Agreement"), between FIS and FNF, FNF will merge with and into FIS on the date specified in the FNF Merger Agreement ("FNF Merger Date") in a transaction designed to qualify under section 368(a)(1)(A) (the "FNF Merger" and, collectively with the Leasing Merger, the "Mergers") and FNF will cease its separate corporate existence; and
     WHEREAS, in connection with the Distribution and the Mergers the parties hereto desire to enter into this Agreement, setting forth their agreement with respect to certain Tax matters from and after the Distribution Date.
     NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and promises contained herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:
 
     "Acquisition" means any acquisition of FNT stock or FIS stock, as applicable (including without limitation a stock redemption) or issuance of FNT stock or FIS stock, as applicable, excluding (a) the issuance of stock by FIS in connection with the acquisition of the assets of FNF and Leasing in the Mergers; (b) the distribution of FNT stock in the Distribution; (c) any acquisition of stock that qualifies under section 1.355-7(d)(7) of the Treasury Regulations or any successor thereto, section 1.355-7(d)(8) of the Treasury Regulations or any successor thereto or section 1.355-7(d)(9) of the Treasury Regulations or any successor thereto; (d) any acquisition of FIS stock held by an existing shareholder of FIS prior to the effective time of the FNF Merger, including, without limitation, any sale of such FIS stock by such a shareholder pursuant to the exercise of registration rights by such shareholder; (e) any vesting of FIS restricted stock that is granted or issued in connection with the Distribution or the Mergers; and (f) any acquisition of FIS stock pursuant to the exercise of any option to acquire FIS stock that is granted in connection with the Distribution or the Mergers.
     "Adverse Consequences" means damages, penalties, fines, costs, expenses (including professional fees and expenses), amounts paid in settlement, liabilities, obligations, liens, and losses, including any such amounts arising out of or related to claims asserted against FNF, FIS or FNT by any shareholder participating in the Distribution or Mergers, or the Service, or any other Tax Authority that ultimately is successful in seeking recourse against FNF, FIS or FNT; that Adverse Consequences shall not include any indirect, special, consequential, or punitive damages, except for indirect, special, consequential or punitive damages paid or awarded with respect to a Third-Party Claim.
provided
     "After-Tax Basis" means that, for purposes of determining the amount of the Indemnified Liability, the amount of any Taxes, Tax Losses, or Adverse Consequences shall be determined net of any Tax Benefit derived by the Indemnitee as the result of sustaining such Tax, Tax Loss, and Adverse Consequences and increased by the amount of any Tax Detriment incurred by the Indemnitee as the result of its receipt, or right to receive, such indemnification payment, so that the Indemnitee is put in the same net after-Tax economic position as if it had not incurred such Tax, Tax Loss, or Adverse Consequences.
     "Affiliated Company" means any and every corporation that has a common parent that holds directly or indirectly 80% or more of the voting power and value of such corporation within the meaning of section 1504(a) of the Code.
     "Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble hereto.
     "Arbitrator" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.5(c) of this Agreement.
 
     "Audit" includes any audit, assessment of Taxes or other examination by any Tax Authority, proceeding, or appeal of such a proceeding relating to Taxes, whether administrative or judicial, including proceedings relating to competent authority determinations.
     "Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York are required or authorized by law to close.
     "Code" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals to this Agreement.
     "Combined Group" means a group of one or more companies that files a Combined Return.
     "Combined Return" means any Tax Return with respect to Combined State/Local Tax filed on a consolidated, combined, unitary or other similar basis wherein any member of the FIS Group joins in the filing of such Tax Return (for any Taxable Period) with any member of the FNF Legacy Group or the FNT Group.
     "Combined State/Local Tax" means the state or local Tax liability determined on a consolidated, combined or unitary basis.
     "Combined Tax Allocation Statement" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(b).
     "Consolidated Federal Tax" means the Federal Income Tax liability of a Consolidated Group determined on a consolidated basis.
     "Consolidated Group" means a group of one or more Affiliated Companies that files a Consolidated Return.
     "Consolidated Return" means any Tax Return with respect to Federal Income Taxes filed on a consolidated basis pursuant to Section 1501 of the Code.
     "Consolidated Tax Allocation Statement" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(b).
     "Contemplated Action" means any action contemplated by the Distribution Agreement or any other agreement entered into in connection with the Distribution or the Mergers, any vesting of FIS restricted stock that is granted or issued in connection with the Distribution or the Mergers, including FIS restricted stock issued in respect of FNF restricted stock, and any acquisition of FIS stock pursuant to the exercise of any option to acquire FIS stock that is granted in connection with the Distribution or the Mergers, including FNF options assumed by FIS pursuant to the FNF Merger.
     "Contest" means any Audit or claim for refund involving any Taxes with respect to a Pre-Distribution Period.
 
     "Control" means stock representing a 50% or greater interest within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code, taking into account the principles of section 355(e)(3)(B).
     "Controlling Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.2(d) of this Agreement.
     "Cross-Indemnity Agreement" means the cross indemnification agreement signed and executed by FNT and FIS pursuant to Section 2.3(f) of the Distribution Agreement.
     "Dispute" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.5(a) of this Agreement.
     "Distribution" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals to this Agreement.
     "Distribution Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals to this Agreement.
     "Distribution Date" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals to this Agreement.
     "Effective Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.1 of this Agreement.
     "Federal Income Tax" means any Tax imposed under Subtitle A of the Code (including the Taxes imposed by Section 11, 55, and 1201(a) of the Code), and any interest, addition to Tax, or penalties applicable or related thereto, and any other income-based U.S. federal tax which is hereinafter imposed upon corporations.
     "Filing Group" means either (a) the FNT Group, if the Filing Party is either FNF or a member of the FNT Group, or (b) the FIS Group, if the Filing Party is a member of the FIS Group.
     "Filing Party" means, (a) with respect to any Consolidated Return or Combined Return, the party that is required to file such a Tax Return under Section 2.2 of this Agreement, and (b) with respect to any Separate Return, the party that is required to file such Tax Return under applicable law.
     "Final Determination" means with respect to any issue (a) a decision, judgment, decree or other order by the United States Tax Court or any other court of competent jurisdiction that has become final and unappealable, (b) a closing agreement under section 7121 of the Code or a comparable provision of any state, local, or foreign Tax law that is binding against the Service or any other Taxing Authority, (c) any other final settlement with the Service or other Taxing Authority, or (d) the expiration of an applicable statute of limitations.
     "FIS" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement.
     "FIS Acquisition Process" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.2(b) of this Agreement.
 
     "FIS Combined Returns" means any Combined Return with respect to which FIS or any member of the FIS Group is the common parent of the Combined Group.
     "FIS Consolidated Returns" means any Consolidated Return with respect to which FIS is the common parent of the Consolidated Group, except for any Consolidated Return in which FNF will be the common parent of the Consolidated Group until the FNF Merger.
     "FIS Group" means FIS and any Affiliated Company of which FIS is the common parent corporation, and any corporation which may be, or may become, a member of such group from time to time, excluding FNF and, for the avoidance of doubt, excluding Leasing.
     "FNF" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement.
     "FNF Consolidated Return" means any Consolidated Return with respect to which FNF is the common parent of the Consolidated Group, including any Consolidated Return for which FNF will be the common parent until the FNF Merger and for which FIS will be the common parent after the FNF Merger.
     "FNF Group" means any member of the FNF Legacy Group and any member of the FNT Group prior to the Distribution.
     "FNF Legacy Group" includes FNF and any corporation that is an Affiliated Company with FNF prior to the Leasing Merger (including Leasing), other than any member of the FIS Group, or any member of the FNT Group prior to the Distribution.
     "FNF Legacy Group Combined Return" means any Combined Return with respect to which a member of the FNF Legacy Group is the common parent of the Combined Group.
     "FNF Merger" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals to this Agreement.
     "FNF Merger Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals to this Agreement.
     "FNF Merger Date" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals to this Agreement.
     "FNT" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement.
     "FNT Acquisition Process" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.2(c) of this Agreement.
     "FNT Combined Return" means any Combined Return with respect to which FNT or any member of the FNT Group is the common parent of the Combined Group.
 
     "FNT Consolidated Return" means any Consolidated Return with respect to which FNT is the common parent of the Consolidated Group.
     "FNT Group" means FNT and any Affiliated Company of which FNT is the common parent corporation and any corporation which may be, or may become, a member of such group from time to time.
     "Hypothetical Tax" has the meaning set forth in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1.
     "Indemnified Liability" means any liability which is imposed upon or incurred by an Indemnitee against which such Indemnitee is indemnified and held harmless under this Agreement.
     "Indemnifying Party" means any person that is required to indemnify and hold harmless any Indemnitee under this Agreement.
     "Indemnitee" means person that incurs a liability that is subject to indemnification under this Agreement.
     "Leasing" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals to this Agreement.
     "Leasing Merger" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals to this Agreement.
     "Non-Controlling Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.2(d)(i) of this Agreement.
     "Non-Filing Group" means either the FIS Group, if the Filing Party is a member of the FNT Group, or the FNT Group if the Filing Party is a member of the FIS Group.
     "Non-Filing Party" means either FIS, if the Filing Party is a member of the FNT Group, or FNT, if the Filing Party is a member of the FIS Group.
     "NTI-NY" means National Title Insurance of New York, Inc., a New York insurance company.
     "Opinion Documents" means the Tax Opinion and representation letters referred to therein.
     "Other Tax Group" means either the FNT Group if the FIS Group is the Tax Group or the FIS Group if the FNT Group is the Tax Group.
     "Post-Merger Period" means any Taxable Period or portion thereof beginning after the FNF Merger.
 
     "Pre-Merger Period" means any (a) Taxable Period ending on or prior to the FNF Merger Date or (b) with respect to any Taxable Period beginning prior to the FNF Merger Date and ending after the FNF Merger Date, the portion of such Taxable Period that ends on the FNF Merger Date.
     "Private Letter Ruling" means the private letter ruling issued by the Service to FNF that addresses, , the tax consequences of the Distribution and Mergers.
inter alia
     "Referee" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.5(c) of the Agreement.
     "Ruling Documents" means the Private Letter Ruling, plus all of the materials submitted to the Service in connection with obtaining such ruling.
     "Regulated Tax Sharing Agreement" means any written Tax Sharing Agreement between an insurance company and FNF, FNT, or FIS filed with a state insurance commissioner, for the period that Tax Sharing Agreement remains in effect.
     "Section 355(e) Liability" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.2(f) of this Agreement.
     "Section 355 Tax Treatment" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1(a)(i) of this Agreement.
     "Separate Return" means any Tax Return, filed by any entity, that is not part of a Consolidated Return or a Combined Return.
     "Separate Tax" means any Tax incurred by an entity that is not a Federal Income Tax required to be shown on a Consolidated Return and is not a Combined State/Local Tax required to be shown on a Combined Return.
     "Service" means the Internal Revenue Service.
     "Steering Committee" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.5(a) of this Agreement.
     "Tax" means any net income, gross income, gross receipts, alternative or add-on minimum, sales, use, ad valorem, franchise, profits, license, withholding, payroll, employment, excise, transfer, recording, severance, stamp, occupation, premium, property, environmental, estimated, custom duty, or other tax, governmental fee or other like assessment or charge of any kind whatsoever, together with any interest and any penalty, addition to Tax or additional amount imposed by a Tax Authority.
     "Tax Authority" means any governmental authority or any subdivision, agency, commission or authority thereof or any quasi-governmental or private body having jurisdiction over the assessment, determination, collection, or imposition of any Tax (including the Service).
 
     "Tax Benefit" means a decrease in the Tax liability of a taxpayer (or of the consolidated, combined, or unitary group of which it is a member) for any Taxable Period. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, a Tax Benefit shall be deemed to have been realized or received from a Tax Item in a Taxable Period only if and to the extent that the Tax liability of the taxpayer (or of the consolidated, combined, or unitary group of which it is a member) for such period, after taking into account the effect of the Tax Item on the Tax liability of such taxpayer (or of the consolidated, combined, or unitary group of which it is a member) in the current period and all prior periods, is less than it would have been if such Tax liability were determined on a consistent basis without regard to such Tax Item, taking into account the principles of Schedule I.
     "Tax Detriment" means an increase in the Tax liability of a taxpayer (or of the consolidated, combined, or unitary group of which it is a member) for any Taxable Period. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, a Tax Detriment shall be deemed to have been realized or received from a Tax Item in a Taxable Period only if and to the extent that the Tax liability of the taxpayer (or of the consolidated, combined, or unitary group of which it is a member) for such period, after taking into account the effect of the Tax Item on the Tax liability of such taxpayer (or of the consolidated, combined, or unitary group of which it is a member) in the current period and all prior periods, is more than it would have been if such Tax liability were determined on a consistent basis without regard to such Tax Item, taking into account the principles of Schedule I.
     "Tax Group" means either the FNT Group or the FIS Group, as the context dictates.
     "Tax Group Parent" means either FNT, if the FNT Group is the Tax Group, or FIS, if the FIS Group is the Tax Group.
     "Tax Item" means any item of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit, or other attribute that may have the effect of increasing or decreasing any Tax.
     "Tax Losses" means all fees and costs (including reasonable outside professional fees and costs incurred in connection with a contest) that directly result from, or relate to, Taxes.
     "Tax Opinion" means the tax opinion that Deloitte Tax LLP will deliver pursuant to Section 6.3(e) of the Distribution Agreement.
     "Tax Return" means any return, report, certificate, form or similar statement or document (including any related or supporting information or schedule attached thereto and any information return, amended Tax return, claim for refund or declaration of estimated Tax) supplied to, or filed with, a Tax Authority in connection with the determination, assessment, or collection of any Tax or the administration of any laws, regulations, or administrative requirements relating to any Tax, including where
 
permitted or required any Tax return filed on a consolidated, combined, unitary or other similar basis.
     "Tax Settlement" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.4(b) of this Agreement.
     "Tax Sharing Agreement" means any tax sharing agreements, arrangements, policies or guidelines, formal or informal, express or implied, which may exist between the members of an affiliated group.
     "Taxable Period" means, with respect to any Tax, the period for which the Tax is reported as provided under the Code or any other applicable Tax laws.
     "Third-Party Claim" means the assertion of any claim or the commencement of any action by a person (other than a Tax Authority) who is not a member of (i) the FNT Group; (ii) the FIS Group; or (iii) the FNF Legacy Group, in each case only if Adverse Consequences resulting from such claim or action would be subject to indemnification under this Agreement.
     "Treasury Regulations" means the final and temporary Tax regulations promulgated under the Code, as such regulations may be amended from time to time (including corresponding provisions of successor regulations).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3 . Any indemnification required under this Section 5 shall be paid in accordance with the terms of Sections 4.2 and 4.3 of this Agreement.
Indemnification Payments
6.1 . If, after the Effective Date, any member of a Tax Group receives written notice of, or relating to, an Audit from a Tax Authority that asserts, proposes or recommends a deficiency, claim or adjustment that, if sustained, could result in Taxes for which any member of the Other Tax Group is responsible under this Agreement, then the Tax Group Parent of the Tax Group receiving such notice shall provide or cause to be provided a copy of such notice to the Other Tax Group promptly thereafter, but, in any case, within ten (10) Business Days of receipt thereof. Each Tax Group Parent shall forward or cause to be forwarded to the Other Tax Group relevant portions of any reports or other communications which relate to such matters.
Notice
 
 
6.3 . In the event that a judgment of the United States Tax Court or other court of competent jurisdiction results in an adverse determination with respect to a matter described in Sections 6.2(b) and (c) of this Agreement, then, subject to Section 6.4(b):
Judicial Appeals
 
6.4 .
Limitations
 
6.5 . The failure of the Filing Party promptly to notify the Non-Filing Party of any matter relating to a particular Tax for a Taxable Period or to take any action specified in Section 6.2 of this Agreement shall not relieve the Non-Filing Party of any liability and/or obligation which it may have to the Filing Party under this Agreement with respect to such Tax for such Taxable Period except to the extent that the Non-Filing Party's rights hereunder are materially prejudiced by such failure and in no event shall such failure relieve the Non-Filing Party of any other liability and/or obligation which it may have to the Filing Party.
Failure to Notify
6.6 . Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the parties hereby agree that the sole and exclusive remedy for a breach by the Filing Party of the Filing Party's obligations to the Non-Filing Party with respect to a deficiency, claim or adjustment relating to the redetermination of a Tax Item of the Non-Filing Party for a Taxable Period shall first be a reduction in the amount that would otherwise be payable by the Non-Filing Party for such Taxable Period and then an increase in amount that would otherwise be payable by the Filing Party for such Taxable Period, in either case because of the breach. The parties further agree that no claim against the Filing Party and no defense to the Non-Filing Party's liabilities to the Filing
Remedies
 
Party under this Agreement shall arise from the resolution by the Filing Party of any deficiency, claim or adjustment relating to the redetermination of any Tax Item of the Filing Party.
7.1 . FNT and FIS shall cooperate and provide each other with all documents and information, and provide access to employees and officers of any member of the FNT Group or the FIS Group, respectively, as reasonably requested by the other party, on a mutually convenient basis during normal business hours (and promptly reimburse the other party for any out-of-pocket costs incurred by a party in providing such cooperation), documents and information, and access to the requesting party) to aid the other party in preparing any Tax Return described in Section 2.2 or 2.3 of this Agreement or to contest any Audit of any such Tax Return or to obtain any opinion referred to in Section 5.2, including, without limitation, the making of representations (to the extent such representations are true) in connection with obtaining any such opinion. Such cooperation shall include, without limitation:
Provision of Information and Documents
7.2 The Non-Filing Party will provide to employees or representatives of the Filing Party responsible for preparing its Tax Returns with access to any relevant information, including any Ruling Documents or Tax Opinion, not in the possession of the Filing Party, as it relates to the Filing Party or any member of the Filing Group, and will provide the Filing Party with a copy of such relevant information to the extent that the issues discussed therein are relevant to the Filing Party
Special Rules Regarding Information Required for Tax Return Preparation.
 
or any member of the Filing Group within a reasonable time thereafter, but, in any case, not later than five (5) Business Days after the receipt of a written request therefor.
7.3 . FNT and FIS shall advise and consult with each other with respect to any Tax election or the Tax treatment of any item (including the treatment of any item that would be affected by a proposed Tax adjustment relating to a Consolidated Return or Combined Return which is the subject of an Audit or investigation, or is the subject of any proceeding or litigation) which could affect any Tax attribute of the other party or the Other Tax Group (including, but not limited to, basis in an asset or the amount of earnings and profits).
Consultations With Regard to Tax Items
7.4 . In the event that a Filing Party determines that the provision of any information to any member of the Other Tax Group could be commercially detrimental, violate any law or agreement, or waive any privilege that may be asserted under applicable law including any privilege arising under or relating to the attorney-client relationship (including the attorney-client and work product privileges), the parties shall take reasonable measures to permit the compliance with such obligations in a manner that avoids any such harm or consequence.
Limitations on Cooperation
8.1 . This Agreement shall become effective as of the Distribution Date ("Effective Date").
Effectiveness
8.2 . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and hand delivered or mailed by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) or sent by any means of electronic message transmission with delivery confirmed (by voice or otherwise) to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other addresses for a party as shall be specified by like notice) and will be deemed given on the date on which such notice is received:
Notices
TO FNF:
Fidelity National Financial, Inc.
601 Riverside Avenue Jacksonville, FL 32201 Telephone: (904) 854-8152 With a copy to the General Counsel at the above address
 
TO FIS:
Fidelity National Information Services, Inc.
601 Riverside Avenue Jacksonville, FL 32201 Telephone: (904) 854-8100 With a copy to the General Counsel at the above address
TO FNT:
Fidelity National Title Group, Inc.
601 Riverside Avenue Jacksonville, FL 32201 Telephone: (904) 854-8100 With a copy to the General Counsel at the above address and to such other persons or places as each party may from time to time designate by written notice sent as aforesaid.
8.3 .
Changes in Law
8.4 . Whenever this Agreement specifies that consent is not to be unreasonably withheld, the determination shall take into account, among other things, the relative amount of potential Tax exposure or refund involved for FNT Group companies on the one hand and the FIS Group companies on the other hand, and if the consent relates to bringing proceedings in one venue rather than another, the impact on such decision on such interests of each group. Any controversy over refusal of consent shall be resolved pursuant to Section 8.5 of this Agreement.
Consent
8.5 .
Dispute Resolution
 
 
8.5 . In the event of the assertion of any Third-Party Claim, claim procedures will be governed by the provisions of Section 2.3 of the Cross-Indemnity Agreement.
Third-Party Claims
 
8.6 . Each of the parties hereto hereby represents and warrants (a) that it has the power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement, (b) that this Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of each such party, (c) that this Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of each such party and (d) that the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by such party does not contravene or conflict with any provision of law or of its charter or bylaws or any agreement, instrument or order binding on such party.
Authorization
8.7 . The provisions to this Agreement shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
Successors
8.8 . Except for assignments or transfers by operation of law, this Agreement shall not be assignable, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by any party hereto without the prior written consent of the other party hereto, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld, and any attempt to assign any rights or obligations arising under this Agreement without such consent shall be void.
Assignment
8.9 . This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall supersede all previous negotiations, commitments and writings with respect to such subject matter.
Entire Agreement
8.10 . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed in the State of New York.
Governing Law
8.11 . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement, and shall become effective when one or more such counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other parties.
Counterparts
8.12 . In the event any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. The parties shall endeavor in good-faith negotiations to replace the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions, the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions.
Severability
8.13 . Except as otherwise provided herein, this Agreement is solely for the benefit of FNF, each member of FNT Group and each member of the FIS Group. This Agreement should not be deemed to confer upon third parties any remedy, claim, liability, reimbursement, claim of action or other rights in excess of those existing without reference to this Agreement.
No Third Party Beneficiaries
8.14 . The failure of any party to require strict performance by any other party of any provision in this Agreement will not waive or diminish that party's right to demand strict performance thereafter of that or any other provision hereof.
Waivers
 
8.15 . All payments to be made by any party under this Agreement may be netted against payments due to such party under this Agreement, but otherwise shall be made without setoff, counterclaim or withholding, all of which are hereby expressly waived.
Setoff
8.16 . This Agreement may not be modified or amended except by an agreement in writing signed by each of the parties hereto.
Amendments
8.17 . Schedule I shall be construed with and as an integral part of this Agreement to the same extent as if the same had been set forth verbatim herein.
Schedules
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has caused this Agreement to be executed by a duly authorized officer as of the date first above written.
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
Execution Version
 
 
 
 
 
 
     This Cross-Indemnity Agreement (this "Agreement") is entered into as of October 23, 2006, by and between , a Georgia corporation ("FIS"), and , a Delaware corporation ("FNT").
Fidelity National Information Services, Inc.
Fidelity National Title Group, Inc.
     WHEREAS, FIS and Fidelity National Financial, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("FNF"), have entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 25, 2006, as amended and restated as of September 12, 2006 (the "Merger Agreement"), providing among other things for the merger of FNF with and into FIS (the "Merger");
     WHEREAS, FNT and FNF have entered into a Securities Exchange and Distribution Agreement, dated as of June 25, 2006, as amended and restated as of September 12, 2006 (the "SEDA"), providing among other things for the transfer by FNF to FNT of all of the shares of capital stock of certain of FNF's subsidiaries and certain other assets, certain related reorganization transactions and the distribution prior to the Effective Time (as defined in the Merger Agreement) of the Merger of all of the shares of capital stock of FNT held by FNF on a pro rata basis to the holders of the common stock of FNF (the "Spin-off");
     WHEREAS, following the Spin-off, FNT will cease to be an Affiliate of FNF or FIS; and
     WHEREAS, in connection with the Spin-off, FNT and FIS desire to indemnify each other on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth below;
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and of the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements set forth herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Section 1.1.
General.
     As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
     "Action" means any demand, action, lawsuit, countersuit, arbitration, inquiry, proceeding or investigation by or before any Governmental Entity or any arbitration or mediation tribunal.
     "Affiliate" means, with respect to any specified Person, a Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such specified Person; , , that, for purposes of this Agreement, no member of either Group shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of any member of the other Group.
provided
however
 
As used herein, "control" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through ownership of voting securities or other interests, by contract or otherwise.
     "Agreement" has the meaning given in the Preamble.
     "Arbitrator" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.3(c).
     "Assumption Agreement" means that certain Assumption Agreement of even date herewith between FNT and FNF.
     "Business Day" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in Jacksonville, Florida or New York, New York.
     "Claim Notice" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(a).
     "Claimed Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(a).
     "Controlling Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(d)(ii).
     "Dispute" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.3(a).
     "FIS" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
     "FIS Governmental Filing" means any report, schedule, form, statement or other document filed by any member of the FIS Group with any Governmental Entity, excluding Tax Returns (as defined in the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement).
     "FIS Group" means, collectively, FIS, the FIS Subsidiaries and each Person that is an Affiliate of FIS immediately after the Spin-off or thereafter becomes an Affiliate of FIS, but shall not include FNF or, prior to the closing of the Leasing Merger, Leasing or any Leasing Subsidiary.
     "FIS Indemnified Parties" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1.
     "FIS Subsidiaries" means all direct and indirect Subsidiaries of FIS, including, after the closing of the Leasing Merger, Leasing and the Leasing Subsidiaries.
     "FNF" has the meaning given in the Recitals.
     "FNT" has the meaning given in the Preamble.
     "FNT Governmental Filing" means any report, schedule, form, statement or other document filed by any member of the FNT Group with any Governmental Entity, excluding Tax Returns (as defined in the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement).
     "FNT Group" means, collectively, FNT, the FNT Subsidiaries and each Person that is an Affiliate of FNT immediately after the Spin-off or thereafter becomes an Affiliate of FNT.
 
     "FNT Indemnified Parties" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2.
     "FNT Subsidiaries" means all direct and indirect Subsidiaries of FNT.
     "GAAP" means U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, consistently applied.
     "Governmental Entity" means any court, tribunal, arbitrator or governmental or regulatory official, authority or agency, domestic or foreign.
     "Group" means either the FIS Group or the FNT Group, as the context requires.
     "Indemnifiable Losses" mean all losses, claims, demands, damages, liabilities, judgments, dues, penalties, assessments, fines (civil, criminal or administrative), obligations, liens, forfeitures, settlements, payments, costs, fees or expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses and any other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating, prosecuting or defending an Action), of any nature or kind, including any reasonable out-of-pocket fees, costs or expenses of enforcing any indemnity hereunder; that "Indemnifiable Losses" shall not include (i) any Taxes, (ii) any indirect, special, consequential or punitive damages except for indirect, special, consequential or punitive damages paid or awarded to a third party in a Third-Party Claim, or (iii) any of the foregoing items to the extent caused by, resulting from or arising out of the gross negligence, willful misconduct or fraud of such Indemnitee or its Affiliates.
provided
     "Indemnified Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(a).
     "Indemnifying Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(a).
     "Indemnitee" means a Person who or which may seek indemnification under this Agreement.
     "Leasing" means FNF Capital Leasing, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
     "Leasing Merger" means the merger of Leasing with and into FIS Capital Leasing, Inc. pursuant to the Leasing Merger Agreement.
     "Leasing Merger Agreement" means the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of September 12, 2006, among Leasing, FIS and FIS Capital Leasing, Inc.
     "Merger" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
     "Merger Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
     "Non-controlling Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(d)(ii).
     "NYSE" means the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
     "Person" means an individual, a partnership, a corporation, a limited liability company, an association, a joint stock company, a trust, a joint venture, an unincorporated organization and a governmental entity or any department, agency, or political subdivision thereof.
 
     "Representatives" means, with respect to any Person, any of such Person's directors, officers, employees, agents, consultants, advisors, accountants or attorneys.
     "SEDA" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
     "Spin-off" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
     "Steering Committee" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.3(a).
     "Subsidiary" means with respect to any specified Person, any corporation or other legal entity of which such Person controls or owns, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent (50%) of the stock or other equity interest entitled to vote on the election of the members of the board of directors or similar governing body.
     "Tax" and "Taxes" each shall have the meaning provided in the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement entered into between FNF, FNT and FIS as of the date hereof.
     "Tax Disaffiliation Agreement" has the meaning provided in the Merger Agreement.
     "Third-Party Claim" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(d)(i).
     "Transferred Business" has the meaning provided in the SEDA.
Section 1.2.
Interpretation.
     (a) For purposes of this Agreement (including all exhibits, schedules and amendments), unless the context otherwise requires, (i) all terms defined herein include the plural as well as the singular, and the masculine, feminine or neuter gender shall be deemed to include the others whenever the context so requires, (ii) all accounting terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them under GAAP and (iii) references to any Person include successors of such Person by consolidation and merger and transferees of all or substantially all its assets ( that references to FNF shall not be deemed to include FIS and , , that such successor has duly assumed in writing all such Person's obligations, if any, hereunder).
provided
provided
further
     (b) Words such as "herein," "hereinafter," "hereof," "hereto," "hereby" and "hereunder," and words of like import refer to this Agreement, unless the context requires otherwise.
     (c) References herein to any agreement or other instrument shall, unless the context otherwise requires (or the definition thereof otherwise specifies), be deemed references to the same as it may from time to time be changed, amended or extended in accordance with its terms.
     (d) All references in this Agreement to times of the day shall be to the city of Jacksonville, Florida time.
 
Section 2.1.
Indemnification by FNT Group.
     FNT will indemnify, defend and hold harmless each member of the FIS Group, each of their respective past, present and future Representatives, and each of their respective successors and assigns (collectively, the "FIS Indemnified Parties") from and against any and all Indemnifiable Losses incurred or suffered by the FIS Indemnified Parties to the extent arising or resulting from the following, whether such Indemnifiable Losses arise or accrue prior to, on or following the date hereof or the date on which any member of the FNT Group became a member of the FNT Group:
     (a) the ownership or operation of the assets or properties, the operations or conduct of the business, and the employee retirement and benefit plans and financial statements, of any member of the FNT Group;
     (b) any breach by any member of the FNT Group of this Agreement, any other agreement to which any of them is a party, any of their respective certificates of incorporation or by-laws, or any law or regulation;
     (c) any untrue statement of, or omission to state, a material fact in any FIS Governmental Filing to the extent it was as a result of information about a member of the FNT Group;
     (d) any untrue statement of, or omission to state, a material fact in any FNT Governmental Filing, except to the extent the statement was about a member of the FIS Group;
     (e) any Action brought by a third party to the extent relating to the transactions contemplated by the SEDA (other than the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement or the Leasing Merger Agreement); and
     (f) the provision of services by or employment of any Representative with respect to the FNT Group (including the Transferred Business prior to the date it is transferred to FNT), and the termination of such services or employment.
Section 2.2. .
Indemnification by FIS Group
     FIS will indemnify, defend and hold harmless each member of the FNT Group, each of their respective past, present and future Representatives, and each of their respective successors and assigns (collectively, the "FNT Indemnified Parties") from and against any and all Indemnifiable Losses incurred or suffered by the FNT Indemnified Parties to the extent arising or resulting from the following, whether such Indemnifiable Losses arise or accrue prior to, on or following the date hereof or the date on which any member of the FIS Group became a member of the FIS Group:
     (a) the ownership or operation of the assets or properties, the operations or conduct of the business, and the employee retirement and benefit plans and financial statements, of any member of the FIS Group;
 
     (b) any breach by any member of the FIS Group of this Agreement, any other agreement to which any of them is a party, any of their respective certificates of incorporation or by-laws, or any law or regulation;
     (c) any untrue statement of, or omission to state, a material fact in any FNT Governmental Filing to the extent it was as a result of information about a member of the FIS Group;
     (d) any untrue statement of, or omission to state, a material fact in any FIS Governmental Filing, except to the extent the statement was about a member of the FNT Group;
     (e) any Action brought by a third party to the extent relating to the transactions contemplated by either (i) the Merger Agreement or the Leasing Merger Agreement (other than the transactions contemplated by the SEDA) or (ii) the Amended and Restated Stock Purchase Agreement between FIS, FNF and the purchasers named therein dated March 8, 2005; and
     (f) the provision of services by or employment of any Representative with respect to the FIS Group, and the termination of such services or employment.
Section 2.3. .
Claim Procedure
     (a) . A party that seeks indemnity under this Article 2 (an "Indemnified Party") will give written notice (a "Claim Notice") to the party from whom indemnification is sought (an "Indemnifying Party"), whether the Indemnifiable Losses sought arise from matters solely between the parties or from Third-Party Claims. The Claim Notice must contain (i) a description and, if known, estimated amount (the "Claimed Amount") of any Indemnifiable Losses incurred or reasonably expected to be incurred by the Indemnified Party, (ii) a reasonable explanation of the basis for the Claim Notice to the extent of facts then known by the Indemnified Party, and (iii) a demand for payment of those Indemnifiable Losses. No delay or deficiency on the part of the Indemnified Party in so notifying the Indemnifying Party will relieve the Indemnifying Party of any liability or obligation hereunder except to the extent that any Indemnifiable Losses are caused by, arise out of or are increased by such failure.
Claim Notice
     (b) . Within 30 days after delivery of a Claim Notice, the Indemnifying Party will deliver to the Indemnified Party a written response in which the Indemnifying Party will either: (i) agree that the Indemnified Party is entitled to receive all of the Claimed Amount, in which case the Indemnifying Party will pay the Claimed Amount in accordance with a payment and distribution method reasonably acceptable to the Indemnified Party; or (ii) dispute that the Indemnified Party is entitled to receive all or any portion of the Claimed Amount, in which case the parties will resort to the dispute resolution procedures set forth in Section 3.3.
Response to Notice of Claim
     (c) . In the event that the Indemnifying Party disputes the Claimed Amount, as soon as practicable but in no event later than ten Business Days after the receipt of the notice referenced in Section 2.3(b)(ii) hereof, the parties will begin the process of resolving the matter in accordance with the dispute resolution provisions of Section 3.3 hereof. Upon ultimate resolution thereof, the parties will take such actions as are reasonably necessary to comply with such resolution.
Contested Claims
 
(d) .
Third-Party Claims
     (i) In the event that the Indemnified Party provides a Claim Notice in respect of the assertion of any claim or the commencement of any Action by a Person who is not a member of either Group (collectively, a "Third-Party Claim") with respect to which the Indemnifying Party may be obligated to provide indemnification under this Article 2, such Claim Notice will be accompanied by any documentation submitted by such third party and will describe in reasonable detail (to the extent known by the Indemnified Party) the facts constituting the basis for such Third-Party Claim and the amount of the claimed Indemnifiable Losses. Within 20 Business Days after delivery of such notification, the Indemnifying Party may, upon written notice thereof to the Indemnified Party, assume control of the defense of such Third-Party Claim with counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Party. During any period in which the Indemnifying Party has not so assumed control of such defense, the Indemnified Party will control such defense.
     (ii) The party not controlling such defense (the "Non-controlling Party") may participate therein at its own expense; , , that if the Indemnifying Party assumes control of such defense and the Indemnified Party concludes that the Indemnifying Party and the Indemnified Party have conflicting interests or different defenses available with respect to such Third-Party Claim, the reasonable fees and expenses of one separate counsel to all Indemnified Parties will be considered "Indemnifiable Losses" for purposes of this Agreement. The party controlling such defense (the "Controlling Party") will keep the Non-controlling Party reasonably advised of the status of such Third-Party Claim and the defense thereof and will consider in good faith recommendations made by the Non-controlling Party with respect thereto. The Non-controlling Party will furnish the Controlling Party with such information as it may have with respect to such Third-Party Claim (including copies of any summons, complaint or other pleading which may have been served on such party and any written claim, demand, invoice, billing or other document evidencing or asserting the same) and will otherwise cooperate with and assist, at no cost, the Controlling Party in the defense of such Third-Party Claim.
provided
however
     (iii) The Indemnifying Party will not agree to any settlement of, or the entry of any judgment arising from, any such Third-Party Claim without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; , , that the consent of the Indemnified Party will not be required if (A) the Indemnifying Party agrees in writing to pay any amounts payable pursuant to such settlement or judgment, (B) such settlement or judgment includes a full, complete and unconditional release of the Indemnified Party from further liability, and (C) such settlement or judgment is only for monetary damages. The Indemnified Party will not agree to any settlement of, or the entry of any judgment arising from, any such Third-Party Claim without the prior written consent of the Indemnifying Party, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
provided
however
 
Section 2.4. .
Contribution
     (a) If the indemnification provided for in this Article 2 is unavailable to, or insufficient to hold harmless an Indemnified Party under hereof in respect of any Indemnifiable Losses referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Party as a result of such Indemnifiable Losses in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Indemnifying Party and the Indemnified Party in connection with the actions which resulted in Indemnifiable Losses as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
Section 2.1(c), 2.1(d), 2.2(c) or 2.2(d)
     (b) The parties hereto agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 2.4 were determined by a pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (a) above. The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Party as a result of the Indemnifiable Losses referred to in paragraph (a) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Party in connection with investigating any claim or defending any Action. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
Section 2.5. .
Limitations
     (a) . The amount of any Indemnifiable Losses for which indemnification is provided under this Agreement will be net of any amounts actually recovered by the Indemnified Party from any third Person (including amounts actually recovered under the Indemnified Party's insurance policies) with respect to such Indemnifiable Losses. Any Indemnifying Party hereunder will be subrogated to the rights of the Indemnified Party upon payment in full of the amount of the relevant Indemnifiable Losses. An insurer who would otherwise be obligated to pay any claim will not be relieved of the responsibility with respect thereto or, solely by virtue of the indemnification provisions hereof, have any subrogation rights with respect thereto. If any Indemnified Party recovers an amount from a third Person in respect of Indemnifiable Losses for which indemnification is provided in this Agreement after the full amount of such Indemnifiable Losses has been paid by an Indemnifying Party or after an Indemnifying Party has made a partial payment of such Indemnifiable Losses and the amount received from the third Person exceeds the remaining unpaid balance of such Indemnifiable Losses, then the Indemnified Party will promptly remit to the Indemnifying Party the excess (if any) of (X) the sum of the amount theretofore paid by such Indemnifying Party in respect of such Indemnifiable Losses plus the amount received from the third Person in respect thereof, less (Y) the full amount of such Indemnifiable Losses.
Insurance Proceeds; Third Party Coverage
     (b) . Notwithstanding any other provision hereof to the contrary, this Agreement is not intended to change the allocation of liability for any matter in any other existing or future agreement between any member of the FNT Group and any member of the FIS Group, to all of which this Agreement is hereby made subject. Without limiting the foregoing, for the avoidance of doubt, FIS shall have no liability hereunder for any liability or obligation of FNF that is the subject of the Assumption Agreement entered into between FNF and FNT as of the date hereof, it being understood that this sentence is not intended to limit any rights that FNT may have other than under this Agreement, including any right to pursue any
Other Agreements
 
liability of FIS existing as a matter of law for indemnification, subrogation, contribution or reimbursement to the extent that FNF would have had such a right in connection with a liability or obligation of FNF assumed by FNT under the Assumption Agreement.
Section 3.1.
Governing Law.
     This Agreement shall be governed by, and interpreted and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, regardless of the laws that might otherwise govern under applicable principles of conflicts of laws thereof.
Section 3.2. .
Jurisdiction
     Subject to Section 3.3, if any Dispute arises out of or in connection with this Agreement, except as expressly contemplated by another provision of this Agreement, the parties irrevocably (and the parties will cause each other member of their respective Group to irrevocably) (a) consent and submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of federal and state courts located in Duval County, Florida, (b) waive any objection to that choice of forum based on venue or to the effect that the forum is not convenient, and (c) WAIVE TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL OR ADJUDICATION BY JURY.
Section 3.3. .
Dispute Resolution
     (a) . FIS and FNT mutually desire that friendly collaboration continue between them. Accordingly, they will try, and they will cause their respective Group members to try, to resolve in an amicable manner all disagreements and misunderstandings connected with their respective rights and obligations under this Agreement. In furtherance thereof, in the event of any dispute or disagreement (a "Dispute") between any FIS Group member and any FNT Group member as to the interpretation of any provision of this Agreement (or the performance of obligations hereunder), the matter, upon written request of either party, will be referred for resolution to a steering committee established pursuant to this Section 3.3(a) (the "Steering Committee"). The Steering Committee will have two members, one of whom will be appointed by FIS and the other of whom will be appointed by FNT, and each of whom shall be a senior executive of the party appointing the member. The Steering Committee will make a good faith effort to promptly resolve all Disputes referred to it. Steering Committee decisions will be unanimous and will be binding on FIS and FNT. If the Steering Committee does not agree to a resolution of a Dispute within 30 days after the reference of the matter to it, then the parties will be free to exercise the remedies available to them under applicable law, subject to Sections 3.3(b) and 3.3(c).
Amicable Resolution
     (b) . If the Steering Committee is unable to resolve any Dispute as contemplated by Section 3.3(a), either FIS or FNT may demand mediation of the Dispute by written notice to the other in which case the two parties will select a mediator within 14 days after the demand. Neither party may unreasonably withhold consent to the selection of the mediator. Each of FIS and FNT will bear its own costs of mediation but both parties will share the costs of the mediator equally.
Mediation
 
     (c) . In the event that the Dispute is not resolved in an amicable manner as set forth in Section 3.3(a) or through mediation pursuant to Section 3.3(b), the latter within 30 days of the submission of the Dispute to mediation, either party involved in the Dispute may submit the dispute to binding arbitration pursuant to this Section 3.3(c). All Disputes submitted to arbitration pursuant to this Section 3.3(c) shall be resolved in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association, unless the parties involved mutually agree to utilize an alternate set of rules, in which event all references herein to the American Arbitration Association shall be deemed modified accordingly. Expedited rules shall apply regardless of the amount at issue. Arbitration proceedings hereunder may be initiated by either party making a written request to the American Arbitration Association, together with any appropriate filing fee, at the office of the American Arbitration Association in Orlando, Florida. The arbitration shall be by a single qualified arbitrator ("Arbitrator") experienced in the matters at issue, such Arbitrator to be mutually agreed upon by FIS and FNT. If the parties fail to agree on an Arbitrator within 30 days after notice of commencement of arbitration, the American Arbitration Association shall, upon the request of any party to the dispute or difference, appoint the Arbitrator. All arbitration proceedings shall be held in the city of Jacksonville, Florida in a location to be specified by the Arbitrator (or any place agreed to by the parties and the Arbitrator). Any order or determination of the arbitral tribunal shall be final and binding upon the parties to the arbitration as to matters submitted and may be enforced by any party to the Dispute in any court having jurisdiction over the subject matter or over any of the parties. The parties agree that the length of time to be provided in any arbitration action to conduct discovery shall be limited to 90 days, the length of time to conduct the arbitration hearing shall be limited to ten days (with each party having equal time) and that the Arbitrator shall be required to render his or her decision within 30 days of the completion of the arbitration hearing. All costs and expenses incurred by the Arbitrator shall be shared equally by the parties. Each party shall bear its own costs and expenses in connection with any such arbitration proceeding. The use of any alternative dispute resolution procedures hereunder will not be construed under the doctrines of laches, waiver or estoppel to affect adversely the rights of either party.
Arbitration
     (d) .
Non-Exclusive Remedy
     (i) Nothing in this Section 3.3 shall prevent either FIS or FNT from commencing formal litigation proceedings or seeking injunctive or similar relief if any delay resulting from efforts to mediate such Dispute could result in serious and irreparable injury to FIS, FNT or any member of either party's Group.
     (ii) Nothing in this Section 3.3 shall prevent either FIS or FNT from immediately seeking injunctive or interim relief in the event of any actual or threatened breach of any confidentiality provisions of this Agreement. If an arbitral tribunal has not been appointed with respect to any Dispute at the time of such actual or threatened breach, then either party may seek such injunctive or interim relief from any court with jurisdiction over the matter. If an arbitral tribunal has been appointed with respect to any Dispute at the time of such actual or threatened breach, then the parties agree to submit to the jurisdiction of the state and federal courts of Duval County, Florida, pursuant to Section 3.2, with respect to such matter.
 
     (e) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, FIS and FNT are the only members of their respective Group entitled to commence a dispute resolution procedure under this Agreement, whether pursuant to Section 2.3, this Section 3.3 or otherwise, and each party will cause its respective Group members not to commence any dispute resolution procedure other than through such party as provided in this Section 3.3(e).
Commencement of Dispute Resolution Procedure
Section 3.4. .
Access to Information
     Upon reasonable notice, each party (the "Providing Party") shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the other party (the "Requesting Party") and its Representatives during normal business hours and at the expense of the Requesting Party such assistance and access to information, including all original agreements, documents, books, records and files, of the Providing Party and its subsidiaries as the Requesting Party shall reasonably request in connection with financial reporting and accounting matters, the preparation of and filing of any tax returns, reports or forms or the defense of any tax claim or assessment or Third-Party Claim, the preparation and filing of reports and other filings with any Governmental Entity or any other reasonable purpose, that such assistance and access does not unreasonably disrupt the normal operations of the Providing Party or any of its subsidiaries. Except as required by applicable law, all confidential information of the Providing Party so obtained by the Requesting Party shall be kept confidential by the Requesting Party.
provided
Section 3.5. .
Notices
     Each party giving any notice required or permitted under this Agreement shall give the notice in writing and use one of the following methods of delivery to the party to be notified, at the address set forth below or another address of which the sending party has been notified in accordance with this Section 3.5: (a) personal delivery; (b) facsimile or telecopy transmission with a reasonable method of confirming transmission; (c) commercial overnight courier with a reasonable method of confirming delivery; or (d) pre-paid, United States of America certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. Notice to a party is effective for purposes of this Agreement only if given as provided in this Section 3.5 and will be deemed given on the date that the intended addressee actually receives the notice.
     If to FIS, to:
Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. 601 Riverside Avenue Jacksonville, FL 32204 Fax : (904) 357-1005 Attention: Chief Executive Officer and General Counsel
     If to FNT, to:
Fidelity National Title Group, Inc. 601 Riverside Ave., Jacksonville, FL 32207 Fax: (904) 854-4380 Attention: Chief Executive Officer and General Counsel
 
Section 3.6.
Binding Effect and Assignment.
     This Agreement binds and benefits the parties and their respective successors and assigns. Neither party may assign any of its rights or delegate any of its obligations under this Agreement without the written consent of the other party, which consent may be withheld in such party's sole and absolute discretion, and any assignment or attempted assignment in violation of the foregoing will be null and void. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, either party may assign this Agreement in connection with a merger transaction in which such party is not the surviving entity or the sale of all or substantially all of its assets.
Section 3.7. .
Severability
     If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force, if the essential terms and conditions of this Agreement for each party remain valid, binding and enforceable.
Section 3.8. .
Entire Agreement
     This Agreement (and the other agreements executed and delivered by the parties in connection with the SEDA and the Merger Agreement) contain the entire agreement and understanding between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. All prior and contemporaneous negotiations and agreements between the parties with respect to the matters contained herein are superseded by this Agreement.
Section 3.9. .
Counterparts
     The parties may execute this Agreement in multiple counterparts, each of which constitutes an original as against the party that signed it, and all of which together constitute one agreement. The signatures of both parties need not appear on the same counterpart. The delivery of signed counterparts by facsimile or email transmission that includes a copy of the sending party's signature is as effective as signing and delivering the counterpart in person.
Section 3.10. .
Expenses
     Except as otherwise set forth herein, each party shall bear its own costs incurred in connection with this Agreement.
Section 3.11. .
Amendment
     The parties may amend this Agreement only by a written agreement signed by each party to be bound by the amendment and that identifies itself as an amendment to this Agreement.
 
Section 3.12. .
Waiver
     The parties may waive a provision of this Agreement only by a writing signed by the party intended to be bound by the waiver. A party is not prevented from enforcing any right, remedy or condition in the party's favor because of any failure or delay in exercising any right or remedy or in requiring satisfaction of any condition, except to the extent that the party specifically waives the same in writing. A written waiver given for one matter or occasion is effective only in that instance and only for the purpose stated. A waiver once given is not to be construed as a waiver for any other matter or occasion. Any enumeration of a party's rights and remedies in this Agreement is not intended to be exclusive, and a party's rights and remedies are intended to be cumulative to the extent permitted by law and include any rights and remedies authorized in law or in equity.
Section 3.13. .
Authority
     Each party represents to the other that (a) it has the corporate or other requisite power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement, (b) the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action, (c) it has duly and validly executed and delivered this Agreement, and (d) this Agreement is a legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and general equity principles.
Section 3.14. .
Construction of Agreement
     (a) Where this Agreement states that a party "will" or "shall" perform in some manner or otherwise act or omit to act, it means that the party is legally obligated to do so in accordance with this Agreement.
     (b) The captions, titles and headings, and table of contents, included in this Agreement are for convenience only, and do not affect this Agreement's construction or interpretation. When a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article or a Section, exhibit or schedule, such reference will be to an Article or Section of, or an exhibit or schedule to, this Agreement unless otherwise indicated.
     (c) Neither this Agreement nor any uncertainty or ambiguity herein shall be construed against any party under any rule of construction, and no party shall be considered the draftsman. The parties acknowledge and agree that this Agreement has been reviewed, negotiated, and accepted by all parties and their attorneys and shall be construed and interpreted according to the ordinary meaning of the words used so as fairly to accomplish the purposes and intentions of all parties hereto.
     (d) This Agreement is for the sole benefit of the parties hereto and their respective Group members and, except for the indemnification rights of the FIS Indemnified Parties and the FNT Indemnified Parties under this Agreement, does not, and is not intended to, confer any legal or equitable rights, remedies or claims in favor of any Person (including any employee or stockholder of FIS or FNT) other than the parties signing this Agreement and their respective Group members.
 
     (e) The words "including," "includes," or "include" are to be read as listing non-exclusive examples of the matters referred to, whether or not words such as "without limitation" or "but not limited to" are used in each instance.
     (f) Any reference in this Agreement to a "member" of a Group means a party to this Agreement or another Person referred to in the definition of FNT Group or FIS Group, as applicable.
Section 3.15. .
Termination
     This Agreement may be terminated only by written agreement executed by both FNT and FIS.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties has caused this Agreement to be executed on its behalf by a duly authorized officer on the date first set forth above.

 
EXHIBIT 99.3
Execution Version
     This (this "Agreement"), dated as of October 23, 2006 (the "Effective Date"), is entered into by and between , a Delaware corporation ("FNT"), and ., a Georgia corporation ("FIS"). FNT and FIS are each herein referred to as a "Party" and together, as the "Parties."
TRANSITION LICENSE AGREEMENT
FIDELITY NATIONAL TITLE GROUP, INC.
FIDELITY NATIONAL INFORMATION SERVICES, INC
     WHEREAS, in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by that certain Securities Exchange and Distribution Agreement dated as of June 25, 2006, as amended and restated as of September 18, 2006 (as so amended and restated, the "Distribution Agreement"), between Fidelity National Financial, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), and FNT, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by that certain the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of June 25, 2006 as previously amended and as amended and restated as of September 18, 2006 (as so amended and restated, the ""), between FNF and FIS, the Parties wish to enter into this agreement; and
FNF
FIS Merger Agreement
     WHEREAS, FNT has the authority and power, or has caused members of the FNT Group to authorize and empower FNT, to deliver the rights herein granted to FIS, and FIS has the authority and power, or has caused members of the FIS Group to authorize and empower FIS, to deliver the rights herein granted to FNT;
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and of the cross representations, warranties, covenants and agreements set forth herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
1. Certain Definitions
 
(i) the Master IT Services Agreement (as hereinafter defined);
(ii) the Amended and Restated Corporate Services Agreement between FNT and FIS;
(iii) the Intellectual Property Cross License Agreement between FNT and FIS;
(iv) the Trademark Assignment Agreement made by FNF Intellectual Property Holdings, Inc., a subsidiary of FNT, to and in favor of FIS
(v) the Amended and Restated OTS and OTS GOLD Software License Agreement between Rocky Mountain Support Services, Inc. and Fidelity National Tax Services, Inc.;
(vi) the Amended and Restated SIMON Software License Agreement between Rocky Mountain Support Services, Inc. and Fidelity National Tax Services, Inc.;
(vii) the Amended and Restated TEAM Software License Agreement between Rocky Mountain Support Services, Inc. and Fidelity National Tax Services, Inc.;
(viii) the Amended and Restated SoftPro Software License Agreement between Fidelity National Information Solutions, Inc. and FNT;
(ix) the eLender Services Agreement, among FNT, FIS, LSI Title Company and Rocky Mountain Support Services, Inc. regarding "eLender Solutions" and LSI;
(x) the Amended and Restated TitlePoint Software Development and Property Allocation Agreement between Rocky Mountain Support Services, Inc. and Property Insight, LLC;
(xi) the Title Plant Maintenance Agreement dated as of March 4, 2005 by and among Rocky Mountain Support Services, Inc., Security Union Title Insurance Company, Chicago Title Insurance Company, Ticor Title Insurance Company;
(xii) the Amended and Restated Master Title Plant Access Agreement between Property Insight, LLC and Rocky Mountain Support Services, Inc.;
(xiii) the Title Plant Management Agreement dated as of May 17, 2005 between Property Insight, LLC and Ticor Title Insurance Company of Florida;
(xiv) the Amended and Restated Title Plant Master Services Agreement between Rocky Mountain Support Services, Inc. and Property Insight, LLC;
(xv) the Amended and Restated Starters Repository Access Agreement between FNT and Fidelity National Information Services, LLC;
(xvi) the Amended and Restated Back Plant Repository Access Agreement between FNT and Fidelity National Information Services, LLC;
(xvii) the Amended and Restated Lease Agreement between Fidelity Information Services, Inc. and FNT;
(xviii) the SubLease Agreement between FNT and Fidelity Information Services, Inc.;
 
(xix) the Property Management Agreement between FNT and Fidelity Information Services, Inc.;
(xx) the Telecommunications Services Agreement between FNT and Fidelity Information Services, Inc.; and
(xxi) any other agreement that would fall within the definition of "Intercompany Agreements" in the FIS Merger Agreement, as amended and as may hereafter be amended from time to time.
2. Grant of License to Use Certain FNT Marks
 
(i) Sublicenses may be granted hereunder by FIS solely to members of the FIS Group, effective upon written notice to FNT, which notice discloses the name and
 
address of the sublicensee. Notwithstanding the forgoing, FIS shall not grant sublicenses, directly or indirectly, of the FNT Marks to a Competitor of FNT or any FNT Subsidiary.
(ii) In the event that FIS sublicenses to a sublicensee, FIS agrees to impose on each of its sublicensees obligations to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including without limitation, obligations regarding confidentiality and shall not permit any sublicensee to grant further sublicenses without the prior written approval of FNT.
(iii) FIS (A) shall be and remain liable to FNT for each sublicensee and any breach of the terms of the applicable sublicense and this Agreement and (B) shall use its commercially reasonable best efforts to minimize any damage (current and prospective) done to FNT as a result of any such breach.
In addition to any copies that FIS or its sublicensee may make as otherwise permitted hereunder, FIS or its sublicensee may make such number of copies of the FNT Marks as reasonably deemed necessary by it for backup or disaster recovery. FIS shall not remove, obscure or materially vary (or permit its sublicensees to remove, obscure or materially vary) any of the FNT Marks. Copies of the FNT Marks shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
3. Copies; Alternations and Variations.
For clarification purposes, all FNT Marks shall at all times be exclusively owned, as between the Parties, by FNT, and the entities within the FIS Group shall have no rights, title or interest therein, other than the rights set forth in this Agreement. Nothing contained herein shall preclude or limit FNT's ability to sell or otherwise encumber, or cause to sell or be encumbered, either of the FNT Marks, subject, however, to the license granted hereunder.
4. Ownership.
Each Party will notify the other Party promptly of any acts of infringement or unfair competition with respect to any of the FNT Marks of which a Party or any sublicensee of that Party becomes aware or obtains actual knowledge alleging in writing that the FNT Marks or its use infringes the rights of a third party or constitutes unfair competition. In such event, the Parties will cooperate and cause their applicable sublicensees to cooperate, at each Party's own expense, with the other Party to defend or prosecute the claim. All costs and expenses of defending or prosecuting any such action or proceeding, together with any recovery therefrom, will be borne by and accrue to the applicable Party or sublicensee that is party to the action or proceeding.
5. Enforcement; Infringement.
6. Limitations
 
GRANTED HEREUNDER, INCLUDING ANY REPRESENTATION AS TO: (i) A PARTY'S RIGHT TO GRANT LICENSES, (ii) THE SCOPE OF FNT MARKS FOR ANY SPECIFIC GOODS OR SERVICES, OR (iii) THE TITLE OF THE FNT MARKS OR ABSENCE OF ANY THIRD PARTY INFRINGEMENT OF SUCH FNT MARKS. FNT DOES NOT UNDERTAKE ANY COMMITMENT TO MAINTAIN OR DEFEND ITS RIGHTS IN ANY OF THE FNT MARKS.
FIS shall and shall cause its sublicensees to: (1) notify FNT promptly of any unauthorized possession, use, or knowledge of the FNT Marks by any Person which shall become known to it or any attempt to use or acquire knowledge of any FNT Marks without authorization (collectively, ), (2) promptly furnish to FNT full details of the Unauthorized Access and use reasonable efforts to assist FNT in investigating or preventing the reoccurrence of any Unauthorized Access, (3) cooperate with FNT in any litigation and investigation against third parties deemed necessary by FNT to protect its proprietary rights, and (4) promptly take affirmative action to prevent a reoccurrence of any such Unauthorized Access.
7. Unauthorized Use.
"Unauthorized Access"
8. Dispute Resolution
 
 
9. Term and Termination
(i) FIS or, if applicable, an FIS Subsidiary to which a sublicense hereunder has been granted, shall admit in writing its inability to, or be generally unable to, pay its debts as such debts become due; or
(ii) FIS or, if applicable, an FIS Subsidiary to which a sublicense hereunder has been granted, shall (1) apply for or consent to the appointment of, or the taking of possession by, a receiver, custodian, trustee, examiner or liquidator of itself or of all or a substantial part of its property or assets, (2) make a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, (3) commence a voluntary case under the Bankruptcy Code, (4) file a petition seeking to take advantage of any other law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, liquidation, dissolution, arrangement or winding-up, or composition or readjustment of debts, (5) fail to controvert in a timely and appropriate manner, or acquiesce in writing to, any petition filed against it in an involuntary case under the Bankruptcy Code or (6) take any corporate, partnership or other action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing; or
(iii) a proceeding or case shall be commenced, without the application or consent of FIS or, if applicable, an FIS subsidiary to which a sublicense hereunder has been granted, in any court of competent jurisdiction, seeking (1) its reorganization, liquidation, dissolution, arrangement or winding-up, or the composition or readjustment of its debts under the Bankruptcy Code, (2) the appointment of a receiver, custodian, trustee, examiner, liquidator or the like of such party, or, if applicable, of such subsidiary, or of all or any substantial part of its property or assets under the Bankruptcy Code or (3) similar relief in respect of such party or, if applicable, such subsidiary under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, winding-up, or composition or adjustment of debts, and such proceeding or case shall continue undismissed, or an order, judgment or
 
decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered and continue unstayed and in effect, for a period of sixty (60) days or more days; or
(iv) an order for relief against FIS shall be entered in an involuntary case under the Bankruptcy Code, which shall continue in effect for a period of sixty (60) days or more;
then FNT may, by giving notice thereof to FIS, exercise any termination right, and such termination shall become effective as of the date specified in such termination notice; that where the conditions of this Section 9(c) are met only as to an FIS Subsidiary to which a sublicense hereunder has been granted, then FNT's rights of termination are limited only to such FIS Subsidiary.
provided
10. Miscellaneous Provisions
 
If to FNT, to:
Fidelity National Title Group, Inc. 601 Riverside Avenue Jacksonville, Florida 32204 Attention: General Counsel
If to FIS, to:
Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. 601 Riverside Avenue Jacksonville, Florida 32204 Attention: General Counsel
The address to which such notices, demands, requests, elections or other communications are to be given by either Party may be changed by written notice given by such Party to the other Party pursuant to this Section 10(a).
 
 
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.4
Execution Version
     This (this "Agreement"), dated as of October 23, 2006 is entered into by and between , a Delaware corporation ("FNT"), and , a Georgia corporation ("FIS"). FNT and FIS are each herein referred to as a "Party" and together, as the "Parties."
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY CROSS LICENSE AGREEMENT
Fidelity National Title Group, Inc.
Fidelity National Information Services, Inc.
     WHEREAS, in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by that certain Securities Exchange and Distribution Agreement dated as of June 25, 2006, as amended and restated as of September 18, 2006 (as so amended and restated, the "Distribution Agreement") between Fidelity National Financial, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("FNF"), and FNT, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of June 25, 2006 as previously amended and as amended and restated as of September 18, 2006 (as so amended and restated, the "FIS Merger Agreement"), between FNF and FIS, the Parties wish to enter into this agreement; and
     WHEREAS, FNT has the authority and power, or has caused members of the FNT Group to authorize and empower FNT, to deliver the rights herein granted to FIS, and FIS has the authority and power, or has caused members of the FIS Group to authorize and empower FIS, to deliver the rights herein granted to FNT;
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and of the cross representations, warranties, covenants and agreements set forth herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
1. Certain Definitions
 
(i) the Master IT Services Agreement (as hereinafter defined);
(ii) the Amended and Restated Corporate Services Agreement between FNT and FIS;
(iii) the Transition License Agreement between FNT and FIS;
(iv) the Trademark Assignment Agreement made by FNF Intellectual Property Holdings, Inc., a subsidiary of FNT, to and in favor of FIS
(v) the Amended and Restated OTS and OTS GOLD Software License Agreement between Rocky Mountain Support Services, Inc. and Fidelity National Tax Services, Inc.;
(vi) the Amended and Restated SIMON Software License Agreement between Rocky Mountain Support Services, Inc. and Fidelity National Tax Services, Inc.;
(vii) the Amended and Restated TEAM Software License Agreement between Rocky Mountain Support Services, Inc. and Fidelity National Tax Services, Inc.;
(viii) the Amended and Restated SoftPro Software License Agreement between Fidelity National Information Solutions, Inc. and FNT;
(ix) the eLender Services Agreement, among FNT, FIS, LSI Title Company and Rocky Mountain Support Services, Inc. regarding "eLender Solutions" and LSI;
(x) the Amended and Restated TitlePoint Software Development and Property Allocation Agreement between Rocky Mountain Support Services, Inc. and Property Insight, LLC;
(xi) the Title Plant Maintenance Agreement dated as of March 4, 2005 by and among Rocky Mountain Support Services, Inc., Security Union Title Insurance Company, Chicago Title Insurance Company, Ticor Title Insurance Company;
(xii) the Amended and Restated Master Title Plant Access Agreement between Property Insight, LLC and Rocky Mountain Support Services, Inc.;
(xiii) the Title Plant Management Agreement dated as of May 17, 2005 between Property Insight, LLC and Ticor Title Insurance Company of Florida;
(xiv) the Amended and Restated Title Plant Master Services Agreement between Rocky Mountain Support Services, Inc. and Property Insight, LLC;
 
(xv) the Amended and Restated Starters Repository Access Agreement between FNT and Fidelity National Information Services, LLC;
(xvi) the Amended and Restated Back Plant Repository Access Agreement between FNT and Fidelity National Information Services, LLC;
(xvii) the Amended and Restated Lease Agreement between Fidelity Information Services, Inc. and FNT;
(xviii) the SubLease Agreement between FNT and Fidelity Information Services, Inc.;
(xix) the Property Management Agreement between FNT and Fidelity Information Services, Inc.;
(xx) the Telecommunications Services Agreement between FNT and Fidelity Information Services, Inc.; and
(xxi) any other agreement that would fall within the definition of "Intercompany Agreements" in the FIS Merger Agreement, as amended and as may hereafter be amended from time to time.
 
2. Reciprocal Grants
(i) FIS hereby grants to FNT an irrevocable, non-terminable (except as set forth herein), non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free license, to use, sublicense, make, create improvements of, market, sell and exploit any other rights of ownership now existing or hereafter created with respect to goods and services using or arising from know-how or trade secrets owned by a member of the FIS Group and used by a member of the FNT Group prior to the Effective Date (the "FIS Trade Secrets"), subject to the terms and conditions hereof.
(ii) FNT hereby grants to FIS an irrevocable, non-terminable (except as set forth herein), non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free license, to use, sublicense, make, create improvements of, market, sell and exploit any other rights of ownership now existing or hereafter created with respect to goods and services using or arising from trade secrets or know-how owned by a member of the FNT Group and used by a member of the FIS Group prior to the Effective Date (the "FNT Trade Secrets"), subject to the terms and conditions hereof.
(i) Sublicenses may be granted hereunder by a Licensee Party solely to members of the Licensee Party Group, effective upon written notice to the Granting Party, which notice discloses the specific Trade Secret that has been sublicensed and the name and address of the sublicensee. In no event shall a Licensee Party shall grant sublicenses, directly or indirectly, of the Trade Secrets of the Granting Party to a Competitor of the Granting Party or otherwise provide access to the Trade Secrets of the Granting Party to a Competitor of the Granting Party.
(ii) A Licensee Party may grant sublicenses to any Person who is not in the Licensee Party Group only upon prior written consent of the Granting Party.
(iii) The Licensee Party agrees to impose, on each of its sublicensees, obligations to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including without limitation, obligations
 
regarding confidentiality and the return and/or destruction of Trade Secrets and related documents and materials pursuant to Section 7 hereof and shall not permit any sublicensee to grant further sublicenses without the prior written approval of the Granting Party.
(iv) A Licensee Party (A) shall be and remain liable to the Granting Party for each sublicensee of the Licensee Party and any breach of the terms of the applicable sublicense and this Agreement and (B) shall use its commercially reasonable best efforts to minimize any damage (current and prospective) done to the Granting Party as a result of any such breach.
3. Derivative Works
Title to a derivative work created pursuant to the Master IT Services Agreement shall be determined solely pursuant to the Master IT Services Agreement and shall not be deemed a derivative work under this Agreement.
4. Ownership
5. Enforcement; Infringement
 
6. Limitations
7. Confidentiality
 
8. Dispute Resolution
 
 
9. Term and Termination
 
(i) If, upon a Sale of FIS, FNT reasonably believes that any FNT Trade Secrets primarily related to the business of FNT may become available to a Competitor of FNT, FNT may terminate the license granted hereunder such FNT Trade Secrets upon a reasonable transition period for FIS to develop or acquire replacement know-how or trade secrets, that FNT compensates FIS in full for any loss or expenses that FIS bears in connection with such termination.
provided
(ii) If, upon a Sale of FIS, FIS reasonably believes that any FIS Trade Secrets primarily related to the business of FIS may become available to a Competitor of FIS, FIS may terminate the license granted hereunder such FIS Trade Secrets upon a reasonable transition period for FNT to develop or acquire replacement know-how or trade secrets, that FIS compensates FNT in full for any loss or expenses that FIS bears in connection with such termination.
provided
10. Miscellaneous Provisions
 
If to FNT, to:
Fidelity National Title Group, Inc. 601 Riverside Avenue Jacksonville, Florida 32204 Attention: General Counsel
If to FIS, to:
Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. 601 Riverside Avenue Jacksonville, Florida 32204 Attention: General Counsel
The address to which such notices, demands, requests, elections or other communications are to be given by either Party may be changed by written notice given by such Party to the other Party pursuant to this Section 10(a).
 
 
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
     1. The First American Corporation
     2. Land America Financial Group, Inc.
     3. Stewart Information Services Corp.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.5
Execution Version
     This Master Accounting and Billing Agreement ("Agreement") is made as of October 23, 2006 by and between , a Delaware corporation that, after the consummation of the Transactions (as hereinafter defined), will be known as "Fidelity National Financial, Inc." (together with its subsidiaries, "FNF"), and , a Georgia corporation (together with its subsidiaries, "FIS"). FNF and FIS are herein referred to individual as a "Party" and, collectively, the "Parties".
Fidelity National Title Group, Inc.
Fidelity National Information Services, Inc.
     WHEREAS, the Parties and/or their subsidiaries have previously entered, contemporaneously herewith will enter, and hereafter may enter, into various agreements with each other relating to services, licenses, and other matters, including but not limited to corporate services agreements, a master information technology agreement, software use, software development and intellectual property licenses, a title plant maintenance agreement, starters and back plant repository agreements, a lease and sublease, a telecommunications services agreement, a property management agreement, an aircraft cost sharing agreement, and various cost sharing agreements (together with all other agreements between FNF and/or its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and FIS and/or its subsidiaries, on the other, that the Parties may hereafter enter into, each a "Intercompany Agreement" and collectively, the "Intercompany Agreements"); and
     WHEREAS, in connection with the consummation of the transactions (the "Transactions") contemplated by that certain Securities Exchange and Distribution Agreement dated as of June 25, 2006, as amended and restated as of September 18, 2006 (as so amended and restated, the "Distribution Agreement"), between Fidelity National Financial, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Old FNF") and FNF, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of June 25, 2006 as previously amended and as amended and restated as of September 18, 2006 (as so amended and restated, the "FIS Merger Agreement"), between Old FNF and FIS (pursuant to which Old FNF will merge with and into FIS), the Parties wish to set forth their agreement with regard to the process and procedures to be followed for billing of amounts owing between them from time to time;
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and promises contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Parties, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:
     1. .
Monthly Summary Statement for all Costs and Amounts Owing
          (a) The Parties acknowledge it is their express intention to utilize one master accounting and billing procedure for all amounts that may be owing between them from time to time pursuant to any and all Intercompany Agreements. Until otherwise mutually agreed by the Parties, the Parties contemplate that the accounting and billing procedure applicable to the billing, invoicing and accounting for all amounts that may be owing or may become owing between them pursuant to any and all Intercompany Agreements shall be as set forth on
 
hereto, or such revised version of as may be agreed between the Parties from time to time.
Schedule I
Schedule I
          (b) . It is the Parties express intention that the Monthly Summary Statement include the costs, expenses and obligations owing between the Parties under any and all Intercompany Agreements, as well as any other obligation owing between the Parties mutually designated by the Parties to be included on the Monthly Statement. However, at any time, upon the request of either Party, one or more particular Intercompany Agreement or other obligations may be excluded from the Monthly Summary Statement, for so long as the requesting Party shall desire. At any time and from time to time either Party may also request that one or more particular Intercompany Agreement or other obligations may be added to the Monthly Summary Statement and the other Party shall not unreasonably withhold its agreement to such request.
Inclusion or Exclusion of Particular Intercompany Agreements in the Monthly Summary Statement
     2. . This Agreement shall continue so long as any Intercompany Agreement remains in effect, unless otherwise terminated by the Parties pursuant hereto. This Agreement may be terminated at any time by either Party, upon not less than 60 days' prior written notice.
Term and Termination of this Agreement
     3. Each Party shall keep confidential any and all information concerning the other Party which it may obtain pursuant to the activities described in this Agreement, and agrees not to disclose such information to any person unless authorized to do so by the Party in question. The provisions of this shall not, however, apply to information made generally available to the public by any Party or by third parties through lawful channels, or information which is obtained from a third person who (insofar as is known to the recipient of such information) is lawfully in possession of such information and not in violation of any contractual, legal or fiduciary obligation to a Party with respect to such information.
Confidentiality.
Section 3
     4. .
Miscellaneous
          (a) . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Florida, without regard to the conflicts of laws provisions thereof.
Governing Law
          (b) . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
          (c) . This Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Parties hereto and their respective successors, assigns and affiliates. This Agreement may not be assigned by any Party without the prior consent of the other Parties.
Successors, Assigns and Affiliates
 
          (d) . Any notice or other communication to be given or made under this Agreement ("Notice") shall be in writing and shall be deemed received (i) when delivered personally, (ii) when sent by facsimile, if confirmed by overnight courier service delivered the next day, (iii) on the third business day following the sending thereof by overnight courier service, or (iv) on the third business day following the sending thereof by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. All Notices shall be addressed to the addresses of the Party, or sent by facsimile to their facsimile numbers, as set forth on the signature pages hereof.
Notices
          (e) . This Agreement contains the entire Agreement among the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, between the Parties with respect thereto.
Entire Agreement
          (f) . This Agreement may be amended only by an instrument in writing agreed to by each of the Parties hereto.
Amendments
          (g) . This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first above written. Nothing in this Agreement is intended to amend any substantive provision of any Intercompany Agreement, and it is the express intention of the Parties that this Agreement be interpreted solely as the Parties' mutual desire and understanding with respect to the procedural accounting and billing aspects applicable to each of the Intercompany Agreements. To the extent that the provisions of this Agreement would interfere or conflict with the substantive provisions of any particular Intercompany Agreement, the provisions of the particular Intercompany Agreement shall prevail. Furthermore, to the extent that the nature of the provisions of any particular Intercompany Agreement require that this Agreement's provisions not be respected or applicable thereto, then this Agreement shall not apply to that particular Intercompany Agreement, but shall continue to apply to all other Intercompany Agreement, except to the extent otherwise agreed by the Parties.
Effect and Effectiveness
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused this Agreement to be executed on their behalf by their duly authorized representatives as of the date first set forth above.
 
Unless otherwise mutually agreed by the Parties, the Parties agree that the accounting and billing procedure applicable to the billing, invoicing and accounting for all amounts that may be owing between them pursuant to any and all Intercompany Agreements shall be as set forth
(a) . Subject to the provisions of below, within 30 days after the end of each calendar month, (i) FNF shall prepare and deliver to the FIS chief accounting officer (or his/her designee) a monthly summary statement (each a "Monthly Summary Statement") setting forth all expenses, costs and fees incurred during the preceding calendar month, attributable or allocable to FIS and its subsidiaries, or otherwise owing by FIS to FNF, under all Intercompany Agreements, as well as all other agreements between designated to be included by the Parties and (ii) FIS shall prepare and deliver to the FNF chief accounting officer (or his/her designee) a Monthly Summary Statement setting forth all expenses, costs and fees incurred during the preceding calendar month, attributable or allocable to FNF and its subsidiaries, or otherwise owing by FNF to FIS, under all Intercompany Agreements, as well as all other agreements between designated to be included by the Parties. The specific form of the Monthly Summary Statement shall be as agreed to between the parties from time to time, acting with commercial reasonableness.
Monthly Summary Statements
Paragraphs (b)
Upon receipt of a Monthly Summary Statement, each of FNF (on behalf of itself and its subsidiaries) and FIS (on behalf of itself and its subsidiaries) will review the applicable Monthly Summary Statements and offset the amounts owing, as shown on their respective Monthly Summary Statements for the same month, so that the net amount owing from the applicable Party can be determined (in any case, the "Monthly Net Amount"). The determination of the Monthly Net Amount owing each month shall be made by FNF within two (2) Business Days of delivery of the Monthly Summary Statements from each of FNF and FIS, and FNF shall provide FIS with a written statement of the Monthly Net Amount (the "Monthly Net Amount Statement").
Within ten (10) Business Days of the determination of the Monthly Net Amount, the chief accounting officers (or their designees) from each of FNF and FIS shall confer together regarding the Monthly Summary Statements and the Monthly Net Amount then owing. If the chief accounting officers (or their designees) agree that the Monthly Net Amount is correct, then within ten (10) Business Days after such conference and agreement, the Party owing the Monthly Net Amount shall cause immediately available funds to be transferred to or to the order of the other Party, in an amount equal to the Monthly Net Amount. If the chief accounting officers (or their designees) do not agree that the Monthly Net Amount is correct, or if either Party shall otherwise dispute any amounts shown on the applicable Monthly Summary Statement, then as soon as reasonably possible after the determination of the Monthly Net Amount but not later than
 
the tenth (10) Business Day thereafter, the disputing Party shall notify the other Party in writing of the nature and basis of the dispute and/or the amount of the adjustment requested.
The Parties shall use their reasonable best efforts to resolve the dispute but if the Parties are unable to resolve the dispute within twenty (20) Business Days after the determination date of the Net Amount, then the dispute resolution procedures set forth in below shall apply, that, in the event of any dispute regarding the amounts owing (and the use of the dispute resolution process with respect thereto), the Party owing the Monthly Net Amount shall nevertheless timely pay that portion of the Monthly Net Amount, as shown on the Monthly Net Amount Statement, that is not in dispute, that if the amount owing is later revised, then the excess amount so paid shall be either (i) promptly returned to the Party making the payment, in immediately available funds or (ii) applied to credit the revised Monthly Net Amount, as appropriate, and , , that to the extent that any amount in dispute is not paid within sixty (60) days after the date on which the non-disputing Party is notified in writing of the dispute, then in addition to its liability for the disputed amounts, the Party that is ultimately determined to have been incorrect as to the amount so in dispute shall be liable to the other Party for interest, calculated on the amount in dispute ultimately determined to be incorrect, at a rate amount equal to one percent (1%) per annum above the "prime rate" as announced in the "Money Rates" section of the most recent edition of The Wall Street Journal, which interest rate shall change as and when the "prime rate" changes.
Paragraph (c)
provided
it being understood
provided
further
(b) . Without limiting the applicability of the foregoing, the Parties agree that effective as of October 23, 2006 until otherwise requested by FIS, the following accounting and billing procedures shall apply, as an alternative to the procedures set forth in above:
Alternative Accounting and Billing Procedure Applicable at Present
Paragraph (a)
Only one Monthly Summary Statement (the "Combined Monthly Summary Statement") will be prepared by FNF with respect to all expenses, costs and fees attributable or allocable to each of FNF (and its subsidiaries) and FIS (and its subsidiaries) under all agreements between FNF (and/or any of its subsidiaries), on the one hand, and FIS (and/or any of its subsidiaries), on the other, incurred during the preceding calendar month. A copy of the Combined Monthly Summary Statement will be provided to FIS within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar month. In addition to setting forth in detail the monthly amounts owing under each such agreement, the Combined Monthly Summary Statement will also set forth the calculation of the offsetting amounts owing, so that the net amount owing from the applicable Party can be determined (the Monthly Net Amount). Within ten (10) Business Days after receiving the Combined Monthly Summary Statement, the FIS chief accounting officer (or his/her designee) shall review the Combined Monthly Summary Statement and the Monthly Net Amount then owing. If the FIS chief accounting officer (or his/her designee) agrees that the Combined Monthly Summary Statement and the resulting Monthly Net Amount is correct, then within ten (10) Business Days after FIS' receipt of the Combined Monthly Summary Statement, FIS shall notify FNF of its agreement to the Monthly Net Amount and the Party owing the Monthly Net Amount shall cause immediately available funds to be transferred to (or to the order of) the other Party, in an amount equal to the Monthly Net Amount. If the FIS chief accounting officers (or his/her designee) does not agree that the Combined Monthly Summary Statement and the
 
resulting Monthly Net Amount is correct, then before the tenth (10) Business Day after receiving the Combined Monthly Summary Statement, he/she shall notify FNF in writing of the nature and basis of his/her objections and, if known at the time, the amount of the adjustment(s) requested.
The Parties shall use their reasonable best efforts to resolve FIS' objections, but if the Parties are unable to resolve their differences within twenty (20) Business Days after FIS's receipt of the Combined Monthly Summary Statement, then the dispute resolution procedures set forth in below shall apply, that, in the event of any dispute regarding the amounts owing (and the use of the dispute resolution process with respect thereto), the Party owing the Monthly Net Amount shall nevertheless timely pay that portion of the Monthly Net Amount, as shown on the Monthly Net Amount Statement, that is not in dispute, that if the amount owing is later revised, then the excess amount so paid shall be either (i) promptly returned to the Party making the payment, in immediately available funds or (ii) applied to credit the revised Monthly Net Amount, as appropriate, and , , that to the extent that any amount in dispute is not paid within sixty (60) days after the date on which the non-disputing Party is notified in writing of the dispute, then in addition to its liability for the disputed amounts, the Party that is ultimately determined to have been incorrect as to the amount so in dispute shall be liable to the other Party for interest, calculated on the amount in dispute ultimately determined to be incorrect, at a rate amount equal to one percent (1%) per annum above the "prime rate" as announced in the "Money Rates" section of the most recent edition of The Wall Street Journal, which interest rate shall change as and when the "prime rate" changes.
Paragraph (c)
provided
it being understood
provided
further
(c) .
Dispute Resolution
     (i) The Parties mutually desire that friendly collaboration will continue between them. Accordingly, they will try to resolve in an amicable manner all disagreements and misunderstandings connected with their respective rights and obligations under this Agreement, including any amendments hereto. In furtherance thereof, in the event of any dispute or disagreement (a "Dispute") between the Parties in connection with this accounting and billing procedure (but not relating to the provisions of, or the substance and content of, any Intercompany Agreement), then the Dispute, upon written request of either Party, will be referred for resolution to the General Counsels of the Parties, which General Counsels will have ten (10) days to resolve such Dispute. Without limiting the foregoing, the Parties acknowledge and agree that the resolution of any dispute relating to the substantive provisions of any particular Intercompany Agreement shall be governed by the dispute resolution provision of the particular Intercompany Agreement in question.
Amicable Resolution.
     (ii) In the event any Dispute cannot be resolved in a friendly manner as set forth in , the Parties intend that such Dispute be resolved by mediation. If the General Counsels of the Parties are unable to resolve the Dispute as contemplated by , either Party may demand mediation of the Dispute by written notice to the other in which case the two Parties will select a single mediator within ten (10) days after the demand. Neither Party may unreasonably withhold consent to the selection of the mediator. Each Party will bear its own costs of mediation but both Parties will share the costs of the mediator equally.
Mediation.
Paragraph (c)(i)
Paragraph (c)(i)
 
     (iii) In the event that the Dispute is not resolved pursuant to or through mediation pursuant to , the latter within thirty (30) days of the submission of the Dispute to mediation, either Party involved in the Dispute may submit the dispute to binding arbitration pursuant to this . All Disputes submitted to arbitration pursuant to this shall be resolved in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association, unless the Parties involved mutually agree to utilize an alternate set of rules, in which event all references herein to the American Arbitration Association shall be deemed modified accordingly. Expedited rules shall apply regardless of the amount at issue. Arbitration proceedings hereunder may be initiated by either Party making a written request to the American Arbitration Association, together with any appropriate filing fee, at the office of the American Arbitration Association in Orlando, Florida. All arbitration proceedings shall be held in the city of Jacksonville, Florida in a location to be specified by the arbitrators (or any place agreed to by the Parties and the Arbitrators). The arbitration shall be by a single qualified arbitrator experienced in the matters at issue, such arbitrator to be mutually agreed upon by the Parties. If the Parties fail to agree on an arbitrator thirty (30) days after notice of commencement of arbitration, the American Arbitration Association shall, upon the request of any Party to the dispute or difference, appoint the arbitrator. Any order or determination of the arbitral tribunal shall be final and binding upon the Parties to the arbitration as to matters submitted and may be enforced by any Party to the Dispute in any court having jurisdiction over the subject matter or over any of the Parties. All costs and expenses incurred in connection with any such arbitration proceeding (including reasonable attorneys' fees) shall be borne by the Party incurring such costs. The use of any alternative dispute resolution procedures hereunder will not be construed under the doctrines of laches, waiver or estoppel to affect adversely the rights of either Party.
Arbitration.
Paragraph (c)(i)
Paragraph (c)(ii)
Paragraph (c)(iii)
Paragraph (c)(iii)
     (iv) Each of the Parties acknowledge and agree that money damages would not be a sufficient remedy for any breach of this Agreement by either Party or misuse of the Confidential Information of FNF or FIS, as the case may be. Accordingly, nothing in this will prevent either Party from immediately seeking injunctive or interim relief in the event of any actual or threatened breach of any confidentiality provisions of this Agreement. All actions for such injunctive or interim relief shall be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction. Such remedy shall not be deemed to be the exclusive remedy for breach of this Agreement.
Non-Exclusive Remedy.
Paragraph (c)
     (v) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the Parties, but none of their respective Subsidiaries, are entitled to commence a dispute resolution procedure under this Agreement, whether pursuant to this or otherwise, and each Party will cause its respective Subsidiaries not to commence any dispute resolution procedure other than through such Party as provided in this .
Commencement of Dispute Resolution Procedure.
Paragraph (c)
Paragraph (c)


