FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20060502155741.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 26, 2006, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the First Quarter of 2006. The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 5.02. Election of Directors
On April 26, 2006, James K. Hunt was elected to the Board of Directors of Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. ("FIS" or the "Company") to fill the vacancy created by the resignation of Terry Christensen. Mr. Hunt is the founding Managing Partner of Bison Capital Asset Management, LLC, which is a multi-fund limited private equity partnership, which makes non-control equity investments in middle market growth companies, and has been for more than five years. Prior to founding Bison Capital, Mr. Hunt was the President of SunAmerica Corporate Finance and Executive Vice President of SunAmerica Investments (subsequently, AIG SunAmerica).
Mr. Hunt has not been appointed to any committees of the Board of FIS at this time.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (NYSE:FIS), today reported its operating results for the first quarter of 2006. The merger between Fidelity National Information Services and Certegy Inc. was completed February 1, 2006. In accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"), Certegy's operating results for January 2006 and the first quarter of 2005 are excluded from FIS' reported GAAP earnings.
Jacksonville, Fla.  April 26, 2006
     FIS' operating results for the first quarter of 2006 and the comparable 2005 period are presented on a GAAP and on a pro forma basis, which management believes provides more meaningful comparisons between the two periods. Reconciliations between the aforementioned GAAP and pro forma results are provided in the attachments to this press release, which is posted on the company's website at http://www.fidelityinfoservices.com.
     FIS' results have been adjusted on a pro forma basis to reflect a January 1, 2005, effective date for the merger and the March 2005 recapitalization and sale of minority interests by FIS. Additionally, the pro forma results exclude merger related costs and the expense associated with the vesting of certain FIS performance based options issued in conjunction with the March 2005 recapitalization.
     "FIS generated excellent results in the first quarter, with revenue growth of 8.7% and EBITDA growth of 14.2%. This strong performance positions us solidly to achieve our full year objectives," stated Chairman William P. Foley, II. "The merger integration effort is well under way, and we are beginning to realize tangible benefits from the combination."
 
FIS presents its financial results in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"). However, in order to provide the investment community with a more thorough means of evaluating the operating performance of its operations, FIS also reports several non-GAAP measures, including earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), net earnings plus depreciation and amortization less capital expenditures ("Free Cash Flow") and net earnings plus other intangible amortization, net of income tax ("Cash Earnings"). Any non-GAAP measures should be considered in context with the GAAP financial presentation and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP net earnings.
Pro Forma Segment Information
     FIS' Transaction Processing Services generated revenue of $592.5 million, or 5.8% over the prior-year period, driven by strong sales generated within the Integrated Financial Solutions product line. EBITDA increased 9.6% to $133.0 million.
     Lender Processing Services revenue increased 12.8% to $400.5 million, driven by market share gains, deeper penetration within its existing customer base and a 5.9% increase in the number of mortgage loans processed. EBITDA increased 9.8% to $134.2 million.
     Corporate expense for the first quarter of 2006 totaled $22.7 million. The $6.8 million, or 23.1%, decline from the prior-year quarter was primarily attributable to the consolidation of duplicate functions during the quarter. Interest expense for the quarter increased $6.6 million to $44.3 million, largely due to higher interest rates.
Outlook
     Management reiterated its pro forma earnings outlook for full year 2006, which excludes pre-tax merger and acquisition costs, pre-tax expense associated with performance based options, and approximately $0.06 per diluted share after-tax expense associated with the establishment of a previously announced joint venture in Brazil. This guidance is consistent with the guidance previously provided by the Company in a February 15, 2006, press release and Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     FIS will host a call with investors and analysts to discuss first quarter results on Thursday, April 27, 2006, beginning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern daylight time. Those wishing to participate via the webcast should access the call through FIS' Investor Relations website at . Those wishing to participate via the telephone may do so by calling 866-233-3843 (USA) or 612-332-0637 (International). The conference call replay will be available via webcast though FIS' Investor Relations website. The telephone replay will be
http://www.fidelityinfoservices.com
 
available through May 4, 2006, by dialing 800-475-6701 (USA) or 320-365-3844 (International). The access code will be 825714.
About Fidelity National Information Services, Inc.
     Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (NYSE:FIS) is a leading provider of core processing for financial institutions; card issuer and transaction processing services; mortgage loan processing and mortgage-related information products; and outsourcing services to financial institutions, retailers, mortgage lenders and real estate professionals. FIS has processing and technology relationships with 35 of the top 50 global banks, including nine of the top ten. Nearly 50 percent of all U.S. residential mortgages are processed using FIS software. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida, FIS maintains a strong global presence, serving over 7,800 financial institutions in more than 60 countries worldwide. For more information on Fidelity National Information Services, please visit www.fidelityinfoservices.com.
     FIS is a majority-owned subsidiary of Fidelity National Financial Inc. (NYSE:FNF), number 248 on the Fortune 500 and a provider of outsourced products and services to a variety of industries. More information about FNF can be found at www.fnf.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
     This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Because such statements are based on expectations as to future economic performance and are not statements of fact, actual results may differ materially from those projected. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The risks and uncertainties which forward-looking statements are subject to include, but are not limited to: changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including changes in the financial markets; the risk that our recent merger with a subsidiary of Fidelity National Financial, Inc. may fail to achieve beneficial synergies or that it may take longer than expected to do so; the effects of our substantial leverage, which may limit the funds available to make acquisitions and invest in our business; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in the banking, retail and financial services industries; failures to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace; adverse changes in the level of real estate activity, which would adversely affect certain of our businesses; our potential inability to find suitable acquisition candidates or difficulties in integrating acquisitions; significant competition that our operating subsidiaries face; and other risks detailed in the "Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information," "Risk Factors" and other sections of the Company's Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SOURCE: Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. CONTACT: Mary Waggoner, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, 904-854-3282, mary.waggoner@fnf.com
 
 
EBITDA Detail
EBITDA Margin
EBIT Detail
EBIT Margin
Adjusted Diluted EPS
Cash Earnings
Free Cash Flow
Continued on the following page
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Statements of Continuing Operations for the four quarters of the year ended December 31, 2005 and the quarter ended March 31, 2006
     These combined statements of continuing operations include the historical statements of continuing operations of Certegy and FIS as though the merger had occurred on January 1, 2005, adjusted for items related to the transaction as described below:
 


