FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20060726082809.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 25, 2006, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the Second Quarter of 2006. The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
      Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (NYSE:FIS), a leading global provider of technology services to financial institutions, today announced financial results for the second quarter of 2006. Consolidated revenue increased to $1.02 billion, Net earnings increased to $66.0 million and Net earnings per diluted share was $0.34. These results reflect the combination between FIS and Certegy Inc. as of February 1, 2006, the effective date of the merger, in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP").
Jacksonville, Fla.  July 25, 2006
     "FIS generated another quarter of solid operating performance. Year-to-date pro forma revenue growth of 6.2% and EBITDA growth of 10.4% are in line with our original full year expectations," stated FIS Chairman William P. Foley, II. "With strong sales growth in the first half of the year and the recent launch of our new item processing and BPO operation in Brazil, we are increasing our full year outlook to reflect pro forma revenue growth of 5% to 7% percent, EBITDA growth of 10% to 12% and cash earnings per diluted share of $2.06 to $2.12."
     FIS' expected cash earnings per diluted share now includes costs associated with the newly established credit card processing joint venture in Brazil, which the company announced in March 2006. These expenses were previously excluded from the Company's guidance.
     FIS' operating results are presented on a GAAP and on an adjusted pro forma basis, which management believes provides more meaningful comparisons between the periods presented. FIS' pro forma results reflect a January 1, 2005, effective date for the merger between FIS and Certegy, the March 2005 recapitalization and the sale of minority interests by FIS. Additionally, the adjusted pro forma results exclude merger and acquisition and integration expenses. Reconciliations between GAAP and pro forma results are provided in the attachments to this press release, which are posted on the company's website at http://www.fidelityinfoservices.com.
 
     The prior year second quarter included contract termination revenue of approximately $22.0 million associated with the acquisition of Riggs Bank by PNC. Excluding this revenue from prior year results, pro forma consolidated revenue in the second quarter of 2006 increased 6.1% and adjusted pro forma EBITDA increased 16.9%.
     FIS presents its financial results in accordance with GAAP. However, in order to provide the investment community with a broader means of evaluating the operating performance of its operations, FIS also reports several non-GAAP measures, including earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), net earnings plus depreciation and amortization less capital expenditures ("Free Cash Flow") and net earnings plus other intangible amortization, net of income tax ("Cash Earnings"). Any non-GAAP measures should be considered in context with the GAAP financial presentation and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP net earnings.
Pro Forma Segment Information
     FIS' Transaction Processing Services generated revenue of $612.1 million, or 2.6% over the prior-year period, driven by 11.2% growth in International and 6.5% growth in Integrated Financial Solutions. EBITDA increased 0.7% to $147.5 million. Excluding the previously mentioned contract termination revenue from the prior year quarter, Transaction Processing Services revenue increased 6.4% and EBITDA increased 17.3%.
     Lender Processing Services revenue increased 5.1% to $408.1 million, driven by a 6.2% increase in the number of mortgage loans processed, strong results within the Default Solutions product line and deeper penetration within the existing customer base. EBITDA increased 1.4% to $141.4 million.
     Additional segment and pro forma information is provided in the following table:
 
     Pro forma corporate expense for the second quarter of 2006 totaled $24.6 million. The $11.5 million, or 31.9%, decline from the prior-year quarter was primarily attributable to the consolidation of duplicate administrative functions. Pro forma interest expense for the quarter increased $9.4 million to $49.0 million, due primarily to higher interest rates.
Outlook
     Management increased its pro forma earnings outlook for full year 2006 as shown below. This guidance excludes pre-tax merger and acquisition and integration costs and pre-tax expense associated with the accelerated vesting of performance based options in the first quarter of 2006. The guidance now includes expenses associated with the newly established credit card processing joint venture in Brazil, which was announced in March 2006. These expenses were previously excluded from the Company's guidance.
 
     FIS will host a call with investors and analysts to discuss first quarter results on Wednesday, July 26, 2006, beginning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern daylight time. Those wishing to participate via the webcast should access the call through FIS' Investor Relations website at . Those wishing to participate via the telephone may do so by calling 800-230-1074 (USA) or 612-288-0318 (International). The webcast replay will be available on FIS' Investor Relations website. The telephone replay will be available through August 2, 2006, by dialing 800-475-6701 (USA) or 320-365-3844 (International). The access code will be 835466.
http://www.fidelityinfoservices.com
About Fidelity National Information Services, Inc.
     Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (NYSE:FIS) is a leading provider of core processing for financial institutions; card issuer and transaction processing services; mortgage loan processing and mortgage-related information products; and outsourcing services to financial institutions, retailers, mortgage lenders and real estate professionals. FIS has processing and technology relationships with 35 of the top 50 global banks, including nine of the top ten. Nearly 50 percent of all U.S. residential mortgages are processed using FIS software. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida, FIS maintains a strong global presence, serving over 7,800 financial institutions in more than 60 countries worldwide. For more information on Fidelity National Information Services, please visit .
www.fidelityinfoservices.com
     FIS is a majority-owned subsidiary of Fidelity National Financial Inc. (NYSE:FNF), number 248 on the Fortune 500 and a provider of outsourced products and services to a variety of industries. More information about FNF can be found at .
www.fnf.com
Forward-Looking Statements
     This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Because such statements are based on expectations as to future economic performance and are not statements of fact, actual results may differ materially from those projected. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The risks and uncertainties which forward-looking statements are subject to include, but are not limited to: changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including changes in the financial markets; the risk that the recent merger between Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. and Certegy Inc. may fail to achieve beneficial synergies or that it may take longer than expected to do so; the effects of our substantial leverage, which may limit the funds available to make acquisitions and invest in our business; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in the banking, retail and financial services industries; failures to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace; adverse changes in the level of real estate activity, which would adversely affect certain of our businesses; our potential inability to find suitable acquisition candidates or difficulties in integrating acquisitions; significant competition that our operating subsidiaries face; and other risks detailed in the "Statement
 
Regarding Forward-Looking Information," "Risk Factors" and other sections of the Company's Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SOURCE: Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. CONTACT: Mary Waggoner, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, 904-854-3282, mary.waggoner@fnf.com
 
 
EBITDA Detail
EBITDA Margin
EBIT Detail
EBIT Margin
Adjusted Diluted EPS
Cash Earnings
Free Cash Flow
Continued on the following page
 
      
 
EBITDA Detail
EBITDA Margin
EBIT Detail
EBIT Margin
Adjusted Diluted EPS
Cash Earnings
Free Cash Flow
Continued on the following page
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 


