FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20060629170726.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Overview of Transaction
     On June 25, 2006, Fidelity National Financial, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "") with its majority-owned subsidiary, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., a Georgia corporation (""), and a Securities Exchange and Distribution Agreement (the "") with its majority-owned subsidiary, Fidelity National Title Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("FNT"). The Merger Agreement provides that at the effective time, FNF will merge with and into FIS (the ""), after which the separate corporate existence of FNF will cease and FIS will continue as the surviving corporation. It is contemplated that the Merger would be completed immediately following the closing of the SEDA. The SEDA provides for the contribution of substantially all of FNF's assets and liabilities (other than its ownership interest in FIS) to FNT in exchange for shares of FNT's Class A common stock (the ""). Immediately following the Asset Contribution, FNF will convert all of its shares of FNT Class B common stock into shares of FNT Class A common stock and then distribute all of the shares of FNT Class A common stock that it owns, including the converted shares and the shares received from FNT pursuant to the SEDA, to the FNF stockholders as a dividend (the ""). After the Asset Contribution and the Spin-off, but immediately prior to the Merger, FNF's only asset will be its approximately 51% ownership interest in FIS.
FNF
Merger Agreement
FIS
SEDA
Merger
Asset Contribution
Spin-off
The Merger Agreement
The Merger Agreement provides for the merger of FNF with and into FIS. Upon the consummation of the Merger, FNF's separate corporate existence will cease and FIS will continue as the surviving corporation. The Merger will be consummated immediately after the Spin-off. At the effective time and as a result of the Merger, each share of FNF common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger will be converted into the right to receive that number of shares of FIS common stock (the "") equal to the 96,214,500 shares of FIS that FNF currently owns, divided by the aggregate number of shares of FNF common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger (the ""). There is no premium or discount associated with the Conversion Number.
Merger Consideration
Conversion Number
FIS has agreed to cause the membership of the board of directors to be as set forth in the disclosure schedules to the Merger Agreement and to cause each individual identified in such disclosure schedules to hold the office set forth opposite their name therein, including William P. Foley, II, who will become Executive Chairman, Lee A. Kennedy, who will remain President and CEO, Brent B. Bickett, who will become Executive Vice President  Strategic Planning, and Alan L. Stinson, who will become Executive Vice President  Finance.
Representations, Warranties and Covenants.
     FNF and FIS have made customary representations and warranties in the Merger Agreement. None of the representations or warranties will survive the consummation of the Merger and there is no indemnity with respect to such representations and warranties.
Representations and Warranties.
     Each of the parties has agreed to certain limitations on its conduct between the execution of the Merger Agreement and the consummation of the Merger.
Interim Operating Limitations.
Table of Contents
For example, FIS has agreed to conduct its business in the ordinary course consistent with past practice and to refrain from taking certain actions without the consent of FNF, and FNF has agreed not to take any action that would cause it to own any assets or have any liabilities at the effective time of the Merger, subject to certain exceptions.
     FNF and FIS have made additional covenants in the Merger Agreement including, among others, covenants (i) to amend or terminate certain related party and/or inter-company agreements; (ii) to enter into the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement with FNT; and (iii) not to take or cause to be taken any action that would be likely to disqualify the Spin-off as a tax-free spin-off under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (the "") or that would be likely to disqualify the Merger as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code. In addition, FIS made certain additional customary covenants, including, among others, covenants (i) not to solicit proposals relating to alternative business combination transactions or subject to certain exceptions, enter into discussions concerning or provide confidential information in connection with any proposals for alternative business combination transactions; (ii) to amend and restate the Certegy Inc. Stock Incentive Plan to increase the total number of shares available for issuance by an additional 4,000,000 shares; and (iii) to use its reasonable best efforts to cause its common stock to continue to be listed on the NYSE through the effective time of the Merger and to cause the shares of FIS common stock to be issued in the Merger to be approved for listing on the NYSE.
Other Covenants.
Code
. The Merger and certain other items related to the transaction will require FNF shareholder approval (the ""), and the issuance of FIS stock in connection with the Merger and certain other items related to the transaction will require FIS shareholder approval (the ""). Accordingly, the Merger Agreement requires FNF and FIS, as soon as practicable, to prepare and file with the SEC a Proxy Statement relating to required shareholder approvals, and FIS to prepare and file a Registration Statement on Form S-4 relating to the issuance of FIS stock in the Merger, in which the Proxy Statement will be included as a prospectus. Once the Proxy Statement is cleared, and the Form S-4 declared effective, by the SEC, FNF and FIS will schedule shareholder votes and mail the Proxy Statement to their shareholders. Under the Merger Agreement, FNF and FIS each agree, through their respective Boards, to recommend to their respective stockholders approval or adoption of each of the matters requiring shareholder approval or adoption.
Shareholder Approval and SEC Filings
FNF Shareholder Approval
FIS Shareholder Approval
. If, after giving effect to actual or anticipated or projected exercises of outstanding options to purchase shares of FIS common stock prior to the Merger, the Merger Consideration would not constitute more than 50% of the shares of FIS common stock outstanding immediately after the Merger, the Merger Agreement requires that FIS will, if and to the extent directed by FNF, repurchase enough shares of its common stock to cause the Merger Consideration to constitute more than 50% of the shares of FIS common stock outstanding immediately after the Merger, to the extent permitted by applicable law.
FIS Stock Buy-Backs
. In connection with the Merger, outstanding FNF stock options and restricted stock will be treated in the following manner:
Treatment of FNF Equity Awards
     . In connection with the SEDA and the Merger Agreement, William P. Foley, II, Alan L. Stinson and Brent B. Bickett (the "") have entered into the Option Letter Agreement pursuant to which FNF has the right to cash out a certain number of the Executives' FNF stock options for their fair market value as of the date FNF elects to exercise
Option Letter Agreement
Executives
Table of Contents
such right or cause the Executives to exercise such options. To the extent FNF exercises its right under the Option Letter Agreement, it will do so immediately prior to the effective time of the Spin-off or as near thereto as practicable. FNF's right to cash out these FNF stock options or cause such options to be exercised is subject to the right of the Executives to exercise such stock options if doing so would not adversely affect the tax treatment of the transactions contemplated by the SEDA.
     . FNF stock options held by persons who, after the Merger, will be employed by or provide services to FIS (an ""), and the plans under which such options were granted, will be assumed by FIS, with the same terms and conditions as the FNF options, but with equitable adjustments made to the exercise prices and the number of shares underlying the options to reflect the difference in value of FNF and FIS common stock. With respect to the FNF stock options held by the Executives that are not subject to the Option Letter Agreement, 50% of such options will be assumed by FIS as explained above, and the remaining 50% of such options will be replaced with FNT stock options pursuant to the terms of the SEDA.
Stock Options
FIS Service Provider
     . Each share of FNF restricted stock held by an FIS service provider will be converted into shares of FIS restricted stock. This FIS restricted stock will be subject to the same transfer restrictions and forfeiture conditions as the corresponding FNF restricted stock based upon continued service with FIS and its affiliates. With respect to FNF restricted stock held by the Executives, 50% of the FNF restricted stock held by such Executives will be converted into FIS restricted stock, and the remaining 50% will be replaced with shares of FNT restricted stock pursuant to the terms of the SEDA.
Restricted Stock
     . FIS will amend and restate its stock incentive plan to increase the number of shares available for issuance under the plan by 4,000,000 shares and FIS will file a Registration Statement on Form S-8 to register such shares.
Amendment of FIS Stock Plan and S-8 Registration Statement
.
Employment/Compensation Matters
     . Following the Spin-off and the Merger, William P. Foley, II, Alan L. Stinson, and Brent B. Bickett (the "") will serve as executive officers of both FNT and FIS. Each Dual Executive will enter into an employment agreement with FNT, effective as of the Spin-off, and an employment agreement with FIS, effective as of the Merger, setting forth such executive's duties, responsibilities and authorities with respect to FNT and FIS, respectively. Under the employment agreements with FIS, the Dual Executives will receive the following compensation:
Dual Executives
Dual Executives
Table of Contents
In addition to the Dual Executives, a list of individuals who are expected to serve as officers of FIS is set forth in the disclosure schedules to the Merger Agreement.
     . In connection with the Merger, the employment agreements between FIS and Lee A. Kennedy and FIS and Jeffery S. Carbiener, both dated as of September 14, 2005, will be amended to provide that the consummation of the Merger and the transactions contemplated by the Merger do not constitute a change of control under such agreements.
Amendments to Employment Agreements
     . In contemplation of the Merger, holders of certain unvested FIS stock options, granted February 1, 2006 under the Certegy Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, entered into an agreement with FIS pursuant to which the option holders waived any right to have vesting of the shares underlying such unvested options accelerate upon consummation of the Merger.
Waiver of Accelerated Vesting of FIS Options
Consummation of the Merger is subject to customary conditions, including (i) the absence of any inaccuracy in either party's representations and warranties that would be reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect; (ii) the receipt of governmental and regulatory consents and approvals; (iii) the receipt of required shareholder approvals; (iv) the receipt of a private letter ruling from the IRS and an opinion of FNF's and FIS's tax advisors that the Merger will qualify as a tax free "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code and the Spin-off will qualify as a tax-free spin-off under Section 355 of the Code; (v) the receipt of consents required from third parties, including under credit agreements of FNF, FNT and FIS and any other material agreements; (vi) the clearance of proxy statements by the SEC and effectiveness of registration statements; (vii) the amendment or termination of specified related party and inter-company agreements; and (viii) the occurrence of the Spin-off in accordance with the SEDA.
Closing Conditions.
The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for both FNF and FIS, including the right of either party to terminate the Merger Agreement prior to the consummation of the Merger if (i) the other party's special committee of independent directors withdraws or materially modifies its approval of the Merger Agreement or its recommendation to its shareholders in a manner adverse to the terminating party, (ii) the SEDA has been terminated, (iii) the Merger has not been consummated on or before December 31, 2006, (iv) a governmental entity prohibits the Merger, or (iv) the other party breaches a representation or warranty in a manner that would have a material adverse effect, and the breach cannot be cured prior to December 31, 2006.
Termination.
Table of Contents
Tax Disaffiliation Agreement.
FNT and its subsidiaries currently are members of the FNF consolidated federal income tax return. In addition, certain FNT group companies are included with certain FIS group companies in state combined returns. From and after the time of FNF's spin-off of FNT, the FNT group companies no longer will be included in the FNF consolidated federal income tax return or in any combined return with any FIS company. Accordingly, in connection with the SEDA and the Merger Agreement, FNF, FNT and FIS will enter into a Tax Disaffiliation Agreement (the ""). A key purpose of the TDA is to allocate responsibility among the parties for filing returns and paying taxes for periods prior to the Spin-off. The TDA also includes indemnifications for any adjustments to taxes for periods prior to the Spin-off and for any taxes and for any associated adverse consequences that may be imposed on the parties as a result of the Spin-off, as a result of actions taken by the parties or otherwise. It is a condition to closing under both the SEDA and the Merger Agreement that FNF, FNT and FIS enter into the TDA.
TDA
. FNF, prior to the Merger, will, to the extent permissible, designate FNT or an affiliate of FNT as the agent of the FNF federal consolidated group, such that FNT (or such FNT affiliate) will represent that group before the IRS for all federal income tax matters related to periods prior to the Spin-off. There will be conforming agency designations at the state level to the extent permitted by law.
Designation of Agent
. To the extent permissible, FNT will file and pay the tax due on all FNF federal consolidated returns. FNT and FIS will share the responsibility for filing and paying tax on combined state returns that contain FNT group companies and FIS group companies; determination of which group will file the return and pay the tax will depend upon whether the common parent of the combined group is an FNT company or an FIS company. There are limitations on each group's ability to amend returns if amendment would increase the tax liability of the other group.
Filing of Returns and Payment of Taxes
FNT will indemnify FNF (and its successor, FIS) with respect to the FNF federal consolidated income taxes for periods prior to the Spin-off (other than taxes attributable to income of FIS or FIS subsidiaries), and with respect to any state income taxes payable by FIS but attributable to a subsidiary of FNF, FNT or to one of the former direct FNF subsidiaries that are being contributed to FNT pursuant to the SEDA. FIS will indemnify FNT with respect to any state income taxes payable by FNT but attributable to a subsidiary of FIS. FNT will indemnify FIS for all taxes and any associated adverse consequences (including shareholder suits) if the merger of FNF into FIS is determined to be a taxable transaction. FNT will indemnify FIS for all taxes and any associated adverse consequences (including shareholder suits) if the Spin-off is determined to be a taxable transaction, unless such adverse determination is the result of a breach by FIS of its representation not to take any action within its control that would cause the Spin-off to be taxable or the result of an acquisition of FIS stock within the control of FIS or an FIS affiliate.
Indemnification.
Subject to some limitations and exceptions, the indemnifying party controls any contest or audit related to any indemnified tax.
Through the period ending 2 years after the Spin-off, any direct or indirect acquisition, issuance, or other transaction, subject to certain exceptions, involving FIS or FNT stock will be restricted in the absence of an opinion from a nationally recognized law firm or accounting firm that the transaction will not cause the Spin-off to be taxable or consent from certain officers of the other party.
Restrictions on Stock Acquisitions.
Table of Contents
Prior tax sharing agreements are terminated, except for tax sharing agreements relating to insurance companies. Such agreements will be amended to substitute FNT for FNF, except in the case of National Title Insurance of New York, Inc., which will be amended to substitute FIS for FNF.
Other Operational Provisions.
.
Cross-Indemnity Agreement
As a condition to the SEDA Closing, FNT and FIS have agreed to enter into the Cross-Indemnity Agreement. Under the Cross-Indemnity Agreement, each party (together with certain of its affiliates and representatives, the "") will indemnify the other party and certain of the other party's affiliates and representatives (the "") from and against any losses incurred (whether before, at or after the SEDA Closing) by the Indemnified Parties arising out of: (i) the ownership or operation of the assets or properties, the operations or conduct of the business, and the employee retirement and benefit plans and financial statements of the Indemnifying Party; (ii) any breach by the Indemnifying Party of the Cross-Indemnity Agreement, of its organizational documents, or of any law or contract to which it is a party; (iii) any untrue statement of, or omission to state, a material fact in any governmental filing of the Indemnified Party to the extent it was as a result of information about the Indemnifying Party; (iv) any untrue statement of, or omission to state, a material fact in any governmental filing of the Indemnifying Party, except to the extent it was as a result of information about the Indemnified Party; (v) claims brought by third parties to the extent related to the transactions contemplated by the SEDA (to the extent FNT is the Indemnifying Party) or, among other things, the FIS Merger Agreement (to the extent FIS is the Indemnifying Party), subject to certain exceptions; and (vi) the provision of services by or employment of representatives of the Indemnifying Party, and the termination of such services or employment.
Indemnifying Party
Indemnified Parties
The Cross-Indemnity Agreement expressly provides that it is not intended to change the allocation of liability for any matter in any other existing or future agreement between FNT and its affiliates and FIS and its affiliates, to all of which agreements the Cross-Indemnity Agreement is made subject.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 10.1 ================================================================================ AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER DATED AS OF JUNE 25, 2006 BY AND BETWEEN FIDELITY NATIONAL INFORMATION SERVICES, INC. AND FIDELITY NATIONAL FINANCIAL, INC. ================================================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION 5.17. Company Common Stock Buy-Backs.......................... 34 SECTION 5.18. Taxation................................................ 34 SECTION 5.19. Takeover Statutes....................................... 34 SECTION 5.20. Employee Benefits....................................... 34 SECTION 5.21. Certegy Stock Incentive Plan Amendment.................. 35 ARTICLE VI CONDITIONS PRECEDENT.......................................... 35 SECTION 6.1. Conditions to Each Party's Obligation to Effect the Merger.................................................. 35 SECTION 6.2. Conditions to Obligations of Company.................... 36 SECTION 6.3. Conditions to Obligation of FNF......................... 37 ARTICLE VII TERMINATION, AMENDMENT AND WAIVER............................ 38 SECTION 7.1. Termination............................................. 38 SECTION 7.2. Effect of Termination................................... 39 SECTION 7.3. Amendment............................................... 39 SECTION 7.4. Consent; Extension; Waiver.............................. 40 ARTICLE VIII GENERAL PROVISIONS.......................................... 40 SECTION 8.1. Nonsurvival of Representations and Warranties........... 40 SECTION 8.2. Fees, Expenses and Transfer Taxes....................... 40 SECTION 8.3. Definitions............................................. 40 SECTION 8.4. Notices................................................. 44 SECTION 8.5. Interpretation.......................................... 45 SECTION 8.6. Counterparts............................................ 45 SECTION 8.7. Entire Agreement; Third-Party Beneficiaries............. 45 SECTION 8.8. Assignment.............................................. 45 SECTION 8.9. Governing Law........................................... 46 SECTION 8.10. Enforcement; Venue; Waiver of Jury Trial................ 46 SECTION 8.11. Severability............................................ 46
EXHIBITS Exhibit A Securities Exchange and Distribution Agreement Exhibit B Form of Assumption Agreement Exhibit C Form of Affiliate Letter Exhibit D Form of Cross-Indemnity Agreement Exhibit E Form of Tax Disaffiliation Agreement Exhibit F Form of FNF Officer's Certificate Exhibit G Form of Company Officer's Certificate -ii-
AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER, dated as of June 25, 2006 (this "Agreement") between Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., a Georgia corporation (the "Company"), and Fidelity National Financial, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("FNF"). WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of each of the Company and FNF has adopted resolutions approving this Agreement and the merger of FNF with and into the Company (the "Merger") on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement and in accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "DGCL") and the Georgia Business Corporation Code (the "GBCC"); WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of FNF, pursuant to the recommendation of a special committee of independent members of the Board of Directors of FNF (the "FNF Special Committee"), deems it advisable and in the best interests of FNF and its stockholders, in order to advance the long-term business interest of FNF, that it be merged with and into the Company, all upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement; WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company, pursuant to the recommendation of a special committee of independent members of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Company Special Committee"), deems it advisable and in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, in order to advance the long-term business interest of the Company, that FNF be merged with and into the Company, all upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement; WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of FNF has approved pursuing a plan for the transfer, prior to the proposed Spin-off (as defined herein), to one of its subsidiaries, Fidelity National Title Group, Inc. ("FNT"), of all of the shares of capital stock of certain of its subsidiaries and other assets and Liabilities (as defined herein), certain related reorganization transactions, and the distribution immediately prior to the Effective Time (as defined herein) of all the shares of capital stock of FNT held by FNF on a pro rata basis to the holders of the common stock, par value $.0001 per share, of FNF ("FNF Common Stock") as of the record date for such distribution (such distribution, the "Spin-off"), all of the foregoing to be effected pursuant to the Securities Exchange and Distribution Agreement, dated as of the date hereof and attached hereto as Exhibit A between FNF and FNT (the "Securities Exchange Agreement"), and the other agreements attached as annexes to or referred to in the Securities Exchange Agreement (such agreements, together with the Securities Exchange Agreement, the "Spin-Off Agreements"), all of which have been or will be executed and delivered by FNF and the other parties thereto prior to the Effective Time; WHEREAS, it is intended that for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Merger shall qualify as a reorganization under the provisions of Section 368(a)(1)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the "Code"), and this Agreement shall constitute a plan of reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Code and the parties hereto shall each be a party to such reorganization within the meaning of the Code; and
WHEREAS, the Company and FNF desire to make certain representations, warranties, covenants and agreements in connection with the Merger and also to prescribe various conditions to the Merger. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements contained in this Agreement, the adequacy of which is hereby acknowledged by each party, the parties agree as follows: ARTICLE I THE MERGER SECTION 1.1. The Merger. Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, and in accordance with the DGCL and the GBCC, FNF shall be merged with and into the Company at the Effective Time. At the Effective Time, the separate corporate existence of FNF shall cease, and the Company shall continue as the surviving corporation in the Merger (the "Surviving Company"). SECTION 1.2. Closing. Unless this Agreement shall have been terminated and the transactions herein contemplated shall have been abandoned pursuant to Section 7.1 or unless otherwise mutually agreed in writing between the Company and FNF, the closing of the Merger (the "Closing") will take place on the same business day as, and immediately after, the completion of the Spin-off pursuant to the Securities Exchange Agreement, subject to the fulfillment or waiver of the conditions set forth in Article VI of this Agreement (other than those to be fulfilled or waived as of the Closing, but subject to the fulfillment or waiver of those conditions) in accordance with this Agreement, at the offices of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae LLP, 125 West 55th Street, New York, New York, unless another date, time or place is agreed to in writing by the parties hereto. The actual date and time of the Closing are herein referred to as the "Closing Date". For purposes of this Agreement, the term "business day" shall mean any day ending at 11:59 p.m. (Eastern Time) other than a Saturday or Sunday or a day on which banks are required or authorized to close in The City of New York. SECTION 1.3. Effective Time. The parties hereto will (i) file with the Secretary of State of the State of Georgia (the "Georgia Secretary of State") on the date of the Closing (or on such other date as the Company and FNF may agree) a certificate of merger (the "Georgia Certificate of Merger") relating to the Merger and any other appropriate documents, executed in accordance with the relevant provisions of the GBCC, (ii) file with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware (the "Delaware Secretary of State"), a certificate of merger (the "Delaware Certificate of Merger") relating to the Merger, executed and acknowledged in accordance with the relevant provisions of the DGCL and (iii) make all other filings or recordings required under the GBCC and the DGCL in connection with the Merger. The Merger shall become effective (the "Effective Time") when the Georgia Certificate of Merger and the Delaware Certificate of Merger have been duly filed with the Georgia Secretary of State and the Delaware Secretary of State, respectively, or at such later time as may be agreed by the parties and specified in the Georgia Certificate of Merger and the Delaware Certificate of Merger. -2-
SECTION 1.4. Effects of the Merger. The Merger shall have the effects set forth in the GBCC and the DGCL. SECTION 1.5. Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws. (i) The certificate of incorporation of the Company (the "Company Charter"), as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time, shall be the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Company until thereafter changed or amended as provided therein or under applicable law. (ii) The by-laws of the Company (the "Company By-laws") as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time shall, from and after the Effective Time, be the by-laws of the Surviving Company until thereafter changed or amended as provided therein or under applicable law. SECTION 1.6. Directors and Officers. (a) Directors. The parties hereto shall take all actions necessary so that the board of directors of the Company at the Effective Time shall, from and after the Effective Time, be comprised of the individuals set forth in Section 1.6(a) of the Company Disclosure Schedule in the classes set forth therein until their successors have been duly elected or appointed and qualified or until their earlier death, resignation or removal in accordance with the Company Charter and the Company By-Laws. (b) Officers. The parties hereto shall take all actions necessary so that the officers of the Company at the Effective Time and the individuals specified in Section 1.6(b) of the Company Disclosure Schedule shall, from and after the Effective Time, be the officers of the Surviving Corporation until their successors have been duly elected or appointed and qualified or until their earlier death, resignation or removal in accordance with the Company Charter and the Company By-Laws. (c) In the event that any person listed on Section 1.6(a) or 1.6(b) of the Disclosure Schedule is unwilling or unable to serve in the capacity indicated, FNF and the Company shall agree upon a substitute for such person. ARTICLE II EFFECT OF THE MERGER ON THE SECURITIES OF THE CONSTITUENT CORPORATIONS SECTION 2.1. Effect on Capital Stock. As of the Effective Time, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of the holder of any shares of FNF Common Stock, or any other shares of capital stock of FNF: (a) Cancellation of Treasury Stock and Company-Owned Common Stock. Each share of FNF Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time that is owned by FNF or by the Company or any Company Subsidiary (as hereinafter defined) shall automatically cease to be outstanding, be cancelled and retired -3-
and shall cease to exist, and no cash or other consideration shall be delivered or deliverable in exchange therefor. (b) Conversion of FNF Common Stock. Each share of FNF Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time, other than shares to be cancelled in accordance with Section 2.1(a) (such shares, the "Eligible Shares"), shall be converted into the right to receive the number of validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable shares of the common stock (the "Company Common Stock"), par value $.01 per share, of the Company (the "Stock Consideration") equal to the Conversion Number. The "Conversion Number" shall equal 96,214,500 divided by the number of Eligible Shares, rounded to the nearest ten thousandth. The Stock Consideration and any cash to be paid in accordance with Section 2.3 in lieu of fractional shares of the Company Common Stock are referred to collectively as the "Merger Consideration". (c) Cancellation and Retirement of FNF Common Stock. As of the Effective Time, all certificates representing Eligible Shares issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall no longer be outstanding and shall automatically be cancelled and retired and shall cease to exist, and each holder of a certificate representing any such shares of FNF Common Stock shall cease to have any rights with respect thereto, except the right to receive the Merger Consideration upon surrender of such certificate in accordance with Section 2.3, without interest, and any dividend or other distribution pursuant to Section 2.3(d). (d) FNF Restricted Stock. As of immediately prior to the Effective Time, certain shares of FNF Common Stock which when issued were subject to forfeiture under an FNF Stock Option Plan and which remain subject to forfeiture immediately prior to the Effective Time (each, an "FNF Restricted Share"), shall be replaced with restricted shares of FNT common stock pursuant to the Securities Exchange Agreement. As of the Effective Time, each FNF Restricted Share remaining outstanding (an "Assumed Restricted Share") shall be included in the conversion and cancellation of FNF Common Stock pursuant to Sections 2.1(b) and (c); provided, however, that upon conversion, such shares shall continue to be subject to the same terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to the corresponding FNF Restricted Shares based upon continued service with Surviving Company and its affiliates. All FNF Restricted Shares outstanding as of May 31, 2006 are disclosed in Section 2.1(d) of the FNF Disclosure Schedule. Section 2.1(d) of the FNF Disclosure Schedule also designates all FNF Restricted Shares that, if outstanding at the Effective Time, will be Assumed Restricted Shares. SECTION 2.2. FNF Stock Option Plans. (a) Prior to the Effective Time, certain outstanding options to purchase shares of FNF Common Stock (an "FNF Stock Option") issued under FNF's stock option plans and award agreements (collectively, the "FNF Stock Option Plans") shall be replaced with options issued by FNT pursuant to the Securities Exchange Agreement. As of the Effective Time, each FNF Stock Option remaining outstanding designated as described below (an "Assumed Option"), and each FNF Stock Option Plan under which any of the foregoing were issued shall be assumed by the Company. All FNF Stock Options -4-
outstanding as of May 31, 2006 are disclosed in Section 2.2 of the Disclosure Schedule delivered by FNF to the Company at or prior to the execution of this Agreement (the "FNF Disclosure Schedule") and are designated as vested or unvested. Section 2.2 of the FNF Disclosure Schedule also designates all FNF Stock Options that, if outstanding at the Effective Time, will be Assumed Options. Each Assumed Option shall be exercisable for a number of shares of Company Common Stock calculated by multiplying the number of shares of FNF Common Stock subject to such FNF Stock Option as of the Effective Time by the Option Exchange Number, rounding down to the nearest whole number. The "Option Exchange Number" shall equal the closing price of a share of FNF Common Stock on the business day immediately preceding the Closing Date divided by the closing price of a share of Company Common Stock on the Closing Date (or, if the Closing is consummated after the close of trading on the NYSE on such date, on the next business day following the Closing Date), rounded to the nearest ten thousandth. The exercise price for each share of Company Common Stock under an Assumed Option shall be calculated by dividing the exercise price for one share of FNF Common Stock under the related FNF Stock Option as of the Effective Time by the Option Exchange Number, rounding up to the nearest whole cent. No vesting schedule for any Assumed Option shall be modified as a result of the transactions contemplated hereby. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the assumption of FNF Stock Options pursuant to this Section 2.2(a) shall in all circumstances satisfy Section 1.409A-1(b)(5)(v)(D) of the Proposed Regulations under Section 409A of the Code or any future guidance issued thereunder. (b) As soon as practicable after the Effective Time, the Company shall deliver to each person who, immediately prior to the Effective Time, is the holder of an Assumed Option an appropriate notice setting forth such holder's rights pursuant thereto and that the agreements evidencing the grants of such options shall continue in effect on the same terms and conditions (subject to the adjustments required by this Section 2.2 after giving effect to the Merger). At or before the Effective Time, the Company shall take all corporate action necessary to reserve for issuance a sufficient number of shares of Company Common Stock for delivery upon exercise of Assumed Options. As soon as practicable after the Effective Time (but in any event no later than 15 days following the Effective Time), the Company shall file a registration statement on Form S-8 (or any successor form) that will register the shares of Company Common Stock subject to Assumed Options to the extent permitted by federal securities laws and shall use its reasonable best efforts to maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement or registration statements for so long as such options remain outstanding. In addition, the Company shall use all reasonable best efforts to cause the shares of Company Common Stock subject to Assumed Options to be listed on the NYSE. (c) Prior to the Effective Time, FNF shall take all corporate action necessary such that the FNF Employee Stock Purchase Plan shall no longer be sponsored or maintained by FNF and shall not become an obligation of the Company as a result of the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Any shares of FNF Common Stock held in, or distributed from, the FNF Employee Stock Purchase Plan shall be included in the conversion and cancellation of FNF Common Stock pursuant to Sections 2.1(b) and (c). -5-
SECTION 2.3. Exchange of Certificates. (a) Exchange Agent. As of the Effective Time, the Company shall deposit with a bank or trust company designated by the Company with the prior approval (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) of FNF (the "Exchange Agent"), for the benefit of the holders of Eligible Shares (whether in certificated or book entry form), certificates or, at the Company's option, shares in book entry form (collectively "certificates") representing the aggregate Stock Consideration issuable pursuant to Section 2.1 in exchange for such shares of FNF Common Stock. Such certificates and all cash from sales of the aggregated fractional shares pursuant to Section 2.3(f), together with any dividends or distributions with respect to the Stock Consideration, are hereinafter referred to as the "Exchange Fund". (b) Exchange Procedures. As soon as practicable after the Effective Time, each holder of an outstanding certificate or certificates which prior thereto represented Eligible Shares shall, upon surrender to the Exchange Agent of such certificate or certificates in accordance with the terms of the transmittal materials described in Section 2.3(c) of this Agreement and acceptance thereof by the Exchange Agent, be entitled to a certificate representing that number of whole shares of Company Common Stock (and/or cash in lieu of fractional shares of Company Common Stock as contemplated by Section 2.3(f)) which the aggregate number of shares of FNF Common Stock previously represented by such certificate or certificates surrendered shall have been converted into the right to receive pursuant to Section 2.1(b) of this Agreement. The Exchange Agent shall accept such certificates upon compliance with such reasonable terms and conditions as the Exchange Agent may impose to effect an orderly exchange thereof in accordance with normal exchange practices. If the consideration to be paid in the Merger (or any portion thereof) is to be delivered to any person other than the person in whose name the certificate representing shares of FNF Common Stock surrendered in exchange therefor is registered, it shall be a condition to such exchange that the certificate so surrendered shall be properly endorsed or otherwise be in proper form for transfer and that the person requesting such exchange shall pay to the Exchange Agent any transfer or other taxes required by reason of the payment of such consideration to a person other than the registered holder of the certificate surrendered, or shall establish to the satisfaction of the Exchange Agent that such tax has been paid or is not applicable. After the Effective Time, there shall be no further transfer on the records of FNF or its transfer agent of shares of FNF Common Stock and if such certificates for Eligible Shares are presented to FNF for transfer, they shall be cancelled against delivery of the Merger Consideration as hereinabove provided. Until surrendered as contemplated by this Section 2.3(b), each certificate representing Eligible Shares shall be deemed at any time after the Effective Time to represent only the right to receive upon such surrender the Merger Consideration, without any interest thereon, as contemplated by Section 2.1. No interest will be paid or will accrue on any cash payable as Merger Consideration. (c) Letter of Transmittal. Promptly after the Effective Time (but in no event more than five business days thereafter), the Company shall require the Exchange Agent to mail to each record holder of certificates that immediately prior to the Effective Time represented shares of FNF Common Stock which have been converted pursuant to -6-
Section 2.1, a letter of transmittal and instructions for use in surrendering such certificates and receiving the consideration to which such holder shall be entitled pursuant to Section 2.1, each in a form reasonably satisfactory to FNF and the Company. (d) Distributions with Respect to Unexchanged Shares; Voting. No dividends or other distributions with respect to Company Common Stock with a record date after the Effective Time shall be paid to the holder of any certificate that immediately prior to the Effective Time represented shares of FNF Common Stock which have been converted pursuant to Section 2.1, until the surrender for exchange of such certificate in accordance with this Article II. Following surrender for exchange of any such certificate, there shall be paid to the holder of such certificate, without interest, (i) at the time of such surrender, the amount of dividends or other distributions with a record date after the Effective Time theretofore paid with respect to the number of whole shares of Company Common Stock into which the shares of FNF Common Stock represented by such certificate immediately prior to the Effective Time were converted pursuant to Section 2.1, and (ii) at the appropriate payment date, the amount of dividends or other distributions with a record date after the Effective Time, but prior to such surrender, and with a payment date subsequent to such surrender, payable with respect to such whole shares of Company Common Stock. Holders of unsurrendered certificates shall be entitled to vote after the Effective Time at any meeting of Company shareholders the number of whole shares of Company Common Stock represented by such certificates, regardless of whether such holders have exchanged their certificates. (e) No Further Ownership Rights in Common Stock. The Merger Consideration paid upon the surrender for exchange of certificates representing shares of FNF Common Stock in accordance with the terms of this Article II shall be deemed to have been issued and paid in full satisfaction of all rights pertaining to the shares of FNF Common Stock theretofore represented by such certificates, subject, however, to the Company's obligation (if any) to pay any dividends or make any other distributions with a record date prior to the Effective Time which may have been declared by FNF on such shares of FNF Common Stock in accordance with the terms of or contemplated by this Agreement which remain unpaid at the Effective Time. (f) No Fractional Shares. (i) No certificates or scrip representing fractional shares of Company Common Stock shall be issued upon the surrender for exchange of certificates that immediately prior to the Effective Time represented shares of FNF Common Stock which have been converted pursuant to Section 2.1, and such fractional share interests will not entitle the owner thereof to vote or to any rights of a shareholder of the Company. (ii) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement to the contrary, any holder of shares of FNF Common Stock entitled to receive a fractional share of Company Common Stock but for this Section shall be entitled to receive a cash payment in lieu thereof, in an amount equal to such holder's proportionate interest in the net proceeds from the sale or sales in the open market -7-
by the Exchange Agent, on behalf of all such holders, of the shares of Company Common Stock constituting the excess of (i) the number of whole shares of Company Common Stock delivered to the Exchange Agent by the Company over (ii) the aggregate number of whole shares of Company Common Stock to be distributed to holders of FNF Common Stock (such excess, the "Excess Shares"). As soon as practicable following the Effective Time, the Exchange Agent shall determine the number of Excess Shares and, as agent for the former holders of FNF Common Stock, shall sell the Excess Shares at the prevailing prices on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the "NYSE"). The Exchange Agent shall deduct from the proceeds of the sale of the Excess Shares all commissions, withholding taxes, transfer taxes and other out-of-pocket transaction costs, including the expenses and compensation of the Exchange Agent, incurred in connection with such sale of Excess Shares. Until the net proceeds of such sale have been distributed to the former holders of FNF Common Stock, the Exchange Agent will hold such proceeds in trust for such former holders. As soon as practicable after the determination of the amount of cash to be paid to such former holders in lieu of any fractional interests, the Exchange Agent shall make available in accordance with this Agreement such amounts to such holders. (g) Termination of Exchange Fund. Any portion of the Exchange Fund (including the proceeds of any investments thereof) which remains undistributed to the holders of the certificates representing shares of FNF Common Stock for 120 days after the Effective Time shall be delivered to the Company, and any holders of shares of FNF Common Stock who have not theretofore complied with this Article II shall thereafter look only to the Company for payment of their claim for any Merger Consideration and any dividends or distributions with respect to Company Common Stock. (h) No Liability. None of the Company, the Surviving Company or the Exchange Agent shall be liable to any person in respect of any shares, cash, dividends or distributions payable from the Exchange Fund delivered to a public official pursuant to any applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar law. If any certificates representing shares of FNF Common Stock shall not have been surrendered prior to five years after the Effective Time (or immediately prior to such earlier date on which any Merger Consideration in respect of such certificate would otherwise escheat to or become the property of any Governmental Entity), any such shares, cash, dividends or distributions payable in respect of such certificate shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, become the property of the Surviving Company, free and clear of all claims or interest of any person previously entitled thereto. (i) Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates. In the event that any certificate representing shares of FNF Common Stock shall have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming such certificate to be lost, stolen or destroyed and, if required by Company, the posting by such person of a bond in customary amount and upon such terms as may be required by the Company as indemnity against any claim that may be made against it with respect to such certificate, the Exchange Agent will issue in exchange for such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate the shares of Company Common Stock and any cash, unpaid dividends or other -8-
distributions that would be payable or deliverable in respect thereof pursuant to this Agreement had such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate been surrendered. (j) Withholding Rights. The Company and the Exchange Agent shall be entitled to deduct and withhold from the consideration otherwise payable pursuant to this Agreement to any holder of Shares such amounts as it is required to deduct and withhold with respect to the making of such payment under the Code or any other applicable state, local or foreign tax law. To the extent that amounts are so withheld, such withheld amounts (i) shall be remitted by the Company to the applicable Governmental Entity, and (ii) shall be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having been paid to the holder of shares of FNF Common Stock in respect of which such deduction and withholding was made by the Company or the Exchange Agent. (k) Adjustments. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if, between the date of this Agreement and the Effective Time, the issued and outstanding shares of Company Common Stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into or exercisable for shares of Company Common Stock or the issued and outstanding shares of FNF Common Stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into or exercisable for shares of FNF Common Stock, shall have been changed into a different number of shares or a different class by reason of any reclassification, stock split (including a reverse stock split), stock dividend or distribution, recapitalization, redenomination, merger (but only a merger involving the Company and not FNF), issuer tender or exchange offer, or other similar transaction, then the Merger Consideration and any other dependent items shall be equitably adjusted and as so adjusted shall, from and after the date of such event, be the Merger Consideration or other dependent item. ARTICLE III REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES SECTION 3.1. Representations and Warranties of FNF. FNF represents and warrants to the Company as follows: (a) Organization, Standing and Corporate Power. FNF is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of Delaware and has the requisite corporate power and authority to carry on its business as now being conducted. FNF is duly qualified to do business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the nature of its business or the ownership or leasing of its properties makes such qualification necessary, other than in such jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified (individually or in the aggregate) would not have an FNF Material Adverse Effect. The term "FNF Material Adverse Effect" means any material adverse effect on the ability of FNF to perform its obligations hereunder, or to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby, on a timely basis. FNF has delivered or made available to the Company complete and correct copies of its Certificate of Incorporation (the "FNF Charter") and By-laws (the "FNF By-laws"), in each case as amended to the date of this Agreement. -9-
(b) Capital Structure. The authorized capital stock of FNF consists of (i) 250,000,000 shares of FNF Common Stock and (ii) 3,000,000 shares of preferred stock. At the close of business on May 31, 2006, 175,790,428 shares of FNF Common Stock were issued and outstanding, 13,608,696 shares of FNF Common Stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding options under FNF Stock Option Plans and 8,021,507 shares of FNF Common Stock were held by FNF in its treasury. Except as set forth above, at the close of business on May 31, 2006, no shares of capital stock or other equity securities of FNF were issued, reserved for issuance or outstanding. All outstanding shares of capital stock of FNF are, and all shares which may be issued pursuant to the FNF Stock Option Plans will be, when issued, duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and not subject to preemptive rights. No bonds, debentures, notes or other indebtedness of FNF having the right to vote (or convertible into, or exchangeable for, securities having the right to vote) on any matters on which the stockholders of FNF may vote are issued or outstanding. Except as set forth above or in Section 3.1(b) of the FNF Disclosure Schedule, there are not any securities, options, warrants, rights, commitments or agreements of any kind to which FNF is a party or by which it is bound obligating it to issue, sell or deliver, or repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, shares of capital stock or other equity or voting securities of FNF, or obligating it to issue, sell, deliver, grant, extend or enter into any such security, option, warrant, right, commitment or agreement. Except as disclosed in Section 3.1(b) of the FNF Disclosure Schedule, FNF is not a party to or bound by any agreement, proxy or other arrangement restricting the transfer of FNF Common Stock or affecting the voting of any shares of capital stock of FNF. (c) Authority; Noncontravention. FNF has the requisite corporate power and authority to enter into this Agreement and, subject to the approval of its stockholders as set forth in Section 5.3 (the "FNF Stockholder Approval"), to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. The execution and delivery of this Agreement by FNF and the consummation by FNF of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of FNF, subject to the approval of its stockholders as set forth in Section 6.1(a). This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by FNF and, assuming this Agreement constitutes the valid and binding agreement of the Company, constitutes a valid and binding obligation of FNF, enforceable against FNF in accordance with its terms, subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency (including all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to the effect of general principles of equity. Except as disclosed in Section 3.1(c) of the FNF Disclosure Schedule, the execution and delivery of this Agreement do not, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and compliance with the provisions hereof will not, (i) conflict with any of the provisions of the FNF Charter or FNF By-laws, (ii) subject to the matters referred to in the next sentence, conflict with, result in a breach of or default (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) under, give rise to a right of termination, cancellation or acceleration of any obligation or loss of a material benefit under, require the consent of any person under, or result in the creation of any Lien on any property or asset of FNF under, any indenture or other agreement, permit, franchise, license or other instrument or undertaking to which FNF is a party or by which FNF or any of its assets is bound or affected, or (iii) subject to -10-
the matters referred to in the next sentence, contravene any statute, law, ordinance, rule, regulation, order, judgment, injunction, decree, determination or award applicable to FNF or any of its properties or assets, which, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii), individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have an FNF Material Adverse Effect. No consent, approval or authorization of, or declaration or filing with, or notice to, any court or governmental or regulatory authority or agency, domestic or foreign (a "Governmental Entity"), is required by or with respect to FNF in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement by FNF or the consummation by FNF of the transactions contemplated hereby, except for (i) the approvals, filings and/or notices required under the insurance laws of the jurisdictions set forth in Section 3.1(c)(i) of the FNF Disclosure Schedule, (ii) the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") of such reports and other filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as may be required in connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (iii) the filing of the Delaware Certificate of Merger and the Georgia Certificate of Merger with the Delaware Secretary of State and the Georgia Secretary of State, respectively, and appropriate documents with the relevant authorities of other states in which FNF is qualified to do business, (iv) such other consents, approvals, authorizations, declarations, filings or notices as are set forth in Section 3.1(c)(ii) of the FNF Disclosure Schedule and (v) such other consents, approvals, authorizations, declarations, filings or notices the failure to obtain or make which, in the aggregate, would not have an FNF Material Adverse Effect. (d) SEC Documents; Financial Statements. FNF has filed all required reports, schedules, forms, statements and other documents with the SEC since January 1, 2003 (such reports, schedules, forms, statements and other documents, as amended to the date hereof, are hereinafter referred to as the "FNF SEC Documents"). As of their respective dates, the FNF SEC Documents complied in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, as the case may be, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder applicable to such FNF SEC Documents, and none of the FNF SEC Documents as of such dates contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Except to the extent that information contained in any FNF SEC Document has been revised or superseded by a later Filed FNF SEC Document (as defined herein), none of the FNF SEC Documents contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The consolidated financial statements of FNF included in the FNF SEC Documents comply as to form in all material respects with applicable accounting requirements and the published rules and regulations of the SEC with respect thereto, have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (except, in the case of unaudited consolidated quarterly statements, as permitted by Form 10-Q of the SEC) applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved (except as may be indicated in the notes thereto) and present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of FNF and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the dates thereof and the consolidated results of their operations and cash flows for the periods then ended (subject, -11-
in the case of unaudited quarterly statements, to normal year-end adjustments). Except as set forth in the Filed FNF SEC Documents, as of the date hereof, FNF has no Liabilities required by generally accepted accounting principles to be set forth on a consolidated balance sheet of FNF and its consolidated subsidiaries or in the notes thereto, other than Liabilities (i) incurred since March 31, 2006 in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice or (ii) that would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have an FNF Material Adverse Effect. (e) Absence of Certain Changes or Events. Except as disclosed in the FNF SEC Documents filed and publicly available prior to the date of this Agreement (the "Filed FNF SEC Documents") or in Section 3.1(e) of the FNF Disclosure Schedule or in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, since the date of the most recent audited financial statements included in the Filed FNF SEC Documents, FNF has conducted its business only in the ordinary course, and there has not been (i) any change, circumstance, effect, event, development or occurrence that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have an FNF Material Adverse Effect, (ii) any declaration, setting aside or payment of any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, stock or property) with respect to any of FNF's outstanding capital stock (except for ordinary quarterly cash dividends), (iii) any split, combination or reclassification of any of its outstanding capital stock or any issuance or the authorization of any issuance of any other securities in respect of, in lieu of or in substitution for shares of its outstanding capital stock, (iv) (x) any granting by FNF to any of the President, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the General Counsel or any Executive Vice President (the "Executive Officers") of FNF of any increase in compensation, except in the ordinary course of business consistent with prior practice or as was required under employment agreements in effect as of the date of the most recent audited financial statements included in the Filed FNF SEC Documents, (y) any granting by FNF to any such Executive Officer of any increase in severance or termination pay, except as was required under any employment, severance or termination agreements in effect as of the date of the most recent audited financial statements included in the Filed FNF SEC Documents or (z) any entry by FNF into any employment, severance or termination agreement with any such Executive Officer or (v) any change in accounting methods, principles or practices by FNF materially affecting its assets, Liabilities or business, except insofar as may have been required by a change in generally accepted accounting principles. (f) Absence of Changes in Benefit Plans. Except as disclosed in the Filed FNF SEC Documents or in Section 3.1(f) of the FNF Disclosure Schedule, since the date of the most recent audited financial statements included in the Filed FNF SEC Documents, there has not been any adoption or amendment in any material respect by FNF of any collective bargaining agreement or any Benefit Plan (as defined herein). (g) Benefit Plans. (i) Each "employee pension benefit plan" (as defined in Section 3(2) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA") (hereinafter a "Pension Plan"), "employee welfare benefit plan" (as defined in -12-
Section 3(1) of ERISA) (hereinafter a "Welfare Plan"), and each other plan, arrangement or policy relating to compensation, deferred compensation, severance, fringe benefits or other employee benefits, in each case maintained or contributed to, or required to be maintained or contributed to, by FNF for the benefit of any present or former officer, employee, agent, director or independent contractor of FNF or any subsidiary thereof (including FNT and the Company) (all the foregoing being herein called "Benefit Plans") has been administered in accordance with its terms except where failure to administer in accordance with such terms would not have an FNF Material Adverse Effect. FNF and all the Benefit Plans are in compliance with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code, all other applicable laws and all applicable collective bargaining agreements except where failure to comply would not reasonably be expected to have an FNF Material Adverse Effect. A complete and correct copy of each Benefit Plan (other than any Benefit Plan maintained or sponsored by FNT or any of its subsidiaries), and the most recent trust agreement, custodial agreement or insurance contract relating thereto, have been made available to the Company. Section 3.1(g) of the FNF Disclosure Schedule sets forth a complete and correct list of each employment contract as to which FNF has any obligation or liability, contingent or otherwise. (ii) None of FNF or any other person or entity that together with FNF is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Code (each a "Commonly Controlled Entity") has incurred any material liability under Title IV of ERISA (other than for the payment of benefits or Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation insurance premiums, in either case in the ordinary course). (iii) No Commonly Controlled Entity is obligated to contribute to any "multiemployer plan" (as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA) or has withdrawn from or incurred any contractual liability to any multiemployer plan resulting or which would reasonably be expected to result in any material "withdrawal liability" (within the meaning of Section 4201 of ERISA) that has not been fully paid. (h) Taxes. (i) FNF has filed all tax returns and reports required to be filed by it or requests for extensions to file such returns or reports have been timely filed, granted and have not expired, except to the extent that such failures to file or to have extensions granted that remain in effect individually and in the aggregate would not have an FNF Material Adverse Effect. All tax returns filed by FNF are complete and accurate except to the extent that such failure to be complete and accurate would not have an FNF Material Adverse Effect. FNF has paid or caused to be paid all taxes shown as due on such returns, and the most recent financial statements contained in the Filed FNF SEC Documents reflect an adequate reserve for all taxes payable by FNF and its subsidiaries for all taxable periods and portions thereof accrued through the date of such financial statements. (ii) No deficiencies for any taxes have been proposed, asserted or assessed against FNF that are not adequately reserved for, except for deficiencies -13-
that individually or in the aggregate would not have an FNF Material Adverse Effect, and, except as set forth in Section 3.1(h) of the FNF Disclosure Schedule, no requests for waivers of the time to assess any such taxes have been granted or are pending. The Federal and state income tax returns of FNF and each of its subsidiaries consolidated in such returns have been examined by and settled with the United States Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") or the appropriate state taxation authorities, as the case may be, or the statute of limitations on assessment or collection of any Federal or state income taxes due from FNF or any of its subsidiaries has expired, for all taxable years of FNF or any of its subsidiaries through the taxable year ended (a) December 31, 2001 for Federal income taxes and (b) December 31, 1999 for state income taxes. (iii) As used in this Agreement, "taxes" shall include all federal, state, local and foreign income, premium, property, sales, excise, employment, payroll, withholdings and other taxes, tariffs or other governmental charges, including interest, penalties and other additions thereto. (i) No Excess Parachute Payments; Section 162(m) of the Code. (i) None of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall constitute a triggering event under any employment, severance or termination agreement or other compensation arrangement or Benefit Plan currently in effect which (either alone or upon the occurrence of any additional or subsequent event) would reasonably be expected to result in any payment, acceleration, vesting or increase in benefits to any current or former officer, employee or director of FNF and which would constitute an "excess parachute payment" (as such term is defined in Section 280G(b)(1) of the Code). (ii) Except as disclosed in Section 3.1(i) of the FNF Disclosure Schedule, the disallowance of a deduction under Section 162(m) of the Code for employee remuneration will not apply to any amount paid or payable by FNF under any contract, Benefit Plan, program, arrangement or understanding currently in effect. (j) Voting Requirements. The affirmative vote of holders of a majority of the shares of FNF Common Stock (with each share of FNF Common Stock having one vote per share) to approve and adopt this Agreement and the Merger is the only vote of the holders of any class or series of the capital stock of FNF necessary to approve and adopt this Agreement and the Merger and the transactions contemplated hereby. (k) Compliance with Applicable Laws. FNF has in full force and effect all Federal, state, local and foreign governmental approvals, authorizations, certificates, consents, filings, franchises, licenses, notices, permits and rights (collectively, "Permits") necessary for it to own, lease or operate its properties and assets and to carry on its business as now conducted, and there has occurred no default under any such Permit, in each case except for the failure of Permits to be in full force and effect or for defaults under Permits which failures or defaults individually or in the aggregate would not -14-
reasonably be expected to have an FNF Material Adverse Effect. Except as disclosed in the Filed FNF SEC Documents, FNF and the FNF Subsidiaries are in compliance with all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Entity, except for such noncompliance which individually or in the aggregate would not reasonably be expected to have an FNF Material Adverse Effect. Except as disclosed in the Filed FNF SEC Documents, as of the date of this Agreement, to the knowledge of FNF, no investigation, examination, inquiry, enforcement action or other proceeding by any Governmental Entity with respect to FNF is pending or threatened, other than, in each case, those the outcome of which, as far as reasonably can be foreseen, will not have a FNF Material Adverse Effect. (l) Opinion of Financial Advisor. FNF has received the opinion of its financial advisor, Bear Stearns & Co. Inc., dated the date hereof, to the effect that, as of such date, the consideration to be received by FNF and its stockholders pursuant to this Agreement and the Securities Exchange Agreement, taken together, is fair, from a financial point of view, to the stockholders of FNF. It is agreed and understood that such opinion is for the benefit of FNF's board of directors and may not be relied on by the Company. (m) Brokers. No broker, investment banker, financial advisor or other person, other than Bear Stearns & Co. Inc., the fees and expenses of which will be paid by FNF prior to the Effective Time, is entitled to any broker's, finder's, financial advisor's or other similar fee or commission in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of FNF. (n) The FNF Special Committee Recommendation; Board of Directors Recommendation. The FNF Special Committee has duly adopted at a special meeting held on June 25, 2006, resolutions recommending to the Board of Directors of FNF approval of this Agreement, the Merger, and the transactions contemplated hereby on the terms and conditions set forth herein. Upon the recommendation of FNF Special Committee, the Board of Directors of FNF, by resolutions duly adopted at a meeting duly called and held, has duly (i) determined that this Agreement and the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby are fair to and in the best interests of FNF and its stockholders, (ii) approved and declared advisable this Agreement and the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby and (iii) recommended that the stockholders of FNF adopt this Agreement and the Merger and the transactions contemplated hereby and directed that this Agreement and the Merger and the transactions contemplated hereby be submitted for adoption by FNF's stockholders at the FNF Stockholders Meeting (as defined herein). (o) Litigation. There is no suit, action, proceeding or arbitration pending or, to the knowledge of FNF, threatened against or affecting FNF that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to (i) have an FNF Material Adverse Effect or (ii) prevent the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, nor is there any judgment, decree, injunction or order of any Governmental Entity or arbitrator outstanding against FNF having, or which would reasonably be expected to have, any such effect. -15-
(p) No Assets and Liabilities. At the Effective Time, FNF will not own any assets other than the Assumption Agreement executed and delivered by FNT substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B pursuant to the Securities Exchange Agreement (the "Assumption Agreement"), the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement (as defined herein) and shares of Company Common Stock, and will not have any Liabilities that have not been assumed by FNT, other than the Excluded FNF Liabilities. (q) Information Supplied. None of the information supplied or to be supplied by FNF specifically for inclusion or incorporation by reference in (i) the registration statement on Form S-4 to be filed with the SEC by the Company in connection with the issuance of Company Common Stock in the Merger (the "Form S-4") will at the time it becomes effective under the Securities Act, at the time any amendment or supplement thereto becomes effective under the Securities Act or at the Effective Time, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or (ii) the information statement relating to the approval by the shareholders of the Company of the matters referred to in the second sentence of Section 5.3 and the proxy statement relating to the approval by the stockholders of FNF of the matters referred to in the first sentence of Section 5.3, in each case as amended or supplemented from time to time (collectively, the "Proxy Statement") will, at the date it is first mailed to the Company's shareholders or the FNF stockholders, as applicable, and at the time of the Company Shareholders Meeting (as defined herein) and the FNF Stockholders Meeting, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. (r) Section 203. FNF has taken all corporate action necessary to render inapplicable to the Merger, this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, the provisions of Section 203 of the DGCL. SECTION 3.2. Representations and Warranties of the Company. The Company represents and warrants to FNF as follows: (a) Organization, Standing and Corporate Power. The Company and each Company Subsidiary is a corporation, limited partnership, limited liability company or other legal entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing (in such jurisdictions where such concept is applicable) under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization and has the requisite corporate or entity power and authority to carry on its business as now being conducted. The Company and each Company Subsidiary is duly qualified to do business and is in good standing (in such jurisdictions where such concept is applicable) in each jurisdiction in which the nature of its business or the ownership or leasing of its properties makes such qualification necessary, other than in such jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified (individually or in the aggregate) would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect (as hereinafter defined). For purposes of this Agreement, (x) a "Company Subsidiary" means each subsidiary of the Company, and (y) a "Company Material Adverse Effect" means any change, circumstance, effect, event or occurrence that (i) would be materially adverse to the assets, Liabilities, business, -16-
financial condition or results of operations of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries taken as a whole, other than any change, circumstance, effect, event or occurrence resulting from (A) changes in general economic conditions affecting the United States, (B) general changes or developments in the industries in which the Company and the Company Subsidiaries operate or (C) the announcement of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, including any termination of, reduction in or similar negative impact on the relationships, contractual or otherwise, with any customers, distributors, partners or employees of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries to the extent due to the announcement of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, including any termination of, reduction in or similar negative impact on the relationships, contractual or otherwise, with any customers, distributors, partners or employees of FNF to the extent due to the announcement of this Agreement or the identity of the parties hereto, unless, in the case of the foregoing clauses (A) and (B), such changes referred to therein have a materially disproportionate effect on the Company and the Company Subsidiaries taken as a whole relative to other participants in the industry in which the Company and the Company Subsidiaries operate, or (ii) would have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Company to perform its obligations hereunder or to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby on a timely basis. The Company has delivered or made available to FNF complete and correct copies of the Company Charter and the Company By-laws and of the certificates of incorporation and by-laws, or other organizational documents, of each of the Company Subsidiaries, in each case as amended to the date of this Agreement. (b) Capital Structure. (i) The authorized capital stock of the Company consists of 600,000,000 shares of Company Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, and 200,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share. At the close of business on May 31, 2006, (i) 191,742,076 shares of Company Common Stock and no shares of preferred stock were issued and outstanding, (ii) 5,684,520 shares of Company Common Stock were held by subsidiaries of the Company or by the Company in its treasury and (iii) 13,579,610 shares of Company Common Stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding options to purchase shares of Company Common Stock granted under the Company's stock option plans (the "Company Stock Plans"). Except as set forth above, at the close of business on May 31, 2006, no shares of capital stock or other equity securities of the Company were issued, reserved for issuance or outstanding. All outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company are, and all shares which may be issued pursuant to this Agreement or upon the exercise of options under the Company Stock Plans will be, when issued, duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and not subject to preemptive rights. No bonds, debentures, notes or other indebtedness of the Company having the right to vote (or convertible into, or exchangeable for, securities having the right to vote) on any matters on which the shareholders of the Company may vote are issued or outstanding. Except as set forth above, there are not any securities, options, warrants, rights, commitments or agreements of any kind to which the Company is a party or by which any of them is bound obligating any of them to issue, sell or deliver, or -17-
repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, shares of capital stock or other equity or voting securities of the Company, or obligating the Company to issue, sell, deliver, grant, extend or enter into any such security, option, warrant, right, commitment or agreement. Except as set forth in Section 3.2(b)(i) of the Disclosure Schedule delivered by the Company to FNF at or prior to the execution of this Agreement (the "Company Disclosure Schedule"), the Company is not a party to or bound by any agreement, proxy or other arrangement restricting the transfer of Company Common Stock or affecting the voting of any shares of capital stock of the Company. (ii) Section 3.2(b)(ii) of the Company Disclosure Schedule lists each Company Subsidiary. Except as set forth in Section 3.2(b)(ii) of the Company Disclosure Schedule, all of the outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity securities of each Company Subsidiary have been validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable (in the case of any Company Subsidiary that is not organized in the United States, to the extent such concepts are applicable) and are owned by the Company, free and clear of all Liens. No bonds, debentures, notes or other indebtedness of any Company Subsidiary having the right to vote (or convertible into, or exchangeable for, securities having the right to vote) on any matters on which the shareholders of any Company Subsidiary may vote are issued or outstanding. Except as set forth in Section 3.2(b)(ii) of the Company Disclosure Schedule, there are no securities, options, warrants, rights, commitments or agreements of any kind to which the Company or any Company Subsidiary is a party or by which any of them is bound obligating any of them to issue, sell or deliver, or repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, shares of capital stock or other equity or voting securities of any Company Subsidiary, or obligating any of them to issue, sell, deliver, grant, extend or enter into any such security, option, warrant, right, commitment or agreement. Except as set forth in Section 3.2(b)(ii) of the Company Disclosure Schedule, neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary is a party to or bound by any agreement, proxy or other arrangement restricting the transfer or affecting the voting of any shares of capital stock of any Company Subsidiary. Except for the capital stock or other equity securities of such subsidiaries and the other ownership interests listed in Section 3.2(b)(ii) of the Company Disclosure Schedule, the Company does not own, directly or indirectly, any capital stock or other ownership interest in any person other than interests held for investment purposes that do not exceed 10% of the voting securities of any such single person. (c) Authority; Noncontravention. The Company has all requisite corporate power and authority to enter into this Agreement and, subject to the approval of its shareholders as set forth in Section 5.3 (the "Company Shareholder Approval"), the Company and each of the Company Subsidiaries has all requisite corporate power and authority to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. The execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Company and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company, subject to the Company Shareholder Approval. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the -18-
Company and, assuming this Agreement constitutes the valid and binding agreement of FNF, constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency (including all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to the effect of general principles of equity. Except as disclosed in Section 3.2(c) of the Company Disclosure Schedule, the execution and delivery of this Agreement does not, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and compliance with the provisions of this Agreement will not, (i) conflict with any of the provisions of the Company Charter or the Company By-laws, (ii) subject to the matters referred to in the next sentence, conflict with, result in a breach of or default (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) under, give rise to a right of termination, cancellation or acceleration of any obligation or loss of a material benefit under, require the consent of any person under, or result in the creation of any Lien on any property or asset of the Company or any Company Subsidiary under, any indenture or other agreement, permit, franchise, license or other instrument or undertaking to which the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries or any of their assets is bound or affected, or (iii) subject to the matters referred to in the next sentence, contravene any statute, law, ordinance, rule, regulation, order, judgment, injunction, decree, determination or award applicable to the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or assets, which, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii), individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. No consent, approval or authorization of, or declaration or filing with, or notice to, any Governmental Entity is required by or with respect to the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Company or the consummation by the Company or any Company Subsidiary, as the case may be, of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, except for (i) the filing of premerger notification and report forms under the Hart-Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the "HSR Act") with respect to the Merger, (ii) the approvals, filings and/or notices required under the insurance laws of the jurisdictions set forth in Section 3.2(c)(i) of the Company Disclosure Schedule, (iii) the filing with the SEC of such reports and other filings under the Exchange Act as may be required in connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (iv) the filing with the SEC of the Form S-4 and the Proxy Statement relating to the matters referred to in the first and second sentences of Section 5.3, (v) the filing of the certificate of merger with the Delaware Secretary of State and the Georgia Secretary of State, and appropriate documents with the relevant authorities of other states in which the Company is qualified to do business, (vi) such other consents, approvals, authorizations, filings or notices as are set forth in Section 3.2(c)(ii) of the Company Disclosure Schedule and (vii) such other consents, approvals, authorizations, declarations, filings or notices the failure to obtain or make which, in the aggregate, would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect. (d) SEC Documents; Financial Statements. (i) The Company has filed all required reports, schedules, forms, statements and other documents with the SEC since January 1, 2003 (such reports, schedules, forms, statements and other documents, as -19-
amended to the date hereof, the "Company SEC Documents"). As of their respective dates, the Company SEC Documents complied in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as the case may be, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder applicable to such Company SEC Documents, and none of the Company SEC Documents as of such dates contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Except to the extent that information contained in any Company SEC Document has been revised or superseded by a later Filed Company SEC Document (as defined herein), none of the Company SEC Documents contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The consolidated financial statements of the Company included in the Company SEC Documents comply as to form in all material respects with applicable accounting requirements and the published rules and regulations of the SEC with respect thereto, have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (except, in the case of unaudited consolidated quarterly statements, as permitted by Form 10-Q of the SEC) applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved (except as may be indicated in the notes thereto) and present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the dates thereof and the consolidated results of their operations and cash flows for the periods then ended (subject, in the case of unaudited quarterly statements, to normal year-end audit adjustments). Except as set forth in the Filed Company SEC Documents, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has any Liabilities required by generally accepted accounting principles to be set forth on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries or in the notes thereto, other than Liabilities (i) incurred since March 31, 2006 in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice or (ii) that would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. (e) Absence of Certain Changes or Events. Except as disclosed in the Company SEC Documents filed and publicly available prior to the date of this Agreement (the "Filed Company SEC Documents") or in Section 3.2(e) of the Company Disclosure Schedule or in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, since the date of the most recent audited financial statements included in the Filed Company SEC Documents, the Company and each Company Subsidiary has conducted its business only in the ordinary course, and there has not been (i) any change, circumstance, effect, event, development or occurrence that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, (ii) any declaration, setting aside or payment of any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, stock or property) with respect to any of the Company's outstanding capital stock (except for ordinary quarterly cash dividends), (iii) any split, combination or reclassification of any of its outstanding capital stock or any issuance or the authorization of any issuance of any other securities in respect of, in lieu of or in substitution for shares of its outstanding capital stock, (iv) (x) any granting by the Company or any Company Subsidiary to any Executive Officers of the Company of any increase in compensation, except in the -20-
ordinary course of business consistent with prior practice or as was required under employment agreements in effect as of the date of the most recent audited financial statements included in the Filed Company SEC Documents, (y) any granting by the Company or any Company Subsidiary to any such Executive Officer of the Company of any increase in severance or termination pay, except as was required under any employment, severance or termination agreements in effect as of the date of the most recent audited financial statements included in the Filed Company SEC Documents or (z) any entry by the Company or any of its subsidiaries into any employment, severance or termination agreement with any such Executive Officer of the Company or (v) any change in accounting methods, principles or practices by the Company or any Company Subsidiary materially affecting its assets, Liabilities or business, except insofar as may have been required by a change in generally accepted accounting principles. (f) Absence of Changes in Benefit Plans. Except as disclosed in the Filed Company SEC Documents or in Section 3.2(f) of the Company Disclosure Schedule, since the date of the most recent audited financial statements included in the Filed Company SEC Documents, there has not been any adoption or amendment by the Company or any Company Subsidiary of any collective bargaining agreement or any Company Benefit Plan (as defined herein). (g) Benefit Plans. (i) Each Pension Plan, Welfare Plan, and each other plan, arrangement or policy relating to compensation, deferred compensation, severance, fringe benefits or other employee benefits, in each case maintained or contributed to, or required to be maintained or contributed to, by the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries for the benefit of any present or former officer, employee, agent, director or independent contractor of the Company or any Company Subsidiary (all the foregoing being herein called "Company Benefit Plans") has been administered in accordance with its terms except where failure to administer in accordance with such terms would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. The Company, each of the Company Subsidiaries and all the Company Benefit Plans are in compliance with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code, all other applicable laws and all applicable collective bargaining agreements except where failure to comply would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. A complete and correct copy of each Company Benefit Plan, and the most recent trust agreement, custodial agreement or insurance contract relating thereto, have been made available to FNF. Section 3.2(g) of the Company Disclosure Schedule sets forth a complete and correct list of each employment contract as to which the Company has any obligation or liability, contingent or otherwise. (ii) None of the Company or any other person or entity that together with the Company is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Code (each a "Company Commonly Controlled Entity") has incurred any material liability under Title IV of ERISA (other than for the payment of -21-
benefits or Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation insurance premiums, in either case in the ordinary course). (iii) No Company Commonly Controlled Entity is obligated to contribute to any "multiemployer plan" (as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA) or has withdrawn from or incurred any contractual liability to any multiemployer plan resulting or which would reasonably be expected to result in any material "withdrawal liability" (within the meaning of Section 4201 of ERISA) that has not been fully paid. (h) Taxes. (i) Each of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries has filed all tax returns and reports required to be filed by it or requests for extensions to file such returns or reports have been timely filed, granted and have not expired, except to the extent that such failures to file or to have extensions granted that remain in effect individually or in the aggregate would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect. All tax returns filed by the Company and each Company Subsidiary are complete and accurate except to the extent that such failure to be complete and accurate would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect. The Company and each Company Subsidiary has paid (or the Company has paid on behalf of the Company Subsidiary) all taxes shown as due on such returns, and the most recent financial statements contained in the Filed Company SEC Documents reflect an adequate reserve for all taxes payable by the Company and its subsidiaries for all taxable periods and portions thereof accrued through the date of such financial statements. (ii) No deficiencies for any taxes have been proposed, asserted or assessed against the Company or any of its subsidiaries that are not adequately reserved for, except for deficiencies that individually or in the aggregate would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect, and, except as set forth in Section 3.2(h) of the Company Disclosure Schedule, no requests for waivers of the time to assess any such taxes have been granted or are pending. The Federal and state income tax returns of the Company and each of its subsidiaries consolidated in such returns have been examined by and settled with the IRS or the appropriate state taxation authorities, as the case may be, or the statute of limitations on assessment or collection of any Federal or state income taxes due from the Company or any of its subsidiaries has expired, for all taxable years of the Company or any of its subsidiaries through the taxable year ended (a) December 31, 2001, for Federal income taxes and (b) December 31, 1999, for state income taxes. (i) No Excess Parachute Payments; Section 162(m) of the Code. (i) Except as disclosed in Section 3.2(i) of the Company Disclosure Schedule, none of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall constitute a triggering event under any employment, severance or termination -22-
agreement or other compensation arrangement or Company Benefit Plan currently in effect which (either alone or upon the occurrence of any additional or subsequent event) would reasonably be expected to result in any payment, acceleration, vesting or increase in benefits to any current or former officer, employee or director of the Company or any of its subsidiaries and which would constitute an "excess parachute payment" (as such term is defined in Section 280G(b)(1) of the Code). (ii) Except as disclosed in Section 3.2(i) of the Company Disclosure Schedule, the disallowance of a deduction under Section 162(m) of the Code for employee remuneration will not apply to any amount paid or payable by the Company or any Company Subsidiary under any contract, Company Benefit Plan, program, arrangement or understanding currently in effect. (j) Voting Requirements. The affirmative vote of the shareholders of the Company by the requisite vote in accordance with the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual and any applicable law to approve the issuance of the Company Common Stock in the Merger and the Company Incentive Plan Amendment (as defined herein) is the only vote of the holders of any class or series of Company Common Stock necessary to approve issuance of the Company Common Stock in the Merger and this Agreement and any of the transactions contemplated hereby, including the Company Incentive Plan Amendment. (k) Compliance with Applicable Laws. Except as set forth in Section 3.2(k) of the Company Disclosure Schedule, each of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries has in full force and effect all Permits necessary for it to own, lease or operate its properties and assets and to carry on its business as now conducted, and there has occurred no default under any such Permit, in each case except for the failure of Permits to be in full force and effect or for defaults under Permits which failures or defaults individually or in the aggregate would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. Except as disclosed in the Filed Company SEC Documents, the Company and the Company Subsidiaries are in compliance with all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Entity, except for such noncompliance which individually or in the aggregate would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. Except as disclosed in the Filed Company SEC Documents, as of the date of this Agreement, to the knowledge of the Company, no investigation, examination, inquiry, enforcement action or other proceeding by any Governmental Entity with respect to the Company or any of its subsidiaries is pending or threatened, other than, in each case, those the outcome of which, as far as reasonably can be foreseen, will not have a Company Material Adverse Effect. (l) Opinion of Financial Advisor. The Company has received the opinion of its financial advisor, Stephens, Inc., dated the date hereof, to the effect that, as of such date, the Conversion Number is fair from a financial point of view to the shareholders of the Company other than FNF. It is agreed and understood that such opinion is for the benefit of the Company's board of directors and may not be relied on by FNF. -23-
(m) Brokers. No broker, investment banker, financial advisor or other person, other than Stephens, Inc., the fees and expenses of which will be paid by the Company, is entitled to any broker's, finder's, financial advisor's or other similar fee or commission in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of the Company. (n) The Company Special Committee Recommendation; Board of Directors Recommendation. The Company Special Committee has duly adopted at a special meeting held on June 25, 2006, resolutions recommending to the Board of Directors of the Company approval of this Agreement, the Merger, the issuance of Company Common Stock in the Merger and the transactions contemplated hereby on the terms and conditions set forth herein. Upon the recommendation of the Company Special Committee, the Board of Directors of the Company, by resolutions duly adopted at a meeting duly called and held, has duly (i) determined that this Agreement, the Merger, the issuance of Company Common Stock in the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby are fair to and in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, (ii) adopted, approved and declared advisable this Agreement and the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby and (iii) recommended that the shareholders of the Company approve the issuance of Company Common Stock in the Merger and the Company Incentive Plan Amendment and directed that the issuance of Company Common Stock in the Merger and the Company Incentive Plan Amendment be submitted for approval of the Company's shareholders at the Company Shareholders Meeting (as defined herein). (o) Litigation. Except as set forth in Section 3.2(o) of the Company Disclosure Schedule, there is no suit, action, proceeding or arbitration pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against or affecting the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to (i) have a Company Material Adverse Effect (other than as described in the Filed Company SEC Documents) or (ii) prevent the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, nor is there any judgment, decree, injunction or order of any Governmental Entity or arbitrator outstanding against the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries having, or which would reasonably be expected to have, any such effect. (p) Transaction Documents. None of the information contained in (i) the Form S-4 will, at the time it becomes effective under the Securities Act, at the time any amendment or supplement thereto becomes effective under the Securities Act or at the Effective Time, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or (ii) the Proxy Statement will, at the date the Proxy Statement is first mailed to the Company's or FNF's stockholders or at the time of the Company Shareholders Meeting or the FNF Stockholders Meeting, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. The S-4 and the Proxy Statement will comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations -24-
promulgated thereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no representation or warranty is made by the Company in this Section 3.2(p) with respect to information supplied by FNF specifically for inclusion or incorporation by reference in the Form S-4 or the Proxy Statement. (q) Fair Price Requirements; State Anti-Takeover Statutes. The Board of Directors of the Company has taken all actions necessary so that the Merger and other transactions contemplated by this Agreement have been approved in accordance with Section 1111(1) of the GBCC, and no additional shareholder vote pursuant to Section 1111(2) of the GBCC shall be required in order to effectuate the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Neither Section 1132 of the GBCC nor, to the Company's knowledge, any other "fair price" (other than Sections 1110-1113 of the GBCC), "moratorium," "control share acquisition" or other state takeover statute or similar statute or regulation is applicable to the Merger or any other transaction contemplated by this Agreement. ARTICLE IV COVENANTS RELATING TO CONDUCT OF BUSINESS PRIOR TO MERGER SECTION 4.1. Conduct of Business by the Company. (a) Except as specifically contemplated by this Agreement, or as set forth on Section 4.1(a) of the Disclosure Schedule or as required by applicable law, during the period from the date of this Agreement to the Effective Time, the Company shall, and shall cause the Company Subsidiaries to, carry on their respective businesses only in the ordinary and usual course of business consistent with past practice and, to the extent consistent therewith, use all reasonable efforts to preserve intact their current business organizations, keep available the services of their current officers and employees and preserve their relationships with Government Entities, customers, suppliers, distributors, creditors, lessors and other persons having business dealings with them to the end that their goodwill and ongoing businesses shall be unimpaired at the Effective Time. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, during the period from the date of this Agreement to the Effective Time, except as set forth on Section 4.1(b) of the Disclosure Schedule or as otherwise expressly required by or provided for in this Agreement, the Company shall not, and shall not permit any of the Company Subsidiaries to, without the prior consent of FNF: (i) (x) declare, set aside or pay any dividends on, or make any other distributions (whether in cash, stock or property) in respect of, any outstanding capital stock of the Company, other than ordinary quarterly cash dividends, (y) split, combine or reclassify any of its outstanding capital stock or issue or authorize the issuance of any other securities in respect of, in lieu of or in substitution for shares of its outstanding capital stock or (z) except as required by the terms of any agreement, arrangement or plan in effect as of the date hereof, purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any shares of outstanding capital stock or any rights, warrants or options to acquire any such shares; -25-
(ii) issue, sell, grant, pledge or otherwise encumber any shares of its capital stock, any other voting securities or any securities convertible into, or any rights, warrants or options to acquire, any such shares, voting securities or convertible securities, other than upon the exercise of options outstanding on the date of this Agreement under the Company Stock Plans; (iii) amend or propose any change to its certificate of incorporation, by-laws or other comparable charter or organizational documents; (iv) (w) acquire, in any transaction or a series of related transactions, (1) any business or any corporation, partnership, joint venture, association or other business organization or division thereof other than the acquisition of the shares of National Title Insurance of New York, Inc. or (2) any assets that are material, individually or in the aggregate, to the Company and the Company Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (x) merge or consolidate itself or any of its Subsidiaries with any other Person, except for any such transactions among its wholly owned Subsidiaries, (y) restructure, reorganize or completely or partially liquidate or (z) otherwise enter into any agreements or arrangements imposing material changes or restrictions on its assets, operations or businesses, when taken as a whole; (v) sell, lease, license, mortgage or otherwise encumber or subject to any Lien or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets that are material to the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice; (vi) (x) incur any indebtedness for borrowed money or guarantee or otherwise become responsible for any such indebtedness of another person, other than indebtedness in an amount less than $2,000,000 individually or $10,000,000 in the aggregate or indebtedness owing to or guarantees owing to the Company or any direct or indirect wholly-owned Company Subsidiary (it being understood that the Company's guarantee of the performance of a Company Subsidiary to a third party customer or vendor shall not constitute an incurrence of indebtedness under this subsection), or (y) make any loans, advances or capital contributions to, or investments in, any other person, other than to the Company or to any direct or indirect wholly-owned Company Subsidiary and routine, immaterial advances to employees, and other than purchases of investment assets in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice; (vii) except in accordance with the Company's budget which exists as of the date hereof, make or agree to make any new capital expenditure or expenditures which, individually, involves payments of in excess of $10,000,000 or, in the aggregate, involve payments of in excess of $25,000,000; (viii) pay, discharge, settle or satisfy any claims, liabilities or obligations (absolute, accrued, asserted or unasserted, contingent or otherwise), other than the payment, discharge or satisfaction, in the ordinary course of business consistent -26-
with past practice or in accordance with their terms, of liabilities reflected or reserved against in, or contemplated by, the most recent consolidated financial statements (or the notes thereto) of the Company included in the Filed Company SEC Documents or incurred since the date of such financial statements in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, or in amounts not in excess of $2,000,000 in each case; (ix) make any change in accounting methods, principles or practices used by the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries materially affecting its assets, liabilities or business, except insofar as may be required by a change in generally accepted accounting principles; (x) other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, cancel, modify or waive any material debts or claims held by it or waive any material rights under any material contract to which the Company of any of its Subsidiaries is a party; (xi) except as required pursuant to existing written, binding agreements or policies in effect prior to the date of this Agreement, or as otherwise required by applicable law, (w) grant or provide any material severance or termination payments or benefits to any director, officer or employee of the Company, except, in the case of employees who are not officers, in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, (x) materially increase the compensation, bonus or pension, welfare, severance or other benefits of, pay any material bonus to, or make any new equity awards to any director, officer or employee of the Company, except for increases in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice for employees who are not officers, (y) establish, adopt, materially amend or terminate any Company Benefit Plan or amend the terms of any outstanding equity-based awards, or (z) take any action to accelerate the vesting or payment, or fund or in any other way secure the payment, of compensation or benefits under any Company Benefit Plan, to the extent not already provided in any such Company Benefit Plan; or (xii) authorize any of, or commit or agree to take any of, the foregoing actions. (b) Conduct of Business of FNF. FNF shall not take any action that would cause it to own any assets at the Effective Time other than the Assumption Agreement, the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement and shares of Company Common Stock or to have any Liabilities at the Effective Time (other than Excluded FNF Liabilities) that have not been assumed by FNT. SECTION 4.2. Other Actions. The Company, each Company Subsidiary and FNF shall not take any action that would, or that would reasonably be expected to, result in any of the conditions set forth in Article VI not being satisfied. The Company shall give prompt notice to FNF, and FNF shall give prompt notice to the Company, of any event, condition or circumstance of which it becomes aware that would constitute a violation or breach of this -27-
Agreement by it; provided, however, that no such notification shall affect the representations, warranties, covenants or agreements of the parties or the conditions to the obligations of the parties under this Agreement. ARTICLE V ADDITIONAL AGREEMENTS SECTION 5.1. Preparation of Form S-4 and the Proxy Statement. As soon as practicable following the date of this Agreement, the Company and FNF shall prepare and file with the SEC the Form S-4, in which the Proxy Statement will be included as a prospectus. Each of the Company and FNF shall use its reasonable best efforts to have the Proxy Statement cleared by the SEC under the Exchange Act and have the Form S-4 declared effective under the Securities Act as promptly as practicable after such filing. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Proxy Statement to be mailed to the Company's shareholders and FNF shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Proxy Statement to be mailed to FNF's stockholders, in each case as promptly as practicable after the Form S-4 is declared effective. The Company shall also take, in consultation with FNF and its counsel, any action (other than qualifying to do business in any jurisdiction in which it is not now so qualified) required to be taken under any applicable state securities laws in connection with the issuance of Company Common Stock in the Merger and FNF shall furnish all information concerning FNF and the holders of the FNF Common Stock as may be reasonably requested in connection with any such action. No filing of, or amendment or supplement to, the Form S-4 or the Proxy Statement will be made by the Company or FNF without providing the other party the opportunity to review and comment thereon. Each party shall promptly notify the other party upon the receipt of any comments from the SEC or its staff or any request from the SEC or its staff for amendments or supplements to the Form S-4 or Proxy Statement and shall provide the other party with copies of all correspondence between it and its representatives, on the one hand, and the SEC and its staff, on the other hand, relating to the Form S-4 and the Proxy Statement. The Company shall advise FNF, promptly after it receives notice thereof, of the time when the Form S-4 becomes effective or any supplement or amendment has been filed, the issuance of any stop order, the suspension of the qualification of Company Common Stock issuable in connection with the Merger for offering or sale in any jurisdiction. If at any time prior to the Company Shareholders Meeting or the FNF Stockholders Meeting, any information relating to the Company or FNF or any of their respective affiliates, officers or directors, should be discovered by the Company or FNF which is required by applicable law to be set forth in an amendment or supplement to the Form S-4 or the Proxy Statement, so that the Form S-4 or Proxy Statement shall not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading, the party which discovers such information shall promptly notify the other parties, and an appropriate amendment or supplement describing such information shall be filed with the SEC and, to the extent required by applicable law, disseminated to the shareholders of the Company and the stockholders of FNF. The Company shall not mail or use the Proxy Statement or any amendment or supplement thereto without the prior approval of FNF of the form and content thereof, which approval of the content thereof, which approval will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. -28-
SECTION 5.2. Treatment of Company Stock Options. In connection with the Merger, the Company shall take all actions necessary so that each outstanding option to purchase shares of Company Common Stock held by an employee or director who, following the Merger, shall be employed solely by or solely serve as a director of FNT or any subsidiary thereof, shall be fully vested as of the Effective Time. SECTION 5.3. Meetings of Stockholders. FNF shall take all action necessary in accordance with applicable law and the FNF Charter and FNF By-laws to convene a meeting of its stockholders (the "FNF Stockholders Meeting") to consider and vote upon the adoption of this Agreement and to cause such vote to be taken. The Company shall take all action necessary in accordance with applicable law and the Company Charter and Company By-laws to convene a meeting of its shareholders (the "Company Shareholders Meeting") to consider and vote upon the approval of the issuance of Company Common Stock in the Merger and the Company Incentive Plan Amendment (collectively, the "Company Vote Items") and to cause such vote to be taken. Subject to Section 5.8 hereof, FNF and the Company shall, through their respective Boards of Directors, recommend to their respective stockholders adoption or approval, as the case may be, of the foregoing matters and FNF shall take all lawful action to solicit such adoption or approval, as the case may be, by its stockholders. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (x) FNF agrees that its obligations pursuant to the first and last sentences of this Section 5.3 shall not be affected by the withdrawal or modification by the Board of Directors of FNF of its approval or recommendation of this Agreement or the Merger and (y) the Company agrees that its obligations pursuant to the second and last sentences of this Section 5.3 shall not be affected by the withdrawal or modification by the Board of Directors of the Company of its approval or recommendation of any of the Company Vote Items. FNF and the Company shall use reasonable efforts to hold the FNF Stockholders Meeting and the Company Shareholders Meeting on the same day as the meeting of stockholders of FNT to be held to approve the Securities Exchange Agreement and use their reasonable best efforts to hold such meetings as soon as practicable after the Form S-4 is declared effective. SECTION 5.4. Access to Information; Confidentiality. Each of FNF and the Company shall, and shall cause any of its respective subsidiaries to, afford to the other party and to the officers, employees, counsel, financial advisors, accountants, actuaries and other representatives of such other party reasonable access during normal business hours during the period prior to the Effective Time to all its properties, books, contracts, commitments, personnel and records and, during such period, each of FNF and the Company shall, and shall cause each of its respective subsidiaries to, furnish as promptly as practicable to the other party such information concerning its business, properties, financial condition, operations and personnel as such other party may from time to time reasonably request. SECTION 5.5. Reasonable Best Efforts. Upon the terms and subject to the conditions and other agreements set forth in this Agreement, each of the parties agrees to use its reasonable best efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions, and to do, or cause to be done, and to assist and cooperate with the other party in doing, all things necessary, proper or advisable to consummate and make effective, in the most expeditious manner practicable, the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement. -29-
SECTION 5.6. Public Announcements. The Company, on the one hand, and FNF, on the other hand, shall consult with each other before issuing, and provide each other the opportunity to review and comment upon, any press release or other public statements with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including the Merger, and shall not issue any such press release or make any such public statement prior to such consultation, except as may be required by applicable law, court process or by obligations pursuant to any listing agreement with any national securities exchange (in which case the party subject to such obligations shall advise the other party of such requirement). SECTION 5.7. Acquisition Proposals. The Company shall not, nor shall it permit any of its subsidiaries to, nor shall it authorize or permit any officer, director or employee of, or any investment banker, attorney or other advisor, representative or agent of, the Company or any Company Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly, (i) solicit, initiate or encourage the submission of any Company Acquisition Proposal (as defined below), or take any other action to knowingly facilitate any inquiries or the making of any proposal that constitutes, or may reasonably be expected to lead to, any Company Acquisition Proposal or (ii) participate in or continue any discussions or negotiations regarding, or furnish to any person any non-public information with respect to, any Company Acquisition Proposal. Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the time, but not after, the requisite vote of the Company Stockholders is obtained, if the Board of Directors of the Company determines in good faith, following consultation with outside counsel, that such action is required in order for such directors to comply with their fiduciary duties under applicable law, the Company, any Company Subsidiary or any officer, director or employee of, or any investment banker, attorney or other advisor, representative or agent of, the Company or any Company Subsidiary may, following the receipt of an unsolicited Company Acquisition Proposal by the Company, participate in negotiations regarding such Company Acquisition Proposal or furnish information regarding the Company and its business pursuant to an appropriate confidentiality agreement to the person making such Company Acquisition Proposal. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the Company shall promptly advise FNF orally and in writing of the receipt by it (or any of the other entities or persons referred to above) after the date hereof of any Company Acquisition Proposal, or any inquiry which could lead to any Company Acquisition Proposal, the material terms and conditions of such Company Acquisition Proposal or inquiry, and the identity of the person making any such Company Acquisition Proposal or inquiry. The Company shall keep FNF fully informed of the status and details of any such Company Acquisition Proposal or inquiry. For purposes of this Agreement, "Company Acquisition Proposal" means any proposal or offer for a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving the Company or any Company Subsidiary or any proposal or offer to acquire or cause to be acquired in any manner, directly or indirectly, all or substantially all of the business, assets or capital stock of the Company, other than the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. SECTION 5.8. Fiduciary Duties. (a) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) prior to the Company Shareholder Approval, but not after, the Board of Directors of the Company may withdraw or modify its recommendation, or propose to do so, with respect to the Merger in a manner adverse to FNF if the Board of Directors of the Company concludes in good faith, after consultation with its independent financial advisor and outside legal counsel, -30-
that the withdrawal or modification of such recommendation is required in order for the Board of Directors of the Company to comply with its fiduciary duties under applicable law (it being understood that publicly taking a neutral position or no position with respect to a Company Acquisition Proposal at any time beyond ten business days after the first public announcement of such a proposal shall be considered an adverse modification) and (ii) prior to the FNF Stockholder Approval, but not after, the Board of Directors of FNF may withdraw or modify its recommendation, or propose to do so, with respect to the Merger in a manner adverse to the Company if the Board of Directors of FNF concludes in good faith, after consultation with its independent financial advisor and outside legal counsel, that the withdrawal or modification of such recommendation is required in order for the Board of Directors of FNF to comply with its fiduciary duties under applicable law. No change of recommendation may be made by the Company until at least 48 hours following FNF's receipt of notice from the Company that the Board of Directors of the Company intends to change its recommendation and the basis therefor, including all necessary information under Section 5.7. In determining whether to make a change of recommendation in response to a Company Acquisition Proposal or otherwise, the Company Board of Directors shall take into account any changes to the terms of this Agreement proposed by FNF and any other information provided by FNF in response to such notice. Any material amendment to any Company Acquisition Proposal will be deemed to be a new Company Acquisition Proposal for purposes of this Section 5.8(a), including with respect to the notice period referred to in this Section 5.8(a). (b) Nothing contained in this Agreement shall prohibit FNF from taking and disclosing to its stockholders a position contemplated by Rule 14e-2(a) promulgated under the Exchange Act or from making any disclosure to FNF's stockholders which, in the good faith reasonable judgment of the Board of Directors of FNF based on the advice of counsel, is required under applicable law; provided that FNF does not withdraw or modify, or propose to withdraw or modify, its position with respect to this Agreement or the Merger other than as set forth in Section 5.8(a). Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, any action by the Board of Directors of FNF permitted by this Section 5.8 shall not constitute a breach of this Agreement by FNF. (c) Nothing contained in this Agreement shall prohibit the Company from taking and disclosing to its shareholders a position contemplated by Rule 14e-2(a) promulgated under the Exchange Act or from making any disclosure to the Company's shareholders which, in the good faith reasonable judgment of the Board of Directors of the Company based on the advice of counsel, is required under applicable law; provided that the Company does not withdraw or modify, or propose to withdraw or modify, its position with respect to any of the Company Vote Items other than as set forth in Section 5.8(a). Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, any action by the Board of Directors of the Company permitted by this Section 5.8 shall not constitute a breach of this Agreement by the Company. SECTION 5.9. Consents, Approvals and Filings. (i) FNF and the Company shall make and cause their respective subsidiaries to make all necessary filings, as soon as practicable, including those required under the HSR Act, the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, state securities laws and state insurance laws in order to facilitate prompt consummation of the -31-
Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement. In addition, FNF and the Company shall each use their reasonable best efforts, and shall cooperate fully with each other (i) to comply as promptly as practicable with all governmental requirements applicable to the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement and (ii) to obtain as promptly as practicable all necessary permits, orders or other consents, approvals or authorizations of Governmental Entities and consents or waivers of all third parties necessary or advisable for the consummation of the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Each of FNF and the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to provide such information and communications to Governmental Entities as such Governmental Entities may reasonably request. (ii) Each of the parties shall provide to the other party copies of all applications in advance of filing or submission of such applications to Governmental Entities in connection with this Agreement. (iii) Subject to applicable law and the instructions of any Governmental Entity, FNF and the Company each shall keep the other apprised of the status of matters relating to completion of the transactions contemplated hereby, including promptly furnishing the other with copies of notices or other communications received by FNF or the Company, as the case may be, or any of their respective subsidiaries, from any third party or any Governmental Entity with respect to such transactions. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, FNF shall keep the Company informed to the fullest extent practicable of all developments concerning the IRS private letter ruling referred to in Section 6.2(c) and 6.3(c) and shall provide the Company with reasonable opportunity to review and comment on all submissions to the IRS in connection therewith prior to such submission (except to the extent that providing such opportunity is not reasonably practicable, in which case FNF shall provide the Company with a copy of such submission as soon as practicable following such submission). The Company shall give prompt notice to FNF of any change, fact or condition that is reasonably likely to result in a Company Material Adverse Effect or of any failure of any condition to FNF's obligations to effect the Merger, and FNF shall give prompt notice to the Company of any change, fact or condition that is reasonably likely to result in a FNF Material Adverse Effect or of any failure of any condition to the Company's obligations to effect the Merger. SECTION 5.10. Spin-Off. FNF and the Company shall not, and shall cause their respective subsidiaries not to, take or cause to be taken any action that would be likely to disqualify the Spin-off as a tax-free spin-off within the meaning of Section 355 of the Code. SECTION 5.11. Affiliates and Certain Stockholders. Prior to the Closing Date, FNF shall deliver to the Company a letter identifying all persons who are, at the time the Merger is submitted for adoption by the stockholders of FNF, "affiliates" of FNF for purposes of Rule 145 under the Securities Act. FNF shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause each such person to deliver to the Company on or prior to the Closing Date a written agreement substantially in the form attached as Exhibit C hereto. The Company shall not be required to maintain the effectiveness of the Form S-4 for the purposes of resale of Company Common Stock by such affiliates and the certificates representing Company Common Stock received by such affiliates in the Merger shall bear a customary legend regarding applicable Securities Act restrictions and the provisions of this Section 5.11. -32-
SECTION 5.12. NYSE Listing. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Company Common Stock to continue to be listed on the NYSE through the Effective Time and to cause the shares of Company Common Stock to be issued in the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement to be approved for listing on the NYSE, subject to official notice of issuance, as promptly as practicable after the date hereof and in any event prior to the Effective Time. SECTION 5.13. Stockholder Litigation. The Company shall give FNF, and FNF shall give the Company, the opportunity to participate in the defense or settlement of any stockholder litigation against the Company or FNF, as applicable, and its directors relating to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; provided, however, that no such settlement shall be agreed to without the consent of the other party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. SECTION 5.14. Action Relating to Stock Option Plans. As soon as practicable following the date of this Agreement, the Boards of Directors of FNF and the Company (or, any authorized committees thereof) shall adopt such resolutions or take such actions, if any, as may be required to adjust the terms of all outstanding FNF Stock Options in accordance with Section 2.2, all FNF restricted stock in accordance with Section 2.1(d) and all options to purchase Company Common Stock in accordance with Section 5.2 and shall make such other changes to the FNF Stock Option Plans as it deems appropriate to give effect to the Merger and the terms hereof. SECTION 5.15. Section 16 Matters. Each of FNF and the Company and their respective boards of directors (and any subcommittees thereof) shall adopt such resolutions as are necessary for purposes of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act to specifically approve (i) the disposition in the Merger of shares of FNF Common Stock and "derivative securities" (as defined in Rule 16a-1(c) under the Exchange Act) relating thereto, and (ii) the acquisition in the Merger of Company Common Stock and derivative securities relating thereto, in each case by each officer or director of FNF or the Company who is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act with respect to FNF or the Company, as the case may be. SECTION 5.16. Related Party Agreements. At or prior to the Closing: (i) The Company and FNF shall, and the Company shall cause each Company Subsidiary that is party to any of the agreements listed on Section 5.16 of the Disclosure Schedule (the "Related Party Agreements") to, enter into the amendments or terminations to the Related Party Agreements described in Section 5.16 of the Disclosure Schedule, which amendments or terminations shall be effective at or prior to the Closing. (ii) The Company shall, and FNF shall cause FNT to, enter into a cross-indemnity agreement as of the time of the Spin-off in the form attached hereto as Exhibit D (the "Cross-Indemnity Agreement"). -33-
(iii) The Company and FNF shall, and FNF shall cause FNT to, enter into a tax disaffiliation agreement as of the time of the Spin-off in the form attached hereto as Exhibit E (the "Tax Disaffiliation Agreement"). SECTION 5.17. Company Common Stock Buy-Backs. If, after giving effect to actual or anticipated or projected exercises of outstanding options to purchase shares of Company Common Stock after the date hereof and prior to the Effective Time, the Merger Consideration would not constitute more than 50% of the shares of Company Common Stock outstanding immediately after the Effective Time, the Company shall, if and to the extent directed by FNF, repurchase such number of shares of Company Common Stock as shall be reasonably adequate to cause the Merger Consideration to constitute more than 50% of the shares of Company Common Stock outstanding immediately after the Effective Time; provided that the Company shall not be required to effect any such repurchase if such repurchase would constitute or result in a violation of applicable law, including Regulation M under the Exchange Act. SECTION 5.18. Taxation. Neither FNF nor the Company shall take or cause to be taken any action, whether before or after the Effective Time, that would be likely to disqualify the Merger as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code. SECTION 5.19. Takeover Statutes. If any "fair price," "moratorium," "control share acquisition" or other state takeover statute or similar statute or regulation is or may become applicable to the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, each of FNF and the Company and its respective board of directors shall grant such approvals and take such actions as are necessary so that such transactions may be consummated as promptly as practicable on the terms contemplated by this Agreement and otherwise act to eliminate or minimize the effects of such statute or regulation on such transactions. SECTION 5.20. Employee Benefits. The Company agrees to (i) provide coverage for FNF employees who become employees of the Company under its medical, dental and health plans as of the Effective Time, (ii) waive any preexisting conditions, waiting periods and actively at work requirements under such plans, and (iii) cause such plans to honor any expenses incurred by the employees and their beneficiaries under similar plans of FNF during the portion of the calendar year in which the Effective Time occurs for purposes of satisfying applicable deductible, co-insurance and maximum out-of-pocket expenses. The Company will cause any Company Benefit Plans (and any other employee benefit plans established by the Company after the date hereof) in which the employees of FNF are eligible to participate after the Effective Time to take into account for purposes of eligibility, vesting and benefit accrual thereunder (but, in respect of benefit accrual, only to the extent it would not result in a duplication of benefits for the same period of service), service with FNF and its Subsidiaries as if such service were with the Company, to the same extent such service was credited under a comparable plan of FNF prior to the Effective Time. With respect to all Benefit Plans that are sponsored by FNF and constitute employee benefit plans within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA, including the Fidelity National Financial Group 401(k) Profit Sharing Plan, FNF shall, to the extent any such plan is not terminated (and all assets distributed and all liabilities satisfied) prior to the Effective Time, cause the sponsorship of such plans to be transferred to FNT prior to the Effective Time, together with all insurance policies, bonds, and trust, services and other agreements relating to such plans; provided, however, that FNT and FIS shall be entitled to the -34-
rights and benefits under such insurance policies, bonds, trusts to the extent reasonably attributable to their respective businesses prior to the Effective Time, as mutually agreed by such companies. SECTION 5.21. Certegy Stock Incentive Plan Amendment. Prior to the Effective Time, the Company shall (i) amend and restate the Certegy Inc. Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated through the date thereof) to increase the total number of shares available under such plan by an additional 4,000,000 shares (the "Company Incentive Plan Amendment"), and (ii) submit such amended and restated plan to the Company's shareholders for approval at the Company Shareholders Meeting. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain any required consent or waiver of each holder of outstanding, unvested options issued under the Company Incentive Plan so that the transactions contemplated hereby shall not constitute a "change of control" within the meaning of the Company Incentive Plan with respect to such holder. ARTICLE VI CONDITIONS PRECEDENT SECTION 6.1. Conditions to Each Party's Obligation to Effect the Merger. The respective obligation of each party to effect the Merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver on or prior to the Closing Date of the following conditions: (a) Stockholder Approval. This Agreement shall have been adopted by the requisite vote of the stockholders of FNF in accordance with applicable law and the FNF Charter and FNF By-laws and the approval of the issuance of Company Common Stock in the Merger shall have been approved by the requisite vote of the shareholders of the Company in accordance with the rules of the NYSE. (b) Governmental and Regulatory Consents. All filings required to be made prior to the Effective Time with, and all consents, approvals, permits and authorizations required to be obtained prior to the Effective Time from, Governmental Entities, including those set forth in Sections 3.1(c) of the FNF Disclosure Schedule and 3.2(c) of the Company Disclosure Schedule, in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby by FNF and the Company shall have been made or obtained (as the case may be), and such consents, approvals, permits and authorizations shall be subject to no conditions other than conditions that would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. (c) HSR Act. Any waiting period (and any extension thereof) applicable to the Merger under the HSR Act shall have been terminated or shall have otherwise expired. (d) No Injunctions or Restraints. No temporary restraining order, preliminary or permanent injunction or other order issued by any Governmental Entity of competent jurisdiction or other legal restraint or prohibition preventing the consummation of the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated hereby shall be in effect and no -35-
Governmental Entity of competent jurisdiction shall have enacted, issued, promulgated, enforced or entered any law deemed applicable to the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated hereby individually or in the aggregate resulting in, or that is reasonably likely to result in, any of the foregoing; provided, however, that the party invoking this condition shall have used reasonable efforts to have any such order or injunction vacated. (e) Form S-4. The Form S-4 shall have become effective under the Securities Act and shall not be the subject of any stop order and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been initiated or threatened by the SEC. (f) NYSE Listing. The shares of Company Common Stock issuable to FNF stockholders pursuant to this Agreement shall have been authorized for listing on the NYSE upon official notice of issuance. (g) Third-Party Consents. All consents and waivers of third parties to the consummation of the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby shall have been obtained, other than those which, if not obtained, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. (h) Spin-Off. The Spin-off shall have occurred in accordance with the terms of the Spin-off Agreements. (i) Related Party Agreements. The amendments or terminations of the Related Party Agreements set forth in Section 5.16 of the Disclosure Schedule shall have been entered into by the parties thereto. SECTION 6.2. Conditions to Obligations of Company. The obligations of the Company to effect the Merger are further subject to the following conditions: (a) Representations and Warranties. The representations and warranties of FNF set forth in Section 3.1(p) shall be true and correct. The other representations and warranties of FNF set forth in this Agreement shall be true and correct as of the date of this Agreement (except to the extent such representations and warranties speak as of an earlier date) and as of the Closing Date as though made on and as of the Closing Date, subject to such exceptions as do not have and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Company Material Adverse Effect after giving effect to the Merger. The Company shall have received a certificate dated as of the Closing Date and signed on behalf of FNF by an executive officer of FNF to the effect set forth in this Section 6.2(a). (b) Performance of Obligations of FNF. FNF shall have performed in all material respects all obligations required to be performed by it under this Agreement at or prior to the Closing Date, and the Company shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of FNF by an executive officer of FNF to such effect. (c) Tax Matters. -36-
(i) The Company shall have received an opinion of its special tax advisor, Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, in substance and form satisfactory to the Company, dated the Closing Date, or FNF shall have received a private letter ruling, in substance and form satisfactory to the Company, to the effect that the Merger will be treated for federal income tax purposes as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code, and that each of FNF and the Company will be a party to the reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Code. In rendering any such opinion, such counsel shall be entitled to rely upon customary assumptions and certificates of officers of FNF and the Company delivered to such counsel in connection with such opinion substantially in the form of Exhibits F and G hereto. (ii) FNF shall have received (i) an opinion of its special tax advisor, Deloitte Tax LLP, in substance and form reasonably satisfactory to the Company, dated the Closing Date, to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Asset Contribution (as defined in the Securities Exchange Agreement) will qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code (taking into account the Spin-off), and the Spin-off will qualify as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 and related provisions of the Code (including Section 361(c)(1)) for both FNF and its stockholders, and (ii) from the IRS a private letter ruling, in substance and form reasonably satisfactory to the Company, that specifically includes rulings 1, 6, 15, 24 and 25 as requested in Section VI of the request letter from Deloitte Tax LLP to the IRS dated June 2, 2006, or rulings substantially to that effect, and such rulings shall be in full force and effect. (d) Other Agreements. FNT shall have executed and delivered the Cross-Indemnity Agreement and FNT and FNF shall have executed and delivered the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement. SECTION 6.3. Conditions to Obligation of FNF. The obligation of FNF to effect the Merger is further subject to the following conditions: (a) Representations and Warranties. The representations and warranties of the Company set forth in this Agreement shall be true and correct (without regard to any qualifications or references to Company Material Adverse Effect or "material" or any other materiality qualifications or references contained in any specific representation or warranty), in each case as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date as though made on and as of the Closing Date, except (i) to the extent any such representation and warranty speaks as of an earlier date, in which event such representation and warranty shall be true and correct as of such date, and (ii) where any failure of the representations or warranties in the aggregate to be true and correct would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, and FNF shall have received a certificate dated as of the Closing Date and signed on behalf of the Company by an executive officer of the Company to such effect. -37-
(b) Performance of Obligations of the Company. The Company shall have performed in all material respects all obligations required to be performed by it under this Agreement at or prior to the Closing Date, and FNF shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by an executive officer of the Company to such effect. (c) Tax Matters. FNF shall have received an opinion of its special tax advisor, Deloitte Tax LLP, in substance and form satisfactory to FNF, dated the Closing Date, or FNF shall have received a private letter ruling, in substance and form satisfactory to FNF, to the effect that the Merger will be treated for federal income tax purposes as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code, and that each of FNF and the Company will be a party to the reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Code. In rendering any such opinion, such tax advisor shall be entitled to rely upon customary assumptions and certificates of officers of FNF and the Company delivered to such counsel in connection with such opinion substantially in the form of Exhibits F and G hereto. (d) Other Agreements. The Company and FNT shall have executed and delivered the Cross-Indemnity Agreement and the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement. ARTICLE VII TERMINATION, AMENDMENT AND WAIVER SECTION 7.1. Termination. This Agreement may be terminated and the Merger may be abandoned at any time prior to the Effective Time, whether before or after approval of matters presented in connection with the Merger by the stockholders of the Company and FNF: (a) by mutual written consent of the Company and FNF, as authorized by action of the Company Special Committee and the FNF Special Committee, respectively; (b) by either the Company or FNF: (i) if, upon a vote at a duly held Company Shareholders Meeting or FNF Stockholders Meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof, any required approval of the stockholders of the Company or FNF, as the case may be, shall not have been obtained; (ii) if the Securities Exchange Agreement shall have been terminated; (iii) if the Merger shall not have been consummated on or before December 31, 2006 (the "Termination Date"); or (iv) if any Governmental Entity shall have issued an order, decree or ruling or taken any other action permanently enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting the Merger and such order, decree, ruling or other action shall have become final and nonappealable; -38-
(c) by the Company: (i) if the FNF Special Committee shall have withdrawn, qualified or modified in any material respect its approval of this Agreement or its recommendation to the FNF stockholders in a manner adverse to the Company; or (ii) if there has been a breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement made by FNF in this Agreement, or any such representation and warranty shall have become untrue or incorrect after the execution of this Agreement, such that Section 6.2(a) or 6.2(b) would not be satisfied and such breach or failure to be true or correct is not curable by the Termination Date; or (d) by FNF: (i) if the Company Special Committee shall have withdrawn, qualified or modified in any material respect its approval of this Agreement or its recommendation to the Company shareholders in a manner adverse to FNF; or (ii) if there has been a breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement made by the Company in this Agreement, or any such representation and warranty shall have become untrue or incorrect after the execution of this Agreement, such that Section 6.3(a) or 6.3(b) would not be satisfied and such breach or failure to be true or correct is not curable by the Termination Date. The right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 7.1(b)(iii) shall not be available to any party that has breached in any material respect its obligations under this Agreement in any manner that shall have proximately contributed to the occurrence of the failure of a condition to the consummation of the Merger. SECTION 7.2. Effect of Termination. In the event of termination of this Agreement and the abandonment of the Merger by either the Company or FNF as provided in Section 7.1, this Agreement shall forthwith become void and have no effect, without any liability or obligation on the part of FNF or the Company, other than as set forth in this Section 7.2 and Article VIII, which shall survive such termination. Nothing contained in this section shall relieve any party from any liability or damages resulting from any willful and material breach of any of its representations, warranties, covenants or agreements set forth in this Agreement. SECTION 7.3. Amendment. Subject to applicable law, at any time prior to the Effective Time, the parties hereto may amend, modify or supplement this Agreement; provided, however, that after approval of the Merger by the stockholders of a party, no amendment shall be made that by law requires the approval of such stockholders without the approval of such stockholders. This Agreement may not be amended except by an instrument in writing signed on behalf of each of the parties, as authorized by action of the board of directors of the respective parties following approval of the FNF Special Committee or Company Special Committee, as applicable. -39-
SECTION 7.4. Consent; Extension; Waiver. At any time prior to the Effective Time, each party may (a) extend the time for the performance of any of the obligations or other acts of the other party, (b) waive any inaccuracies in the representations and warranties of the other party contained in this Agreement or in any document delivered pursuant to this Agreement or (c) subject to Section 7.3, waive compliance with any of the agreements of the other party contained in this Agreement. The conditions to each of the parties' obligations to consummate the Merger are for the sole benefit of such party and may be waived by such party in whole or in part to the extent permitted by applicable law. Any agreement on the part of a party to any such extension or waiver shall be valid only if set forth in an instrument in writing signed on behalf of such party. The failure of any party to this Agreement to assert any of its rights under this Agreement or otherwise shall not constitute a waiver of such rights. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, any right of FNF or the Company to waive conditions or extend time periods under this Agreement shall be valid only if authorized in writing by the FNF Special Committee or the Company Special Committee, as applicable. ARTICLE VIII GENERAL PROVISIONS SECTION 8.1. Nonsurvival of Representations and Warranties. None of the representations and warranties in this Agreement or in any instrument delivered pursuant to this Agreement shall survive the Effective Time. This Section 8.1 shall not limit any covenant or agreement of the parties which by its terms contemplates performance after the Effective Time. SECTION 8.2. Fees, Expenses and Transfer Taxes. Whether or not the Merger shall be consummated, each party hereto shall pay its own fees and expenses incident to preparing for, entering into and carrying out this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, except that expenses incurred in connection with the filing fee for the Form S-4 and printing and mailing the Proxy Statement and the Form S-4 shall be shared equally by the Company and FNF and satisfied prior to the Effective Time. All transfer, documentary, sales, use, stamp, registration and other such taxes and fees (including penalties and interest) incurred in connection with the Merger shall be paid by the Company when due. SECTION 8.3. Definitions. For purposes of this Agreement: (i) an "affiliate" of any person means another person that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such first person; (ii) "Excluded FNF Liabilities" means (i) all Liabilities of FNF to the extent the Company or any Company Subsidiary has, as of or prior to the Closing, agreed in writing to be responsible therefor, (ii) all Liabilities to the extent arising out of or related to the ownership or operation of the assets or properties, and the operations or conduct of the business, of the Company or any Company Subsidiary, to the extent the Company or any Company Subsidiary has, as of or prior to the Closing, agreed to be responsible therefor and (iii) all guaranties or other similar contractual Liabilities of FNF in respect of a primary liability or -40-
obligation of the Company or any Company Subsidiary. For the avoidance of doubt, Excluded FNF Liabilities shall not include any Liabilities of FNF, whether due or to become due, for any out-of-pocket expenses (including all fees and disbursements of financial advisors, legal counsel and other advisors and consultants to FNF and the special committee of the board of directors of FNF) incurred in connection with the Asset Contribution (as defined in the Securities Exchange Agreement), the Spin-off, the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement. (iii) "Liabilities" means any direct or indirect liability, indebtedness, claim, loss, damage, deficiency, obligation, penalty, responsibility, cost or expense, fixed or unfixed, choate or inchoate, liquidated or unliquidated, secured or unsecured, accrued, absolute, known or unknown, contingent or otherwise. (iv) "person" means an individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity; (v) a "subsidiary" of any person means another person 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of capital stock or other voting interests of which, or 50% of more of the equity securities of which, is owned directly or indirectly by such first person; (vi) the "transactions contemplated by this Agreement" and "transactions contemplated hereby" shall include the Merger but not the Spin-off and the execution, delivery and performance by the parties thereto of the Spin-off Agreements; and (vii) the following terms have the meaning set forth in the Section set forth below: -41-
Company Common Stock................................................. 2.1(b) Company Commonly Controlled Entity................................... 3.2(g) Company Disclosure Schedule.......................................... 3.2(b) Company Incentive Plan Amendment..................................... 5.21 Company Material Adverse Effect...................................... 3.2(a) Company SEC Documents................................................ 3.2(d) Company Special Committee............................................ Recitals Company Stock Plans.................................................. 3.2(b) Company Shareholder Approval......................................... 3.2(c) Company Shareholders Meeting......................................... 5.3 Company Subsidiary................................................... 3.2(a) Conversion Number.................................................... 2.1(b) Cross-Indemnity Agreement............................................ 5.16 Delaware Certificate of Merger....................................... 1.3 Delaware Secretary of State.......................................... 1.3 DGCL................................................................. Recitals Effective Time....................................................... 1.3 ERISA................................................................ 3.1(g) Excess Shares........................................................ 2.3(f) Exchange Act......................................................... 3.1(c) Exchange Agent....................................................... 2.3(a) Exchange Fund........................................................ 2.3(a) Executive Officers................................................... 3.1(e) Filed Company SEC Documents.......................................... 3.2(e) Filed FNF SEC Documents.............................................. 3.1(e) FNF.................................................................. Preamble FNF Acquisition Proposal............................................. 5.7(a) FNF By-laws.......................................................... 3.1(a) FNF Charter.......................................................... 3.1(a) FNF Common Stock..................................................... Recitals FNF Disclosure Schedule.............................................. 2.2(a) FNF Material Adverse Effect.......................................... 3.1(a) FNF Restricted Share................................................. 2.1(d) FNF SEC Documents.................................................... 3.1(d) FNF Special Committee................................................ Recitals FNF Stockholders Meeting............................................. 5.3 FNF Stock Option..................................................... 2.2(a) FNF Stock Option Plans............................................... 2.2(a) FNT.................................................................. Recitals Form S-4............................................................. 3.1(q) GBCC................................................................. Recitals Georgia Certificate of Merger........................................ 1.3 Georgia Secretary of State........................................... 1.3 IRS.................................................................. 3.1(h) Proxy Statement...................................................... 3.1(q) Merger............................................................... Recitals
-42-
Merger Consideration................................................. 2.1(b) NYSE................................................................. 2.3(f) Option Exchange Number............................................... 2.2(a) Pension Plan......................................................... 3.1(g) Permits.............................................................. 3.1(k) Related Party Agreements............................................. 5.17 Securities Act....................................................... 3.1(d) Securities Exchange Agreement........................................ Recitals Spin-off............................................................. Recitals Spin-off Agreements.................................................. Recitals Stock Consideration.................................................. 2.1(b) Surviving Company.................................................... 1.1 Tax Disaffiliation Agreement......................................... 5.16 Termination Date..................................................... 7.1(b) Welfare Plan......................................................... 3.1(g)
-43-
SECTION 8.4. Notices. All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed given if delivered personally or sent by overnight courier (providing proof of delivery) or by facsimile to the parties at the following addresses or facsimile number (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified by like notice): (i) if to the Company, to Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. 601 Riverside Avenue Jacksonville, FL 32204 Fax: (904) 357-1005 Attention: General Counsel and, if prior to Closing, with a copy to: Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP 100 Federal Street Boston, MA 02110 Fax: (617) 772-8333 Attention: James Westra Marilyn French (ii) if to FNF, to Fidelity National Financial, Inc. 601 Riverside Avenue Jacksonville, FL 32204 Fax: (904) 357-1005 Attention: General Counsel and, if prior to Closing, with a copy to: LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae LLP 125 West 55th Street New York, NY 10019 Fax: (212) 424-8500 Attention: Robert S. Rachofsky Gary D. Boss and, if prior to Closing, with a copy to: Sullivan & Cromwell LLP 125 Broad Street New York, NY 10004 Fax: (212) 558-3588 Attention: Neil T. Anderson John J. O'Brien -44-
Any notice, request, instruction or other document given as provided above shall be deemed given to the receiving party upon actual receipt, if delivered personally; on the next business day after deposit with an overnight courier, if sent by an overnight courier; or upon confirmation of successful transmission if sent by facsimile (provided that if given by facsimile such notice, request, instruction or other document shall be followed up within one business day by dispatch pursuant to one of the other methods described herein). SECTION 8.5. Interpretation. When a reference is made in this Agreement to a Section, Exhibit or Schedule, such reference shall be to a Section of, or an Exhibit or Schedule to, this Agreement unless otherwise indicated. Any fact or item disclosed on any section of the FNF Disclosure Schedule or the Company Disclosure Schedule shall be deemed disclosed on all other sections of the Disclosure Schedule to which such fact or item may apply. Disclosure of any item in the FNF Disclosure Schedule or the Company Disclosure Schedule shall not be deemed an admission that such item represents a material item, fact, exception of fact, event or circumstance or that occurrence or non-occurrence of any change or effect related to such item would result in an FNF Material Adverse Effect or Company Material Adverse Effect, as applicable. The table of contents and headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the words "include", "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation". SECTION 8.6. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other parties. SECTION 8.7. Entire Agreement; Third-Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement (including the FNF Disclosure Schedule and the Company Disclosure Schedule) and the other agreements referred to herein constitute the entire agreement, and supersede all prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, among the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement. This Agreement is not intended to confer upon any person other than the parties hereto any rights or remedies. The representations and warranties in this Agreement are the product of negotiations among the parties hereto and are for the sole benefit of the parties hereto. Any inaccuracies in such representations and warranties are subject to waiver by the parties hereto in accordance with this Agreement without notice or liability to any other person. In some instances, the representations and warranties in this Agreement may represent an allocation among the parties hereto of risks associated with particular matters regardless of the knowledge of any of the parties hereto. Consequently, persons other than the parties hereto may not rely upon the representations and warranties in this Agreement as characterizations of actual facts or circumstances as of the date of this Agreement or as of any other date. SECTION 8.8. Assignment. Neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations under this Agreement shall be assigned, in whole or in part, by operation -45-
of law or otherwise (other than by operation of law in a merger) by any of the parties without the prior written consent of the other party, and any such assignment that is not consented to shall be null and void. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement will be binding upon, inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by, the parties and their respective successors and assigns. SECTION 8.9. Governing Law. This Agreement deemed to be made and in all respects shall be governed by, and interpreted and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York without regard to the conflict of law principles thereof (other than those provisions set forth herein that are required to be governed by the DGCL or the GBCC). SECTION 8.10. Enforcement; Venue; Waiver of Jury Trial. (a) The parties agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with their specific terms or were otherwise breached. It is accordingly agreed that the parties shall be entitled to seek an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions of this Agreement in any court of the United States or any state court, which in either case is located in the City of Jacksonville (any such federal or state court, a "Jacksonville Court"), in addition to any other remedy to which they are entitled at law or in equity. In addition, each of the parties hereto (a) consents to submit itself to the personal jurisdiction of any Jacksonville Court in the event any dispute arises out of this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (b) agrees that it will not attempt to deny or defeat such personal jurisdiction or venue by motion or other request for leave from any such Jacksonville Court and (c) agrees that it will not bring any action relating to this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement in any court other than a Jacksonville Court. (b) EACH PARTY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT ANY CONTROVERSY WHICH MAY ARISE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT IS LIKELY TO INVOLVE COMPLICATED AND DIFFICULT ISSUES, AND THEREFORE EACH SUCH PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT SUCH PARTY MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT. EACH PARTY CERTIFIES AND ACKNOWLEDGES THAT (i) NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER, (ii) EACH PARTY UNDERSTANDS AND HAS CONSIDERED THE IMPLICATIONS OF THIS WAIVER, (iii) EACH PARTY MAKES THIS WAIVER VOLUNTARILY, AND (iv) EACH PARTY HAS BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION 8.10. SECTION 8.11. Severability. Whenever possible, each provision or portion of any provision of this Agreement will be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law but if any provision or portion of any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect under any applicable law or rule in any -46-
jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability will not affect any other provision or portion of any provision in such jurisdiction, and this Agreement will be reformed, construed and enforced in such jurisdiction as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision or portion of any provision had never been contained herein. -47-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and FNF have caused this Agreement to be signed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, all as of the date first written above. FIDELITY NATIONAL INFORMATION SERVICES, INC. ---------------------------------------- Name: ---------------------------------- Title: --------------------------------- FIDELITY NATIONAL FINANCIAL, INC. ---------------------------------------- Name: ---------------------------------- Title: --------------------------------- -48-

EXHIBIT 10.2 TAX DISAFFILIATION AGREEMENT THIS TAX DISAFFILIATION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of _______, is by and among Fidelity National Financial, Inc. ("FNF"), a Delaware corporation, Fidelity National Title Group, Inc. ("FNT"), a Delaware corporation, and Fidelity National Information Services Inc. ("FIS"), a Georgia corporation. WHEREAS, as set forth in the Securities Exchange and Distribution Agreement dated as of June 25, 2006 by and between FNF and FNT (the "Distribution Agreement"), FNF will transfer to FNT certain assets and liabilities and then distribute all of the shares of FNT Class A Common Stock it holds on the date specified in the Distribution Agreement (the "Distribution Date") in a transaction (the "Distribution") designed to qualify as a tax-free reorganization and distribution pursuant to sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"); WHEREAS, FNF is, and will be until the Distribution is effective, the common parent of the affiliated group of corporations within the meaning of section 1504(a) of the Code that includes FNT and its eligible subsidiary corporations; WHEREAS, immediately after the Distribution, FNT and FNF will no longer be members of the same affiliated group; WHEREAS, after the Distribution, FNF will merge with and into FIS in a transaction designed to qualify under section 368(a)(1)(A) (the "Merger") and FNF will cease its separate corporate existence; and WHEREAS, in connection with the Distribution and the Merger the parties hereto desire to enter into this Agreement, setting forth their agreement with respect to certain Tax matters from and after the Distribution Date. NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and promises contained herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows: 1.1 In General. As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized terms shall have the following meanings: "Acquisition" means any acquisition of FNT stock or FIS stock, as applicable (including without limitation a stock redemption) or issuance of FNT stock or FIS stock, as applicable, excluding (a) the issuance of stock by FIS in connection with the acquisition of the assets of FNF in the Merger; (b) the distribution of FNT stock in the Distribution; (c) any acquisition of stock that qualifies under section 1.355-7(d)(7) of the Treasury Regulations or any successor thereto, section 1.355-7(d)(8) of the Treasury Regulations or any successor thereto or section 1.355-7(d)(9) of the Treasury Regulations or any successor thereto; (d) any acquisition of FIS stock held by an existing shareholder
of FIS prior to the effective time of the Merger, including, without limitation, any sale of such FIS stock by such a shareholder pursuant to the exercise of registration rights by such shareholder; (e) any vesting of FIS restricted stock that is granted or issued in connection with the Distribution or the Merger; and (f) any acquisition of FIS stock pursuant to the exercise of any option to acquire FIS stock that is granted in connection with the Distribution or the Merger. "Adverse Consequences" means damages, penalties, fines, costs, expenses (including professional fees and expenses), amounts paid in settlement, liabilities, obligations, liens, and losses, including any such amounts arising out of or related to claims asserted against FNF, FIS or FNT by any shareholder participating in the Distribution, or the Service, or any other Tax Authority that ultimately is successful in seeking recourse against FNF, FIS or FNT; provided that Adverse Consequences shall not include any indirect, special, consequential, or punitive damages, except for indirect, special, consequential or punitive damages paid or awarded with respect to a Third-Party Claim. "After-Tax Basis" means that, for purposes of determining the amount of the Indemnified Liability, the amount of any Taxes, Tax Losses, or Adverse Consequences shall be determined net of any Tax Benefit derived by the Indemnitee as the result of sustaining such Tax, Tax Loss, and Adverse Consequences and increased by the amount of any Tax Detriment incurred by the Indemnitee as the result of its receipt, or right to receive, such indemnification payment, so that the Indemnitee is put in the same net after-Tax economic position as if it had not incurred such Tax, Tax Loss, or Adverse Consequences. "Affiliated Company" means any and every corporation that has a common parent that holds directly or indirectly 80% or more of the voting power and value of such corporation within the meaning of section 1504(a) of the Code. "Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble hereto. "Arbitrator" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.5(c) of this Agreement. "Audit" includes any audit, assessment of Taxes or other examination by any Tax Authority, proceeding, or appeal of such a proceeding relating to Taxes, whether administrative or judicial, including proceedings relating to competent authority determinations. "Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York are required or authorized by law to close. "Code" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals to this Agreement. "Combined Group" means a group of one or more companies that files a Combined Return. 2
"Combined Return" means any Tax Return with respect to Combined State/Local Tax filed on a consolidated, combined, unitary or other similar basis wherein any member of the FIS Group joins in the filing of such Tax Return (for any Taxable Period) with any member of the FNF Legacy Group or the FNT Group. "Combined State/Local Tax" means the state or local Tax liability determined on a consolidated, combined or unitary basis. "Combined Tax Allocation Statement" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(b). "Consolidated Federal Tax" means the Federal Income Tax liability of a Consolidated Group determined on a consolidated basis. "Consolidated Group" means a group of one or more Affiliated Companies that files a Consolidated Return. "Consolidated Return" means any Tax Return with respect to Federal Income Taxes filed on a consolidated basis pursuant to Section 1501 of the Code. "Consolidated Tax Allocation Statement" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(b). "Contemplated Action" means any action contemplated by the Distribution Agreement or any other agreement entered into in connection with the Distribution or the Merger, any vesting of FIS restricted stock that is granted or issued in connection with the Distribution or the Merger, including FIS restricted stock issued in respect of FNF restricted stock, and any acquisition of FIS stock pursuant to the exercise of any option to acquire FIS stock that is granted in connection with the Distribution or the Merger, including FNF options assumed by FIS pursuant to the Merger. "Contest" means any Audit or claim for refund involving any Taxes with respect to a Pre-Distribution Period. "Control" means stock representing a 50% or greater interest within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code, taking into account the principles of section 355(e)(3)(B). "Controlling Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.2(d) of this Agreement. "Cross-Indemnity Agreement" means the cross indemnification agreement signed and executed by FNT and FIS pursuant to Section 2.3(f) of the Distribution Agreement. "Dispute" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.5(a) of this Agreement. "Distribution" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals to this Agreement. 3
"Distribution Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals to this Agreement. "Distribution Date" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals to this Agreement. "Effective Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.1 of this Agreement. "Federal Income Tax" means any Tax imposed under Subtitle A of the Code (including the Taxes imposed by Section 11, 55, and 1201(a) of the Code), and any interest, addition to Tax, or penalties applicable or related thereto, and any other income-based U.S. federal tax which is hereinafter imposed upon corporations. "Filing Group" means either (a) the FNT Group, if the Filing Party is either FNF or a member of the FNT Group, or (b) the FIS Group, if the Filing Party is a member of the FIS Group. "Filing Party" means, (a) with respect to any Consolidated Return or Combined Return, the party that is required to file such a Tax Return under Section 2.2 of this Agreement, and (b) with respect to any Separate Return, the party that is required to file such Tax Return under applicable law. "Final Determination" means with respect to any issue (a) a decision, judgment, decree or other order by the United States Tax Court or any other court of competent jurisdiction that has become final and unappealable, (b) a closing agreement under section 7121 of the Code or a comparable provision of any state, local, or foreign Tax law that is binding against the Service or any other Taxing Authority, (c) any other final settlement with the Service or other Taxing Authority, or (d) the expiration of an applicable statute of limitations. "FIS" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement. "FIS Acquisition Process" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.2(b) of this Agreement. "FIS Combined Returns" means any Combined Return with respect to which FIS or any member of the FIS Group is the common parent of the Combined Group. "FIS Consolidated Returns" means any Consolidated Return with respect to which FIS is the common parent of the Consolidated Group, except for any Consolidated Return in which FNF will be the common parent of the Consolidated Group until the Merger. "FIS Group" means FIS and any Affiliated Company of which FIS is the common parent corporation, and any corporation which may be, or may become, a member of such group from time to time, excluding FNF. 4
"FNF" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement. "FNF Consolidated Return" means any Consolidated Return with respect to which FNF is the common parent of the Consolidated Group, including any Consolidated Return for which FNF will be the common parent until the Merger and for which FIS will be the common parent after the Merger. "FNF Legacy Group" includes FNF and any other member of the FNF Group prior to the Distribution, other than any member of the FIS Group or any member of the FNT Group prior to the Distribution. "FNF Legacy Group Combined Return" means any Combined Return with respect to which a member of the FNF Legacy Group is the common parent of the Combined Group. "FNT" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble to this Agreement. "FNT Acquisition Process" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.2(c) of this Agreement. "FNT Combined Return" means any Combined Return with respect to which FNT or any member of the FNT Group is the common parent of the Combined Group. "FNT Consolidated Return" means any Consolidated Return with respect to which FNT is the common parent of the Consolidated Group. "FNT Group" means FNT and any Affiliated Company of which FNT is the common parent corporation and any corporation which may be, or may become, a member of such group from time to time. "Hypothetical Tax" has the meaning set forth in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1. "Indemnified Liability" means any liability which is imposed upon or incurred by an Indemnitee against which such Indemnitee is indemnified and held harmless under this Agreement. "Indemnifying Party" means any person that is required to indemnify and hold harmless any Indemnitee under this Agreement. "Indemnitee" means person that incurs a liability that is subject to indemnification under this Agreement. "Merger" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals to this Agreement. "Non-Controlling Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.2(d)(i) of this Agreement. 5
"Non-Filing Group" means either the FIS Group, if the Filing Party is a member of the FNT Group, or the FNT Group if the Filing Party is a member of the FIS Group. "Non-Filing Party" means either FIS, if the Filing Party is a member of the FNT Group, or FNT, if the Filing Party is a member of the FIS Group. "NTI-NY" means National Title Insurance of New York, Inc., a New York insurance company. "Opinion Documents" means the Tax Opinion and representation letters referred to therein. "Other Tax Group" means either the FNT Group if the FIS Group is the Tax Group or the FIS Group if the FNT Group is the Tax Group. "Post-Distribution Period" means any Taxable Period or portion thereof beginning after the Distribution Date. "Pre-Distribution Period" means any (a) Taxable Period ending on or prior to the Distribution Date or (b) with respect to any Taxable Period beginning prior to the Distribution Date and ending after the Distribution Date, the portion of such Taxable Period that ends on the Distribution Date. "Private Letter Ruling" means the private letter ruling issued by the Service to FNF that addresses, inter alia, the tax consequences of the Distribution and Merger. "Referee" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.5(c) of the Agreement. "Ruling Documents" means the Private Letter Ruling, plus all of the materials submitted to the Service in connection with obtaining such ruling. "Regulated Tax Sharing Agreement" means any written Tax Sharing Agreement between an insurance company and FNF, FNT, or FIS filed with a state insurance commissioner, for the period that Tax Sharing Agreement remains in effect. "Section 355(e) Liability" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.2(f) of this Agreement. "Section 355 Tax Treatment" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1(a)(i) of this Agreement. "Separate Return" means any Tax Return, filed by any entity, that is not part of a Consolidated Return or a Combined Return. 6
"Separate Tax" means any Tax incurred by an entity that is not a Federal Income Tax required to be shown on a Consolidated Return and is not a Combined State/Local Tax required to be shown on a Combined Return. "Service" means the Internal Revenue Service. "Steering Committee" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.5(a) of this Agreement. "Tax" means any net income, gross income, gross receipts, alternative or add-on minimum, sales, use, ad valorem, franchise, profits, license, withholding, payroll, employment, excise, transfer, recording, severance, stamp, occupation, premium, property, environmental, estimated, custom duty, or other tax, governmental fee or other like assessment or charge of any kind whatsoever, together with any interest and any penalty, addition to Tax or additional amount imposed by a Tax Authority. "Tax Authority" means any governmental authority or any subdivision, agency, commission or authority thereof or any quasi-governmental or private body having jurisdiction over the assessment, determination, collection, or imposition of any Tax (including the Service). "Tax Benefit" means a decrease in the Tax liability of a taxpayer (or of the consolidated, combined, or unitary group of which it is a member) for any Taxable Period. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, a Tax Benefit shall be deemed to have been realized or received from a Tax Item in a Taxable Period only if and to the extent that the Tax liability of the taxpayer (or of the consolidated, combined, or unitary group of which it is a member) for such period, after taking into account the effect of the Tax Item on the Tax liability of such taxpayer (or of the consolidated, combined, or unitary group of which it is a member) in the current period and all prior periods, is less than it would have been if such Tax liability were determined on a consistent basis without regard to such Tax Item, taking into account the principles of Schedule I. "Tax Detriment" means an increase in the Tax liability of a taxpayer (or of the consolidated, combined, or unitary group of which it is a member) for any Taxable Period. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, a Tax Detriment shall be deemed to have been realized or received from a Tax Item in a Taxable Period only if and to the extent that the Tax liability of the taxpayer (or of the consolidated, combined, or unitary group of which it is a member) for such period, after taking into account the effect of the Tax Item on the Tax liability of such taxpayer (or of the consolidated, combined, or unitary group of which it is a member) in the current period and all prior periods, is more than it would have been if such Tax liability were determined on a consistent basis without regard to such Tax Item, taking into account the principles of Schedule I. "Tax Group" means either the FNT Group or the FIS Group, as the context dictates. 7
"Tax Group Parent" means either FNT, if the FNT Group is the Tax Group, or FIS, if the FIS Group is the Tax Group. "Tax Item" means any item of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit, or other attribute that may have the effect of increasing or decreasing any Tax. "Tax Losses" means all fees and costs (including reasonable outside professional fees and costs incurred in connection with a contest) that directly result from, or relate to, Taxes. "Tax Opinion" means the tax opinion that Deloitte Tax LLP will deliver pursuant to Section 6.3(e) of the Distribution Agreement. "Tax Return" means any return, report, certificate, form or similar statement or document (including any related or supporting information or schedule attached thereto and any information return, amended Tax return, claim for refund or declaration of estimated Tax) supplied to, or filed with, a Tax Authority in connection with the determination, assessment, or collection of any Tax or the administration of any laws, regulations, or administrative requirements relating to any Tax, including where permitted or required any Tax return filed on a consolidated, combined, unitary or other similar basis. "Tax Settlement" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.4(b) of this Agreement. "Tax Sharing Agreement" means any tax sharing agreements, arrangements, policies or guidelines, formal or informal, express or implied, which may exist between the members of an affiliated group. "Taxable Period" means, with respect to any Tax, the period for which the Tax is reported as provided under the Code or any other applicable Tax laws. "Third-Party Claim" means the assertion of any claim or the commencement of any action by a person (other than a Tax Authority) who is not a member of (i) the FNT Group; (ii) the FIS Group; or (iii) the FNF Legacy Group, in each case only if Adverse Consequences resulting from such claim or action would be subject to indemnification under this Agreement. "Treasury Regulations" means the final and temporary Tax regulations promulgated under the Code, as such regulations may be amended from time to time (including corresponding provisions of successor regulations). 8
SECTION 2. TAX RETURNS, TAX SHARING PAYMENTS AND GENERAL TAX ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS. 2.1 Agent for the FNF Group. Prior to the Merger, to the extent reasonably possible, (i) FNF will designate FNT as the agent for all matters subject to agency with respect to the FNF Consolidated Return for the 2006 and 2005 Taxable Periods in accordance with Section 1.1502-77(d) of the Treasury Regulations and will obtain IRS approval for such designation, (ii) FNF, in its sole discretion, will designate another appropriate member of the FNT Group as such agent for all other Taxable Periods for which the statute of limitations on assessment under Section 6501 of the Code has not expired and will obtain IRS approval for such designation, and (iii) FNF will make conforming designations with respect to all FNF Legacy Group Combined Returns and will obtain approval from the appropriate Tax Authority. 2.2 Filing of Returns. (a) FNT shall accurately prepare (or cause to be prepared) in a manner consistent with past practice and shall timely file (or cause to be timely filed) all (i) FNF Consolidated Returns, except as provided in Section 2.2(f) of this Agreement, (ii) FNT Consolidated Returns, (iii) FNT Combined Returns, (iv) FNF Legacy Group Combined Returns that FNT or any other member of the FNT Group is otherwise required to file under applicable state law, and (v) any Tax Return, other than one described in this Section 2.2(a)(i) through (iv), that includes FNF and at least one other member of the FNF Legacy Group or the FNT Group but no member of the FIS Group. (b) FIS shall accurately prepare (or cause to be prepared) in a manner consistent with past practice and timely file (or cause to be timely filed) (i) all FIS Consolidated Returns; (ii) all FIS Combined Returns; and (iii) all FNF Legacy Group Combined Returns that FIS or any member of the FIS Group is required to file under applicable state law. (c) FIS shall accurately prepare (or cause to be prepared) in a manner consistent with past practice and shall timely file (or cause to be filed) all Separate Returns that are required to be filed by any FIS Group company, including all NTI-NY Tax Returns. FNT shall accurately prepare (or cause to be prepared) in a manner consistent with past practice and shall timely file (or cause to be timely filed) all Separate Returns that are required to be filed by any FNT Group company and all Separate Returns that are required to be filed by any FNF Legacy Group company, other than NTI-NY Tax Returns. (d) At least 45 days before the due date (including extensions) of any Filing Party Consolidated Return or any Filing Party Combined Return that includes any Non-Filing Group company and from time to time as reasonably requested thereafter, the Non-Filing Party shall provide to the Filing Party all information relating to the Non-Filing Group necessary to prepare the Tax Returns described in this 9
Section 2.2. Such information will be prepared in a manner consistent with past practices at the expense of the Non-Filing Party. At least 2 weeks prior to filing, such Filing Party Consolidated Return or Filing Party Combined Return shall be provided to the Non-Filing Party for review and approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. If the Non-Filing Party proposes an adjustment to any Non-Filing Party item on any Filing Party Consolidated Return or Filing Party Combined Return, and the Filing Party declines to accept such proposal, then the parties shall resolve their disagreement in accordance with Section 8.5 of this Agreement; provided, however, that if such dispute is not settled prior to the filing date of such return, then the return may be filed without taking the Non-Filing Party's proposal into account but the amount payable pursuant to this Agreement pending the determination under Section 8.5 will be determined as if such proposal was accepted; provided further, that if it is ultimately concluded that the Filing Party was reasonable in rejecting such proposal, the Non-Filing Party shall promptly pay with interest, as provided in Section 4.3, all amounts not yet paid that would have been required to be paid had the amounts required to be paid been calculated without taking such proposal into account. (e) Any disagreements with regard to any matters covered by this Section 2.2 shall be resolved in accordance with Section 8.5 of this Agreement. (f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, in the event that the Merger constitutes a reverse acquisition as defined in section 1.1502-75(d)(3) of the Treasury Regulations, FIS shall accurately prepare (or cause to be prepared) in a manner consistent with past practice and shall timely file (or cause to be filed) the FNF Consolidated Return for the Taxable Period in which the Merger occurs. 2.3 Amended Returns. (a) The Filing Party shall not file (or cause to be filed), without the prior written consent of the Non-Filing Party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), any amended Consolidated Return or amended Combined Return which includes any member of the Non-Filing Group if such return would result in a Tax Detriment to any member of the Non-Filing Group for any Taxable Period. The consent of the Non-Filing Party shall not be required if the Filing Party reimburses the Non-Filing Party for any such Tax Detriment. In the event of disagreement over whether consent is required or is being unreasonably withheld, the parties shall resolve their disagreement in accordance with Section 8.5 of this Agreement. (b) The Filing Party, upon receipt of a written request by the Non-Filing Party, shall file an amended Consolidated Return or amended Combined Return which includes any member of the Non-Filing Group if such return would result in a Tax Benefit to any member of the Non-Filing Group for any Taxable Period; provided, however, that if such amended Consolidated Return or such amended Combined Return results in a Tax Detriment to any member of the Filing Group, 10
it shall be filed only upon the written consent of the Filing Party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld) unless the Non-Filing Party agrees to reimburse the Filing Group for any such Tax Detriment. In the event of disagreement over whether consent is required or is being unreasonably withheld, the parties shall resolve their disagreement in accordance with Section 8.5 of this Agreement. 2.4 Payment of Taxes. (a) FIS shall pay (or cause to be paid) to the appropriate Tax Authority all Taxes, if any, for which it is required to file Consolidated Returns or Combined Returns pursuant to Sections 2.2(b), 2.2 (c), and 2.2(f) of this Agreement. FNT shall pay (or cause to be paid) to the appropriate Tax Authority all Taxes, if any, for which it is required to file Consolidated Returns or Combined Returns pursuant to Section 2.2(a) and 2.2(c) of this Agreement. (b) No later than 20 Business Days prior to the due date (including extensions) of any Consolidated Return or Combined Return, the Filing Party shall prepare or cause to be prepared, taking into account Schedule I, a statement (the "Consolidated Tax Allocation Statement" or the "Combined Tax Allocation Statement," as the case may be) setting forth the amount of the unpaid or overpaid portion of the Non-Filing Group's allocable share of the total Consolidated Federal Tax liability or Combined State/Local Tax liability, if any, taking into account any applicable Tax payments (including estimated tax payments) previously made by the Non-Filing Party or any other member of the Non-Filing Group to any member of the Filing Group or to any Tax Authority, and shall provide such statement, or cause such statement to be provided, to the Non-Filing Party. No later than the due date (including any extensions), of any Consolidated Return or Combined Return including both FIS Group companies and FNT Group companies, the Filing Party shall pay to the Non-Filing Party any overpayment or the Non-Filing Party shall pay to the Filing Party any underpayment shown on the Consolidated Tax Allocation Statement or the Combined Tax Allocation Statement, as the case may be. In the event of disagreement over the Non-Filing Group's allocable share of the total Tax liability shown on the Consolidated Tax Allocation Statement or Combined Tax Allocation Statement, as the case may be, the parties shall resolve their disagreement in accordance with Section 8.5 of this Agreement. 2.5 Treatment of Prior Tax Sharing Agreements. (a) Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, any Tax Sharing Agreements that may exist between any FNF Group company, on the one hand, and any FNT Group company, on the other hand, shall terminate, and any obligations under any such agreements or arrangements shall be cancelled, as of the Effective Date, without any payment by any party thereto. 11
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, the Regulated Tax Sharing Agreements of all insurance companies shall remain in effect, and shall govern all allocations of Taxes among the companies that are parties to those Agreements (in lieu of Section 2.4(b) of this Agreement). FNT will take all steps, as quickly as is reasonably possible, to amend all existing Regulated Tax Sharing Agreements to substitute FNT for FNF as a party to the agreements, to make all required regulatory filings, and to obtain all necessary approvals. 2.6 Consistent with Private Letter Ruling and Tax Opinion. All Tax Returns filed pursuant to this Section 2 after the Distribution Date shall be prepared on a basis consistent with the rulings obtained from the Service in the Private Letter Ruling and the Tax Opinion (in the absence of a relevant change in law or circumstances). SECTION 3. ALLOCATION OF CERTAIN TAX ITEMS. 3.1 Carryforwards and Carrybacks. (a) The Filing Party shall notify the Non-Filing Party of any consolidated or combined carryover item which may be partially or totally attributed to and carried over by any member of the Non-Filing Group and will notify the Non-Filing Party of subsequent adjustments which may affect such carryover item. (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Non-Filing Party shall not be required to make any election under Section 172(b)(3) of the Code, or any similar provision of any state or local Tax Law, to relinquish any right to carryback net operating losses. Upon a request by the Non-Filing Party, the Filing Party shall be required to include on an amended FNF Consolidated Return or Combined Return that includes any member of the Non-Filing Group any net operating losses of any such member of the Non-Filing Group arising in a Post-Distribution Period to the extent allowed under the Tax Law; and the Non-Filing Party shall receive any payment with respect to such carryforward or carryback; provided, however, that if the Filing Party incurs a Tax Detriment related to the inclusion of such net operating losses on the Consolidated Return or Combined Return, the Non-Filing Party shall indemnify the Filing Party for the amount of such Tax Detriment. 3.2 Refunds. Any refund of Taxes resulting from an adjustment made to a Tax Return that includes one or more FIS Group companies on the one hand, and FNT Group companies on the other, shall be allocated in a manner such that a party responsible for indemnification of a tax liability for a particular Taxable Period pursuant to either Section 4 or Section 5 will be entitled to any refunds with respect to such Tax for such Taxable Period, except as provided in Section 3.1. 12
SECTION 4. INDEMNIFICATION PROVISIONS 4.1 General Indemnification. (a) After the Distribution Date, FNT shall indemnify and hold harmless, on an After-Tax Basis, FIS and each other member of the FIS Group against any and all (i) Taxes with respect to any FNF Consolidated Return for any Pre-Distribution Period; (ii) Taxes with respect to any FIS Combined Return or any FNF Legacy Group Combined Return to the extent that any FNF Legacy Group company or any member of the FNT Group caused an increase in the Tax liability on the Tax Return; (iii) Taxes with respect to any Separate Return filed by FNF or any FNT Group company; (iv) Taxes with respect to any FNF Legacy Group company or any FNT Group company for which any FIS Group company may be liable under Section 1.1502-6 of the Treasury Regulations, or any successor provision thereto, or any provision of state or local law comparable thereto; (v) Taxes with respect to any Tax Return, other than one described in Section 4.1(a)(i) through (iv) above, that includes FNF and at least one other member of the FNF Legacy Group or the FNT Group, but no member of the FIS Group; and (vi) Taxes and Adverse Consequences resulting from any failure of the Merger to qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Code. (b) FIS will indemnify and hold harmless on an After-Tax Basis FNT and each other member of the FNT Group against any and all Taxes (i) with respect to any FNF Consolidated Return for any Post-Distribution Period; (ii) with respect to any FNF Legacy Group Combined Return or any FNT Combined Return, to the extent that any member of the FIS Group caused an increase in the Tax liability on the Tax Return; (iii) with respect to any Separate Return filed by any FIS Group company; and (iv) with respect to any FIS Group company for which any FNT Group company or any FNF Legacy Group company may be liable under Section 1.1502-6 of the Treasury Regulations or any provision of state or local law comparable thereto. (c) i. In the case of Taxes arising in a Taxable Period that includes, but does not end on, the Distribution Date, the allocation of Taxes between the Pre-Distribution Period and the Post-Distribution Period shall be governed by Paragraph 4 of Schedule I. ii. The determination of whether a company caused an increase in the Tax liability of a Consolidated Return or Combined Return shall be governed by Schedule I. (d) If a party is entitled to indemnification for Taxes under this Section 4.1, such party shall also be entitled to indemnification for any Tax Losses incurred in connection with any such Taxes. 13
(e) Notwithstanding the above, indemnification for denial of the Section 355 Tax Treatment shall not be under this Section, but shall be covered by Section 5 of this Agreement. 4.2 Indemnity Payments. (a) Except as otherwise provided under this Agreement, to the extent that any party has an indemnification or payment obligation to another party pursuant to this Agreement, the Indemnitee shall provide the Indemnifying Party with its calculation of the amount of such obligation. Such calculation shall provide the Indemnifying Party sufficient detail to permit the Indemnifying Party to reasonably understand the calculations and the existence and correct amount of the Indemnified Liability. All indemnification payments shall be made to such Indemnitee within thirty (30) days after delivery by the Indemnitee to the Indemnifying Party of written notice of a payment, or, if such Indemnified Liability is contested pursuant to Section 6.2 of this Agreement, within thirty (30) days of the incurrence of such an amount based on a Final Determination, together with a computation of the amounts due. Any disputes with respect to indemnification payments shall be resolved in accordance with Section 8.5 of this Agreement. In the event of such dispute, any payment of an Indemnified Liability shall be made within thirty (30) days of the date of the resolution of such dispute under Section 8.5 of this Agreement. (b) Any payment required under this Agreement in an amount in excess of one million dollars ($1,000,000) shall be made by electronic funds transfer of immediately available funds. (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, no payment of an Indemnified Liability shall be required under this Section 4 to the extent it is duplicative of any payment made pursuant to any other provision of this Agreement and any such payment shall be made as required by such other provision. 4.3 Interest. Payments pursuant to this Agreement that are not made within the period prescribed shall bear interest for the period from and including the date immediately following the last date of the prescribed period through and including the date of payment at a per annum rate equal to the rate provided under Section 6621(c) of the Code. Such interest will be payable at the same time as the payment to which it relates and will be calculated on the basis of a year of 365 days and the actual number of days for which due. 14
SECTION 5. DISTRIBUTION TAX TREATMENT 5.1 Section 355 Tax Treatment. (a) Representations, Covenants, and Agreements. i. The parties expressly agree for all purposes to treat the Distribution as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 and related sections of the Code, including Section 361(c) of the Code ("Section 355 Tax Treatment."). Each of FNT and FIS also expressly agrees (A) to comply (and to cause each of its Affiliated Companies to comply) with the representations set forth in the Ruling Documents and the Opinion Documents to the extent that the representations made therein are descriptive of such party (which, for the avoidance of doubt, in the case of FIS shall not include representations relating to FNF), (B) not to take (and to cause each of its Affiliated Corporations not to take) any action within its control that would cause the Section 355 Tax Treatment not to apply (except where such action is required by law), and (C) to take (and to cause each of its Affiliated Companies to take) any and all actions reasonably available to such party (or Affiliated Company), and to cooperate with the other parties, to support and defend the Section 355 Tax Treatment; provided, however, that FIS shall be permitted to take any Contemplated Action. ii. FNF and FNT have reviewed the information and representations made in the Ruling Documents and the Opinion Documents, and to their knowledge, all of such information and representations are true, correct, and complete in all material respects. (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 4 of this Agreement: i. Except as set forth in paragraph (ii) of this Section 5.1(b), if there is a Final Determination that results in the disallowance, in whole or in part, of the Section 355 Tax Treatment (other than Section 355(e) Liability, which is addressed by Section 5.2 of this Agreement), then FNT shall be liable for, and shall indemnify and hold each FIS Group member harmless for, any Taxes or Adverse Consequences that would not have occurred but for such disallowance. ii. If there is a Final Determination that results in the disallowance, in whole or in part, of the Section 355 Tax Treatment (other than Section 355(e) Liability, which is addressed by Section 5.2) and any FIS Group company has breached Section 5.1(a) which breach results in such disallowance, then FIS shall be liable for, and shall indemnify and hold each FNT Group member harmless for, any Taxes or Adverse Consequences that would not have occurred but for such breach. 15
5.2 Section 355(e). (a) Unless, for each Acquisition of an interest in FIS, the FIS Acquisition Process is first satisfied at FIS' expense, FIS shall not take any action within its control, and shall cause its Affiliated Companies to refrain from taking any action within their control, which would result in a direct or indirect Acquisition (taking into account the stock aggregation and attribution rules of section 355(e)) by one or more persons in the two-year period following the Distribution Date. (b) As used herein with reference to any Acquisition of an interest in FIS, the "FIS Acquisition Process" shall be satisfied if all the following requirements are satisfied: i. FIS notifies FNT of the proposed Acquisition; ii. FIS obtains either (A) an opinion of a nationally recognized law firm or accounting firm to the effect that such Acquisition would not cause the Section 355 Tax Treatment to be disallowed by reason of the application of Section 355(e) of the Code or (B) the written consent of FNT's General Counsel or senior tax officer; and iii. FIS provides a copy of the opinion or consent described in Section 5.2(b)(ii) of this Agreement to FNT. (c) Unless, for each Acquisition of an interest in FNT, the FNT Acquisition Process is first satisfied at FNT's expense, FNT shall not take any action within its control, and shall cause its Affiliated Companies to refrain from taking any action within their control, which would result in a direct or indirect Acquisition (taking into account the stock aggregation and attribution rules of section 355(e)) by one or more persons in the two-year period following the Distribution Date. (d) As used herein with reference to any Acquisition of an interest in FNT, the "FNT Acquisition Process" shall be satisfied if all the following requirements are satisfied: i. FNT notifies FIS of the proposed Acquisition; ii. FNT obtains either (A) an opinion of a nationally recognized law firm or accounting firm to the effect that such Acquisition would not cause the Section 355 Tax Treatment to be disallowed by reason of the application of Section 355(e) of the Code or (B) the written consent of FIS's General Counsel or senior tax officer; and iii. FNT provides a copy of the opinion or consent described in Section 5.2(d)(ii) of this Agreement to FIS. 16
(e) If,by reason of an action within the control of FIS or one of its Affiliated Companies (other than a Contemplated Action), Section 355(e) of the Code is applicable to the Distribution because the Distribution was part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more persons acquired directly or indirectly FIS stock representing Control (within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code) of FNF or any successor to FNF (including FIS) in the Distribution, FIS shall pay and be liable for, and shall indemnify FNT against any liability for, on an After-Tax Basis, any resulting Taxes and other Adverse Consequences that would not have occurred but for such action, regardless of whether the FIS Acquisition Process has been satisfied. (f) Except as provided in Section 5.2(e), FNT shall pay and be liable for, and shall indemnify and hold each FIS Group member harmless from, on an After-Tax Basis, any Taxes and Adverse Consequences that occur by reason of the application of Section 355(e) of the Code to the Distribution (the "Section 355(e) Liability"). 5.3 Indemnification Payments. Any indemnification required under this Section 5 shall be paid in accordance with the terms of Sections 4.2 and 4.3 of this Agreement. SECTION 6. AUDITS AND CONTEST RIGHTS. 6.1 Notice. If, after the Effective Date, any member of a Tax Group receives written notice of, or relating to, an Audit from a Tax Authority that asserts, proposes or recommends a deficiency, claim or adjustment that, if sustained, could result in Taxes for which any member of the Other Tax Group is responsible under this Agreement, then the Tax Group Parent of the Tax Group receiving such notice shall provide or cause to be provided a copy of such notice to the Other Tax Group promptly thereafter, but, in any case, within ten (10) Business Days of receipt thereof. Each Tax Group Parent shall forward or cause to be forwarded to the Other Tax Group relevant portions of any reports or other communications which relate to such matters. 6.2 Contests. (a) Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the respective Filing Party shall have the right to control, contest, and represent the interest of any FNF Legacy Group company, any FNT Group company or any FIS Group company in any Contest relating to any Tax Return described in Section 2.2 or 2.3 of this Agreement (other than a Tax Return described in Section 6.2(b) or (c) of this Agreement) and, subject to Section 6.4(b) of this Agreement, to resolve, settle or agree to any deficiency, claim or adjustment proposed, asserted or assessed in connection with or as a result of any such Contest. The Filing Party's rights shall extend to any matter pertaining to the management and control of an Audit, including execution of waivers, choice of forum, scheduling of conferences and the resolution of any Tax Item. 17
(b) Except as otherwise provided herein, after the date of execution of this Agreement, in the case of a Contest that relates to a Tax Return for a Taxable Period beginning before the Distribution Date (or any item relating thereto or reported thereon) which would give rise to an Indemnification Liability under this Agreement, of an Indemnifying Party that is not the Filing Party with respect to such Tax Return, the Indemnifying Party shall have the right at its expense to participate in and control the conduct of such Contest. If the Indemnifying Party does not assume the defense of any such Contest for a Pre-Distribution Period, the Filing Party may defend the same in such manner as it may deem appropriate, including, but not limited to, settling such Contest after giving ten (10) Business Days' prior written notice to the Indemnifying Party setting forth the terms and conditions of settlement. In the event of a Contest covered by the first sentence of this paragraph, that involves issues (i) relating to a potential adjustment for which the Indemnifying Party has liability and (ii) that are required to be dealt with in a proceeding that also involves separate issues relating to a potential adjustment for which any Indemnitee would be liable, the Indemnitee shall have the right at its expense to control the Contest but only with respect to the latter issues. (c) With respect to a Contest involving an issue for which both (i) any FNT Group company and (ii) any FIS Group company could be liable, both parties may participate in the Contest, and the Contest may be controlled by that party which would bear the burden of the greater portion of the sum of the adjustment and any corresponding adjustments that may reasonably be anticipated for future Taxable Periods. The principle set forth in the immediately preceding sentence shall govern also for purposes of deciding any issue that must be decided jointly (including, without limitation, choice of judicial forum) in situations in which separate issues are otherwise controlled under this Section 6.2 by FNT or by FIS. (d) The party that is controlling any Contest pursuant to Sections 6.2(b) and (c) of this Agreement (the "Controlling Party"): (i) in the case of any material correspondence or filing submitted to the Tax Authority or any judicial authority that relates to the merits of the deficiency, claim or adjustment that is the subject of such Contest shall (A) reasonably in advance of such submission, but subject to applicable time constraints imposed by such Tax Authority or judicial authority, provide the other party (the "Non-Controlling Party") with a draft copy of the portion of such correspondence or filing that relates to such deficiency, claim or adjustment, (B) incorporate, subject to applicable time constraints imposed by such Tax Authority or judicial authority, the Non-Controlling Party's reasonable comments and changes on such draft copy of such correspondence or filing, and (C) provide the Non-Controlling Party with a final copy of the portion of such correspondence or filing that relates such deficiency, claim or adjustment; and 18
(ii) shall provide the Non-Controlling Party with notice reasonably in advance of, and the Non-Controlling Party shall have the right to attend, any meetings with the Tax Authority (including meetings with examiners) or hearings or proceedings before any judicial authority to the extent they relate to the deficiency, claim or adjustment that is the subject of such Contest. 6.3 Judicial Appeals. In the event that a judgment of the United States Tax Court or other court of competent jurisdiction results in an adverse determination with respect to a matter described in Sections 6.2(b) and (c) of this Agreement, then, subject to Section 6.4(b): (a) In the case of an appeal of an adverse determination, which involves no material issues other than matters for which the Non-Filing Party would be the Indemnifying Party pursuant to this Agreement, the Non-Filing Party shall have the right to cause the Filing Party to appeal from such adverse determination. (b) In the case of an appeal of any other adverse determination which involves material issues other than those for which the Non-Filing Party would be the Indemnifying Party pursuant to this Agreement and the Filing Party determines not to appeal such adverse determination, the Non-Filing Party shall have the right to cause the Filing Party to appeal from such adverse determination if the Non-Filing Party delivers to the Filing Party an opinion from an independent tax counsel or accountant selected by the Non-Filing Party and reasonably acceptable to the Filing Party that it is more likely than not that such appeal will succeed and the amount in controversy exceeds $100,000. The Filing Party shall give written notice to the Non-Filing Party of its determination of whether to appeal an adverse determination pursuant to this Section 6.3(b) not less than 20 days prior to any applicable filing deadline. (c) In the case of an adverse determination which involves matters for which the Filing Party would be the Indemnifying Party pursuant to this Agreement and, within such determination, material matters for which the Non-Filing Party would be the Indemnifying Party pursuant to this Agreement were favorably disposed, the Non-Filing Party shall have the right to prevent the Filing Party from appealing from such adverse determination unless the Filing Party delivers to the Non-Filing Party an opinion from an independent tax counsel selected by the Filing Party and reasonably acceptable to the Non-Filing Party that it is more likely than not that such appeal will succeed. (d) If the Non-Filing Party causes the Filing Party to appeal any adverse determination pursuant to this Section 6.3, the Non-Filing Party shall pay the reasonable costs, including legal fees, of the Filing Party incurred in such appeal. 19
6.4 Limitations. (a) The Non-Filing Party shall have a right to contest any deficiency, claim or adjustment in accordance with Section 6.2 of this Agreement only if: (i) within thirty (30) Business Days of a reasonable request by the Filing Party, the Non-Filing Party shall deliver to the Filing Party a written opinion of a nationally recognized tax attorney or tax accountant that is a member of a recognized law firm or accounting firm, to the effect that the Non-Filing Party's position with respect to such deficiency, claim or adjustment is supported by a reasonable basis (within the meaning of Section 1.6662-3(b)(3) of the Treasury Regulations); provided that this Section 6.4(a)(i) shall not apply to with respect to positions relating to the Tax consequences of the Distribution and Merger. (ii) the Non-Filing Party shall have agreed to be bound by a Final Determination of such deficiency, claim or adjustment; (iii) the Non-Filing Party shall have agreed to pay, and shall be currently paying, all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the Filing Party to contest such deficiency, claim or assessment including reasonable outside attorneys', accountants' and investigatory fees and disbursements to the extent such costs relate to the issue being contested by the Non-Filing Party; (iv) the Non-Filing Party shall have advanced to the Filing Party, on an interest-free basis (and with no additional net after-tax cost to the Filing Party), the amount of Tax in controversy (but not in excess of the lesser of (A) the amount of Tax for which the Non-Filing Party could be liable under this Agreement or (B) the amounts actually expended by the Filing Party for this item) to the extent necessary for the contest to proceed in the forum selected by the Controlling Party; and (v) the Non-Filing Party shall have provided to the Filing Party all documents and information, and shall have made available employees and officers of the Non-Filing Party, as have been reasonably requested by the Filing Party in contesting such deficiency, claim or adjustment. (b) The Filing Party shall not settle, compromise or otherwise resolve any Tax matter relating to Taxes with respect to a Pre-Distribution Period (a "Tax Settlement") without the prior written consent of the Non-Filing Party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld) if such Tax Settlement is reasonably likely to materially increase the Tax paid by the Non-Filing Party with respect to any Tax not subject to indemnification under this Agreement; provided, however, that in the event that the Non-Filing Party does not consent and the Filing Party reasonably believes that the withholding of consent was unreasonable, or the 20
Filing Party reasonably believes that no consent of the Non-Filing Party is required, the parties shall resolve their disagreement in accordance with Section 8.5 of this Agreement. (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 6.4, the Filing Party may resolve, settle, or agree to any deficiency, claim or adjustment for any Taxable Period if the Filing Party waives its right to indemnity with respect to such Tax Item. In such event, the Filing Party shall promptly reimburse the Non-Filing Party for all amounts previously advanced by the Non-Filing Party to the Filing Party in connection with such deficiency, claim or adjustment under Section 6.4(a)(iv) of this Agreement. In addition, except with respect to settlements described in Section 6.4(b) above, the Filing Party shall reimburse the Non-Filing Party for any Tax Detriment that directly results from the settlement of such deficiency, claim or adjustment. No waiver by the Filing Party under this Section 6.4(c) with respect to any deficiency, claim or adjustment relating to any single Tax Item, position, issue or transaction or relating to any single Tax for any one Taxable Period shall operate as a waiver with respect to any other deficiency, claim or adjustment. 6.5 Failure to Notify. The failure of the Filing Party promptly to notify the Non-Filing Party of any matter relating to a particular Tax for a Taxable Period or to take any action specified in Section 6.2 of this Agreement shall not relieve the Non-Filing Party of any liability and/or obligation which it may have to the Filing Party under this Agreement with respect to such Tax for such Taxable Period except to the extent that the Non-Filing Party's rights hereunder are materially prejudiced by such failure and in no event shall such failure relieve the Non-Filing Party of any other liability and/or obligation which it may have to the Filing Party. 6.6 Remedies. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the parties hereby agree that the sole and exclusive remedy for a breach by the Filing Party of the Filing Party's obligations to the Non-Filing Party with respect to a deficiency, claim or adjustment relating to the redetermination of a Tax Item of the Non-Filing Party for a Taxable Period shall first be a reduction in the amount that would otherwise be payable by the Non-Filing Party for such Taxable Period and then an increase in amount that would otherwise be payable by the Filing Party for such Taxable Period, in either case because of the breach. The parties further agree that no claim against the Filing Party and no defense to the Non-Filing Party's liabilities to the Filing Party under this Agreement shall arise from the resolution by the Filing Party of any deficiency, claim or adjustment relating to the redetermination of any Tax Item of the Filing Party. SECTION 7. COOPERATION. 7.1 Provision of Information and Documents. FNT and FIS shall cooperate and provide each other with all documents and information, and provide access to employees and officers of any member of the FNT Group or the FIS Group, respectively, as reasonably requested by the other party, on a mutually convenient basis during normal business hours (and promptly reimburse the other party for any out-of-pocket costs incurred by a party in providing such cooperation), 21
documents and information, and access to the requesting party) to aid the other party in preparing any Tax Return described in Section 2.2 or 2.3 of this Agreement or to contest any Audit of any such Tax Return or to obtain any opinion referred to in Section 5.2, including, without limitation, the making of representations (to the extent such representations are true) in connection with obtaining any such opinion. Such cooperation shall include, without limitation: (a) the retention and provision on reasonable request of any and all information including all books, records, documentation or other information, any necessary explanations of information, and access to personnel, until the expiration of the applicable statute of limitation for additional assessments of Tax for the Taxable Period for which such document or other information arises (giving effect to any extension, waiver, or mitigation thereof); (b) within the limits otherwise set forth herein, the execution by such party of any document that is relevant and may be necessary or helpful in connection with any Tax Return or in connection with any Contest; and (c) the use of the parties' reasonable best efforts to obtain any documentation from a governmental authority or a third party that may be necessary or helpful in connection with the foregoing. (d) informing the other parties on a timely basis as to the status and progress of all matters related in a reasonably material way to a contest of a Tax under Section 6. Each party shall provide the other parties, within 10 days of the receipt thereof, with copies of all written communications received from any Tax Authority relating to any such Tax contest, appropriately redacted for any unrelated issues also discussed therein. 7.2 Special Rules Regarding Information Required for Tax Return Preparation. The Non-Filing Party will provide to employees or representatives of the Filing Party responsible for preparing its Tax Returns with access to any relevant information, including any Ruling Documents or Tax Opinion, not in the possession of the Filing Party, as it relates to the Filing Party or any member of the Filing Group, and will provide the Filing Party with a copy of such relevant information to the extent that the issues discussed therein are relevant to the Filing Party or any member of the Filing Group within a reasonable time thereafter, but, in any case, not later than five (5) Business Days after the receipt of a written request therefor. 7.3 Consultations With Regard to Tax Items. FNT and FIS shall advise and consult with each other with respect to any Tax election or the Tax treatment of any item (including the treatment of any item that would be affected by a proposed Tax adjustment relating to a Consolidated Return or Combined Return which is the subject of an Audit or investigation, or is the subject of any proceeding or litigation) which could affect any Tax attribute of the other party or the Other Tax Group (including, but not limited to, basis in an asset or the amount of earnings and profits). 22
7.4 Limitations on Cooperation. In the event that a Filing Party determines that the provision of any information to any member of the Other Tax Group could be commercially detrimental, violate any law or agreement, or waive any privilege that may be asserted under applicable law including any privilege arising under or relating to the attorney-client relationship (including the attorney-client and work product privileges), the parties shall take reasonable measures to permit the compliance with such obligations in a manner that avoids any such harm or consequence. SECTION 8. MISCELLANEOUS. 8.1 Effectiveness. This Agreement shall become effective as of the Distribution Date ("Effective Date"). 8.2 Notices. All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and hand delivered or mailed by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) or sent by any means of electronic message transmission with delivery confirmed (by voice or otherwise) to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other addresses for a party as shall be specified by like notice) and will be deemed given on the date on which such notice is received: TO FNF: Fidelity National Financial, Inc. Attention: Anthony Park Chief Accounting Officer 601 Riverside Avenue Jacksonville, FL 32201 Telephone: (904) 854-8152 With a copy to the General Counsel at the above address TO FIS: Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. Attention: Richard Cox Senior Vice President -- Corporate Tax Director 601 Riverside Avenue Jacksonville, FL 32201 Telephone: (904) 854-8100 With a copy to the General Counsel at the above address 23
TO FNT: Fidelity National Title Group, Inc. Attention: Richard Cox Senior Vice President - Corporate Tax Director 601 Riverside Avenue Jacksonville, FL 32201 Telephone: (904) 854-8100 With a copy to the General Counsel at the above address And to such other persons or places as each party may from time to time designate by written notice sent as aforesaid. 8.3 Changes in Law. (a) Any reference to a provision of the Code or any other Tax Law shall include a reference to any applicable successor provision or law. (b) If, due to any change in applicable law or regulations or their interpretation by any court of law or other governing body having jurisdiction subsequent to the Effective Date, performance of any provision of this Agreement or any transaction contemplated thereby shall become impracticable or impossible, the parties hereto shall use their commercially reasonable efforts to find and employ an alternative means to achieve the same or substantially the same result as that contemplated by such provision. 8.4 Consent. Whenever this Agreement specifies that consent is not to be unreasonably withheld, the determination shall take into account, among other things, the relative amount of potential Tax exposure or refund involved for FNT Group companies on the one hand and the FIS Group companies on the other hand, and if the consent relates to bringing proceedings in one venue rather than another, the impact on such decision on such interests of each group. Any controversy over refusal of consent shall be resolved pursuant to Section 8.5 of this Agreement. 8.5 Dispute Resolution. (a) Amicable Resolution. FIS and FNT mutually desire that friendly collaboration continue between them. Accordingly, they will try, and they will cause their respective group members to try, to resolve in an amicable manner all disagreements and misunderstandings connected with their respective rights and obligations under this Agreement. In furtherance thereof, in the event of any dispute or disagreement (a "Dispute") between any FIS Group member and any FNT Group member as to the interpretation of any provision of this Agreement (or the performance of obligations hereunder), the matter, upon written request of either party, will be referred for resolution to a steering committee established pursuant to Section 3.3(a) of the Cross-Indemnity Agreement (the "Steering Committee"). The Steering Committee will have two members, one of whom will be appointed by FIS and the other of whom will be appointed by FNT, and each 24
of whom shall be a senior executive of the party appointing the member. The Steering Committee will make a good faith effort to promptly resolve all Disputes referred to it. Steering Committee decisions will be unanimous and will be binding on FIS and FNT. If the Steering Committee does not agree to a resolution of a Dispute within 30 days after the reference of the matter to it, then the parties will be free to exercise the remedies available to them under applicable law, subject to Sections 8.5(b) and 8.5(c). (b) Mediation. If the Steering Committee is unable to resolve any Dispute as contemplated by Section 8.5(a), either FIS or FNT may demand mediation of the Dispute by written notice to the other in which case the two parties will select a mediator within 14 days after the demand. Neither party may unreasonably withhold consent to the selection of the mediator. Each of FIS and FNT will bear its own costs of mediation but both parties will share the costs of the mediator equally. (c) Arbitration. In the event that the Dispute is not resolved in an amicable manner as set forth in Section 8.5(a) or through mediation pursuant to Section 8.5(b), the latter within 30 days of the submission of the Dispute to mediation, either party involved in the Dispute may submit the dispute to binding arbitration pursuant to this Section 8.5(c). All Disputes submitted to arbitration pursuant to this Section 8.5(c) shall be resolved in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association, unless either party involved elects to utilize an independent referee ("Referee") mutually acceptable to the parties, in which event all references herein to the American Arbitration Association shall be deemed modified accordingly. Expedited rules shall apply regardless of the amount at issue. Arbitration proceedings hereunder may be initiated by either party making a written request to the American Arbitration Association, together with any appropriate filing fee, at the office of the American Arbitration Association in Orlando, Florida. The arbitration shall be by a single qualified arbitrator ("Arbitrator") experienced in the matters at issue, such Arbitrator to be mutually agreed upon by FIS and FNT. If the parties fail to agree on an Arbitrator within 30 days after notice of commencement of arbitration, the American Arbitration Association shall, upon the request of any party to the dispute or difference, appoint the Arbitrator. All arbitration proceedings shall be held in the city of Jacksonville, Florida in a location to be specified by the Arbitrator (or any place agreed to by the parties and the Arbitrator). Any order or determination of the arbitral tribunal shall be final and binding upon the parties to the arbitration as to matters submitted and may be enforced by any party to the Dispute in any court having jurisdiction over the subject matter or over any of the parties. The parties agree that the length of time to be provided in any arbitration action to conduct discovery shall be limited to 90 days, the length of time to conduct the arbitration hearing shall be limited to ten days (with each party having equal time) and that the Arbitrator shall be required to render his or her decision within 30 days of the completion of the arbitration hearing. All costs and expenses incurred by the Arbitrator shall be shared equally by the parties. Each 25
party shall bear its own costs and expenses in connection with any such arbitration proceeding. The use of any alternative dispute resolution procedures hereunder will not be construed under the doctrines of laches, waiver or estoppel to affect adversely the rights of either party. (d) Non-Exclusive Remedy. i. Nothing in this Section 8.5 shall prevent either FIS or FNT from commencing formal litigation proceedings or seeking injunctive or similar relief if any delay resulting from efforts to mediate such Dispute could result in serious and irreparable injury to FIS, FNT or any member of either party's group. ii. Nothing in this Section 8.5 shall prevent either FIS or FNT from immediately seeking injunctive or interim relief in the event of any actual or threatened breach of any confidentiality provisions of the Cross-Indemnity Agreement. If an arbitral tribunal has not been appointed with respect to any Dispute at the time of such actual or threatened breach, then either party may seek such injunctive or interim relief from any court with jurisdiction over the matter. If an arbitral tribunal has been appointed with respect to any Dispute at the time of such actual or threatened breach, then the parties agree to submit to the jurisdiction of the state and federal courts of Duval County, Florida, pursuant to Section 3.2 of the Cross-Indemnity Agreement, with respect to such matter. (e) Commencement of Dispute Resolution Procedure. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, FIS and FNT are the only members of their respective group entitled to commence a dispute resolution procedure under this Agreement, whether pursuant to this Section 8.5 or otherwise, and each party will cause its respective group members not to commence any dispute resolution procedure other than through such party as provided in this Section 8.5(e). 8.5 Third-Party Claims. In the event of the assertion of any Third-Party Claim, claim procedures will be governed by the provisions of Section 2.3 of the Cross-Indemnity Agreement. 8.6 Authorization. Each of the parties hereto hereby represents and warrants (a) that it has the power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement, (b) that this Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of each such party, (c) that this Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of each such party and (d) that the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by such party does not contravene or conflict with any provision of law or of its charter or bylaws or any agreement, instrument or order binding on such party. 8.7 Successors. The provisions to this Agreement shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns. 26
8.8 Assignment. Except for assignments or transfers by operation of law, this Agreement shall not be assignable, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by any party hereto without the prior written consent of the other party hereto, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld, and any attempt to assign any rights or obligations arising under this Agreement without such consent shall be void. 8.9 Entire Agreement. This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall supersede all previous negotiations, commitments and writings with respect to such subject matter. 8.10 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed in the State of New York. 8.11 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement, and shall become effective when one or more such counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other parties. 8.12 Severability. In the event any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. The parties shall endeavor in good-faith negotiations to replace the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions, the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions. 8.13 No Third Party Beneficiaries. Except as otherwise provided herein, this Agreement is solely for the benefit of FNF, each member of FNT Group and each member of the FIS Group. This Agreement should not be deemed to confer upon third parties any remedy, claim, liability, reimbursement, claim of action or other rights in excess of those existing without reference to this Agreement. 8.14 Waivers. The failure of any party to require strict performance by any other party of any provision in this Agreement will not waive or diminish that party's right to demand strict performance thereafter of that or any other provision hereof. 8.15 Setoff. All payments to be made by any party under this Agreement may be netted against payments due to such party under this Agreement, but otherwise shall be made without setoff, counterclaim or withholding, all of which are hereby expressly waived. 8.16 Amendments. This Agreement may not be modified or amended except by an agreement in writing signed by each of the parties hereto. 8.17 Schedules. Schedule I shall be construed with and as an integral part of this Agreement to the same extent as if the same had been set forth verbatim herein. 27
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has caused this Agreement to be executed by a duly authorized officer as of the date first above written. FIDELITY NATIONAL FINANCIAL, INC. By: ---------------------------------- Name: Title: Date: FIDELITY NATIONAL INFORMATION SERVICES, INC. By: ---------------------------------- Name: Title: Date: FIDELITY NATIONAL TITLE GROUP, INC. By: ---------------------------------- Name: Title: Date: 28
Schedule I 1. Any Federal Income Tax to be allocated to a Consolidated Group or to any member thereof in accordance with this Agreement shall be allocated on the basis of the Hypothetical Tax of the Consolidated Group or of the relevant member thereof. (a) For purposes of this Agreement, the "Hypothetical Tax" of the Consolidated Group or any member thereof for any Taxable Period shall be the Federal Income Tax liability that the Consolidated Group or any member thereof would have had for such Taxable Period if the Consolidated Group or any member thereof had filed its own Consolidated Return or Separate Return for such Taxable Period, taking into account any carryovers to, or carrybacks from, other Taxable Periods of the Consolidated Group or any member thereof that are available in such Taxable Period of the Consolidated Group or any member thereof, or would have been so available (after taking into account Paragraph 1(b)(i) of this Schedule I), if the Consolidated Group or any member thereof had filed its own Consolidated Return or Separate Return, respectively, for such other Taxable Periods, and the Consolidated Group or any member thereof was subject to Tax on all of its taxable income at the applicable maximum rate specified in the Code but without the benefit of any surtax exemption. (b) In computing the Hypothetical Tax of the Consolidated Group or any member thereof: (i) In the case of any item of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit that is computed or subject to a limitation only on a consolidated basis, including but not limited to, charitable contributions, capital losses, foreign tax credits, research and experimentation credit and Section 1231 gains and losses ("Consolidated Items"), such Consolidated Items shall be taken into account by the Consolidated Group or any member thereof only if, and to the extent that, a Consolidated Item is taken into account and actually affects the amount of the Tax liability of the Consolidated Group; (ii) In the case of the treatment of an item subject to an election made only on a consolidated basis, the treatment will be governed by the election made by agent of the group on the Consolidated Return, and (iii) All intercompany transactions (as defined in Section 1.1502-13(b)(1) of the Treasury Regulations) between and among members of the Consolidated Group will be taken into account in computing the Hypothetical Tax of the Consolidated Group or any 29
member thereof at the time when such transactions are required to be taken into account by the Consolidated Group under Section 1.1502-13 of the Treasury Regulations, and any Consolidated item not initially taken into account in computing the tax of the Consolidated Group or any member thereof shall be taken into account by the Consolidated Group or any member thereof in the Taxable Period, and to the extent, that such Consolidated item is taken into account by the Consolidated Group. 2. Combined State/Local Taxes shall be allocated between members of the Filing Group and members of the Non-Filing Group first on the basis of, and to the extent that, the receipts, income, capital or net worth of a member of the Filing Group or of the Non-Filing Group resulted in, or increased, such Taxes, with any remaining Combined State/Local Taxes allocated among the members on the basis which each member's relative attribute (positive or negative) was taken into account in determining the amount of such Taxes. 3. If a Consolidated Federal Tax, Combined State/Local Tax, or Separate Tax liability is assessed after the Distribution Date pursuant to a Final Determination, such amount shall be allocated under the principles of paragraphs 1 and 2. 4. All Tax allocations relating to Taxable Periods that include, but do not end on, the Distribution Date, shall be made, between the Pre-Distribution Period and Post-Distribution Period on the basis of an interim closing of the books as if such Taxable Period ended as of the close of business on the Distribution Date. Any real or personal property Tax, or similar Tax, determined on an annual or periodic basis shall be attributed to the Pre-Distribution Period on the basis of the number of days in such Pre-Distribution Period to the total number of days in the entire Taxable Period. Any adjustment required by Section 481 of the Code (including adjustments for marking receivables to market) shall be attributable to the deductions or credits (or lack thereof) giving rise to the Section 481 adjustment. 30


