FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20060215082234.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On February 15, 2006, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. ("FIS") issued a news release (the "Press Release") disclosing material nonpublic information regarding its earnings outlook for the full year 2006 following its merger with Certegy, Inc. on February 1, 2006. Additionally, on February 15, 2006, FIS made available presentation materials (the "Presentation Materials") to be used by FIS at an investor and analyst conference that it is hosting on February 15, 2006. A copy of the Press Release and the Presentation Materials are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report, including the Press Release and the Presentation Materials incorporated herein by reference, is being "furnished" pursuant to General Instruction F to Current Report on Form 8-K, and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this report, including the Press Release and the Presentation Materials incorporated herein by reference, shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other documents pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or into any filing or other document pursuant to the Exchange Act except as otherwise expressly stated in any such filing.
Forward-Looking Statements
The Press Release and Presentation Materials contains statements related to future events and expectations, including FIS's pro forma outlook for 2006 and the underlying assumptions, and as such, constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements of the company to be different from those expressed or implied above. FIS expressly disclaims any duty to update or revise forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties which forward-looking statements are subject to include, but are not limited to, the effects of governmental regulations, the economy, competition, the risk that the merger of FIS and Certegy, Inc. may fail to achieve beneficial synergies or that it may take longer than expected to do so, the effects of FIS's substantial leverage, which may limit the funds available to make acquisitions and invest in its business, the risk of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in the banking, retail and financial services industries, potential overdependence on a limited number of customers due to consolidation in the banking, retail and financial services industries, the risk of a downturn in the level of real estate activity, which would adversely affect certain of FIS's businesses, failure to adapt to changes in technology or in the marketplace and other risks detailed from time to time in the Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
For More Information:
Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (NYSE: FIS) announced today that it expects pro forma full year 2006 diluted earnings per share of $1.50 to $1.55, compared to $1.28 pro forma diluted earnings per share in 2005, and pro forma diluted cash earnings per share of $2.11 to $2.17, compared to $1.92 pro forma diluted cash earnings per share in 2005. The company's outlook is based on the following assumptions:
Jacksonville, Florida  February 15, 2006 
     The merger between Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. and Certegy Inc. was effective February 1, 2006. Projected pro forma results for 2006 will include full year 2006 results for both companies, and will exclude all merger related expenses and
 
costs incurred in conjunction with Certegy's previously announced potential joint venture in Brazil. Also excluded will be approximately $24.5 million pre-tax expense associated with the vesting of certain FIS performance based options issued in conjunction with the recapitalization and sale of minority interests by FIS in March 2005, as described in Certegy's proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 22, 2005. On a GAAP basis, which will exclude January results for Certegy and include the aforementioned stock option expense and joint venture costs, the company expects full year 2006 diluted earnings per share of $1.39 to $1.44.
     FIS presents its financial results in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"). However, in order to provide the investment community with a more thorough means of evaluating the operating performance of its operations, FIS also reports several non-GAAP measures, including earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), net earnings plus depreciation and amortization less capital expenditures ("Free Cash Flow") and net earnings plus other intangible amortization, net of income tax ("Cash Earnings"). Any non-GAAP measures should be considered in context with the GAAP financial presentation and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP net earnings. Reconciliations between the aforementioned pro forma, non-GAAP and GAAP results are provided in the attachments to this press release.
     FIS will host an investor and analyst meeting today at 8:30 a.m. EST. William P. Foley II, chairman, and Lee A. Kennedy, chief executive officer, will host the meeting. To listen to the broadcast and view the slide presentation, please log on to http:www.fidelityinfoservices.com, and click on the link under the Investor Relations section at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the webcast. A replay of the webcast will be available on the company website shortly after the meeting ends until 5:00 p.m. EST March 14, 2006.
About Fidelity National Information Services, Inc.
Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (NYSE:FIS) is a leading provider of core processing for financial institutions; card issuer and transaction processing services; mortgage loan processing and mortgage-related information products; and outsourcing
 
services to financial institutions, retailers, mortgage lenders and real estate professionals. FIS has processing and technology relationships with 35 of the top 50 global banks, including nine of the top ten. Nearly 50 percent of all U.S. residential mortgages are processed using FIS software. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida, FIS maintains a strong global presence, serving over 7,800 financial institutions and over 100,000 retailers in more than 60 countries worldwide. For more information on Fidelity National Information Services, please visit . FIS is a majority-owned subsidiary of Fidelity National Financial Inc. (NYSE:FNF), number 261 on the Fortune 500. More information about FNF can be found at .
www.fidelityinfoservices.com
www.fnf.com
Forward-Looking Statements
     This presentation contains statements related to future events and expectations, including FIS's pro forma outlook for 2006 and the underlying assumptions, and as such, constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements of the company to be different from those expressed or implied above. The Company expressly disclaims any duty to update or revise forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties which forward-looking statements are subject to include, but are not limited to, the effects of governmental regulations, the economy, competition, the risk that the merger may fail to achieve beneficial synergies or that it may take longer than expected to do so, the effects of FIS's substantial leverage, which may limit the funds available to make acquisitions and invest in its business, the risk of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in the banking, retail and financial services industries, potential overdependence on a limited number of customers due to consolidation in the banking, retail and financial services industries, the risk of a downturn in the level of real estate activity, which would adversely affect certain of FIS's businesses, failure to adapt to changes in technology or in the marketplace and other risks detailed from time to time in the Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SOURCE: Fidelity National Information Services
 
EBITDA Detail
EBITDA Margin
EBIT Detail
EBIT Margin
Adjusted Diluted EPS
Cash Earnings
Free Cash Flow
 
 
Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Statements of Continuing Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2005 and Year Ended December 31, 2004
     These combined statements of continuing operations include the historical statements of continuing operations of Certegy and FIS as though the merger had occurred on January 1, 2004, adjusted for items related to the transaction as described below:
 
 
FIS presents its financial results in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"). However, in order to provide the investment community with a more thorough means of evaluating the operating performance of its operations, FIS also reports several non-GAAP measures, including earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), net earnings plus depreciation and amortization less capital expenditures ("Free Cash Flow") and net earnings plus other intangible amortization, net of income tax ("Cash Earnings"). Any non-GAAP measures should be considered in context with the GAAP financial presentation and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP net earnings.
The amounts below are projections based on the guidance range given by FIS regarding its 2006 results. The tables below are reconciliations of pro forma projections of non-GAAP measures to the nearest GAAP measurement.

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


