FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20071026122347.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 24, 2007, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the Third Quarter of 2007. The information included in Items 2.02 and 9.01 within this Current Report are being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information included in Items 2.02 and 9.01 within this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 8.01. Other Events
The Board of Directors of Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. ("FIS") has approved pursuing a plan to spin-off its Lender Processing Services ("LPS") division into a separate publicly traded company. As currently contemplated, FIS will contribute the assets of LPS into a newly formed subsidiary ("Newco") in exchange for 100% of Newco common stock and approximately $1.6 billion of Newco debt securities. Following receipt of necessary Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") approvals and a tax-free ruling from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"), FIS will distribute 100% of Newco common stock to FIS shareholders in a tax-free spin off. Immediately following the spin-off, FIS will exchange the Newco debt securities it owns for a like amount of existing FIS debt through a debt-for-debt exchange that is tax-free to FIS. FIS would then retire the FIS debt that is exchanged for the Newco debt securities. Completion of the possible spin-off is expected to occur in mid-2008. Management and directors of FIS and Newco have not yet been determined.
FIS expects to file a ruling request with the IRS regarding the tax-free nature of the LPS spin-off within approximately 60 days and a preliminary Form 10 Registration Statement with the SEC in the first quarter of 2008. Completion of the spin-off is contingent upon the satisfaction or waiver of a variety of conditions, including final FIS Board of Directors approval. The completion of the proposed spin-off is also subject to risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those associated with the ability of FIS to contribute the LPS assets and liabilities to Newco, risks associated with the ability of Newco to obtain debt on acceptable terms and of FIS to complete the debt exchange in the manner and on the terms currently contemplated as described above, the possibility that necessary governmental approvals or actions (from the IRS, the SEC or other authorities) will not be obtained, and market conditions for the spin-off."
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
      Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (NYSE:FIS), a leading global provider of technology services to financial institutions, today announced financial results for the third quarter of 2007. Consolidated revenue increased to $1.2 billion, net earnings totaled $245.3 million and net earnings per diluted share totaled $1.25. These results include after-tax gains of $159.4 million ($0.81 per diluted share) and after-tax restructuring and other charges of $12.9 million ($0.07 per diluted share).
Jacksonville, Fla.  October 24, 2007
     FIS reported revenue growth of 10.4%, adjusted EBITDA growth of 14.4% and adjusted cash earnings per diluted share of $0.63. These results include a partial month of eFunds operations, which the Company acquired on September 12, 2007. "FIS delivered another quarter of solid operating performance in a challenging market," stated FIS Executive Chairman William P. Foley, II.
     "The eFunds integration is off to a good start, and we remain confident that the additional scale and product capabilities will generate meaningful growth opportunities," added FIS President and Chief Executive Officer Lee A. Kennedy. "We are also confident that we will achieve our targeted annualized run rate cost savings of $65 million over a two-year period. Based on our preliminary assessment, we expect eFunds to contribute approximately $0.05 to $0.10 to diluted cash earnings per share in 2008."
     FIS' operating results are presented on a U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") basis and on an adjusted pro forma basis, which management believes provides more meaningful comparisons between the periods presented. The adjusted pro forma results exclude certain merger and acquisition and integration expenses, certain stock compensation charges, restructuring and other charges, and gains on the sale of Covansys Corporation common stock, Property Insight and other assets.
     The Company completed the sale of Property Insight on August 31, 2007. FIS' earnings include discontinued operations of $0.01 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2007 and $0.02 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2006, as previously disclosed. Results from operations, adjusted for the gains and restructuring items described above, and other adjustments for third quarter and full year 2006, as described in Appendix A, are presented in the following table.
 
     Revenue by segment is provided in the following table. Certain prior year numbers have been adjusted to reflect subsequent reclassifications between business units.
 
     Transaction Processing Services' adjusted EBITDA, which includes a partial month of eFunds, increased 18.8% over the prior-year quarter to $186.7 million. The adjusted EBITDA margin was 25.9%, which is a 170 basis point increase compared to prior year.
     Lender Processing Services' adjusted EBITDA was $150.8 million, or 6.2% above the prior year quarter. The adjusted EBITDA margin was 33.9%, compared to 32.4% in the second quarter of 2007, and 34.7% in the third quarter of 2006. The decline from the prior year quarter is the result of strong growth in lower margin appraisal volumes and reduced volumes in origination and tax services.
     Corporate EBITDA, as adjusted, for the third quarter of 2007 totaled $18.3 million. The $2.0 million decrease compared to the prior year quarter is attributable to lower compensation and benefit expense. The effective tax rate was 37.0%.
Full Year 2007 Outlook
     Management expects full year 2007 adjusted net earnings of approximately $1.90 per diluted share, which has been adjusted to reflect a $0.03 per share impact from the sale of Property Insight and a $0.04 per share impact for purchase amortization associated with the acquisition of eFunds. The Company anticipates cash earnings to be at the low end of its previously announced guidance of $2.44 to $2.50 per diluted share, which reflects the impact of the sale of Property Insight. eFunds is expected to be neutral to 2007 cash earnings per diluted share.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
     FIS also reports several non-GAAP measures, including earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), net earnings plus depreciation and amortization less capital expenditures ("Free Cash Flow") and net earnings plus other tax-adjusted purchase price amortization ("Cash Earnings"). Any non-GAAP measures should be considered in context with the GAAP financial presentation and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP net earnings. Reconciliations between GAAP and pro forma results and GAAP and non-GAAP results, and schedules showing historical detail are provided in the attachments to this press release, which is also available on the Company's website .
www.fidelityinfoservices.com
Conference Call
     FIS will host a call with investors and analysts to discuss third quarter results on Thursday, October 25, 2007, beginning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time. Those wishing to participate via the webcast should access the call through FIS' Investor Relations website at . Those wishing to participate via the telephone may do so by calling 800-762-6568 (USA) or 480-248-5088 (International). The webcast
http://www.fidelityinfoservices.com
 
replay will be available on FIS' Investor Relations website. The telephone replay will be available through November 10, 2007, by dialing 800-475-6701 (USA) or 320-365-3844 (International). The access code will be 890767.
About Fidelity National Information Services
     Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (NYSE:FIS) is a leading provider of core processing for financial institutions; card issuer and transaction processing services; mortgage loan processing and mortgage-related information products; and outsourcing services to financial institutions, retailers, mortgage lenders and real estate professionals. FIS has processing and technology relationships with 35 of the top 50 global banks, including nine of the top 10. Approximately 50 percent of all U.S. residential mortgages are processed using FIS software. FIS is a member of Standard and Poor's (S&P) 500 Index and has been ranked the number one banking service provider in the world by and the research firm Financial Insights and the number two overall financial technology provider in the annual FinTech 100 rankings. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Fla., FIS maintains a strong global presence, serving more than 10,000 financial institutions in more than 80 countries worldwide. For more information on Fidelity National Information Services, please visit .
American Banker
www.fidelityinfoservices.com
Forward-Looking Statements
     This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Because such statements are based on expectations as to future economic performance and are not statements of fact, actual results may differ materially from those projected. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The risks and uncertainties which forward-looking statements are subject to include, but are not limited to: changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including changes in the financial markets; the effects of our substantial leverage, which may limit the funds available to make acquisitions and invest in our business; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in the banking, retail and financial services industries; failures to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace; adverse changes in the level of real estate activity, which would adversely affect certain of our businesses; our potential inability to find suitable acquisition candidates or difficulties in integrating acquisitions; significant competition that our operating subsidiaries face; the risks and uncertainties related to our recently announced data theft, which continues to be investigated, and which includes the potential for fines, increased operating costs and loss of business; the possibility that our acquisition of EFD/eFunds, may not be accretive to our earnings due to undisclosed liabilities, management or integration issues, loss of customers, the inability to achieve targeted cost savings, or other factors; and other risks
 
detailed in the "Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information," "Risk Factors" and other sections of the Company's Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
FIS-e
SOURCE: Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. CONTACT: Mary Waggoner, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, 904-854-3282, Michelle Kersch, Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications, 904-854-5043,
mary.waggoner@fnis.com
michelle.kersch@fnis.com
 
 
Appendix A- Historical Detail and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures
EBITDA Detail
EBITDA Margin
EBIT Detail
EBIT Margin
Cash Earnings
EBITDA Detail
EBITDA Margin
EBIT Detail
EBIT Margin
Cash Earnings
 
Free Cash Flow
Free Cash Flow
 
2007  Quarter 3
2006- Quarter 3


