FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20070209163151.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 6, 2007, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the Fourth Quarter of 2006. The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
      Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (NYSE:FIS), a leading global provider of technology services to financial institutions, today announced financial results for the fourth quarter of 2006. Consolidated revenue increased to $1.1 billion, net earnings increased to $75.1 million and net earnings per diluted share was $0.39. For the full year 2006, consolidated revenue increased to $4.1 billion, net earnings increased to $259.1 million and net earnings per diluted share was $1.37. In accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"), these results reflect the combination between FIS and Certegy Inc. as of February 1, 2006, the effective date of the merger.
Jacksonville, Fla.  February 6, 2007
     "FIS reported excellent fourth quarter results with pro forma revenue growth of 12.5%, EBITDA growth of 11.0% and adjusted cash earnings of $0.58 per diluted share," stated FIS Chairman William P. Foley, II. For the full year 2006, the company reported pro forma revenue growth of 8.8% and adjusted pro forma EBITDA growth of 10.6%. "We are extremely pleased with the outstanding results we achieved in 2006, which was our first year as a new public company. Our strong operating performance provides an excellent foundation for the continued growth and success of our company."
     FIS' operating results are presented on a GAAP and on an adjusted pro forma basis, which management believes provides more meaningful comparisons between the periods presented. FIS' pro forma results reflect a January 1, 2005, effective date for the merger between FIS and Certegy, the March 2005 recapitalization and sale of minority interests by FIS. Additionally, the adjusted pro forma results exclude merger and acquisition and integration expenses. Reconciliations between GAAP and pro forma results are provided in the attachments to this press release, which are posted on the company's website at http://www.fidelityinfoservices.com.
 
     FIS presents its financial results in accordance with GAAP. However, in order to provide the investment community with a broader means of evaluating the operating performance of its operations, FIS also reports several non-GAAP measures, including earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), net earnings plus depreciation and amortization less capital expenditures ("Free Cash Flow") and net earnings plus other tax-adjusted purchase price amortization ("Cash Earnings"). Any non-GAAP measures should be considered in context with the GAAP financial presentation and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP net earnings.
Pro Forma Segment Information
     FIS' Transaction Processing Services generated revenue of $694.7 million, or 16.1% over the prior-year period, driven by 55.0% growth in International, 8.9% growth in Enterprise Solutions and 8.6% growth in Integrated Financial Solutions. The company's new item processing operation in Brazil, new account wins and deeper penetration of the existing customer base contributed to the strong revenue growth. Transaction Processing Services' EBITDA increased 16.6% over the prior-year quarter to $179.2 million. The EBITDA margin of 25.8% was comparable to the fourth quarter of 2005, and 160 basis points above the third quarter 2006 EBITDA margin.
     Lender Processing Services revenue increased 7.9% to $437.1 million, driven by 10.6% growth in Information Services, which continues to benefit from strong results within the default solutions and appraisal product lines. Lender Processing Services' EBITDA was $138.8 million, or 0.6%, below the prior year quarter. The EBITDA margin was 31.7% compared to 34.4% in the prior year. The declines in EBITDA and the EBITDA margin are primarily the result of strong growth in lower margin product lines, lower tax processing volumes and a decline in revenue from the company's investment property exchange services.
 
     Additional segment and pro forma information is provided in the following table:
     Pro forma corporate expense for the fourth quarter of 2006 totaled $23.3 million. The $4.5 million, or 16.1%, decline from the prior-year quarter was primarily attributable to the consolidation of duplicate administrative functions. Pro forma interest expense for the quarter increased $8.2 million to $50.8 million, driven primarily by higher interest rates. The effective tax rate was 37.1% for the quarter.
2007 Outlook
     FIS provided its outlook for 2007 as follows:
 
     The company's 2007 guidance includes after-tax stock option expense of approximately $21.5 million, or $0.11 per diluted share. This compares to after-tax stock option expense of $31.4 million in 2006, which included $12.1 million, or $0.06 per diluted share in comparable expense, and $19.3 million in non-recurring performance based and accelerated stock option expense. The guidance excludes the remaining integration costs associated with the February 1, 2006, combination of FIS and Certegy Inc., and the previously announced first quarter 2007 non-cash charge of approximately $17.2 million after tax, or $0.09 per diluted share, incurred in conjunction with refinancing the company's credit facilities, which was completed January 18, 2007.
     FIS will host a call with investors and analysts to discuss first quarter results on Wednesday, February 7, 2007, beginning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern daylight time. Those wishing to participate via the webcast should access the call through FIS' Investor Relations website at Those wishing to participate via the telephone may do so by calling 800-288-8961 (USA) or 612-332-0107 (International). The webcast replay will be available on FIS' Investor Relations website. The telephone replay will be available through February 14, 2007, by dialing 800-475-6701 (USA) or 320-365-3844 (International). The access code will be 859909.
http://www.fidelityinfoservices.com.
About Fidelity National Information Services
     Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (NYSE:FIS) is a leading provider of core processing for financial institutions; card issuer and transaction processing services; mortgage loan processing and mortgage-related information products; and outsourcing services to financial institutions, retailers, mortgage lenders and real estate professionals. FIS has processing and technology relationships with 35 of the top 50 global banks, including nine of the top 10. Approximately 50 percent of all U.S. residential mortgages are processed using FIS software. FIS is a member of Standard and Poor's (S&P) 500 Index and has been ranked the number one banking service provider in the world by and the research firm Financial Insights and the number two overall financial technology provider in the annual FinTech 100 rankings. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Fla., FIS maintains a strong global presence, serving more than 7,800 financial institutions in more than 60 countries worldwide. For more information on Fidelity National Information Services, please visit .
American Banker
www.fidelityinfoservices.com
Forward-Looking Statements
     This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and
 
information currently available to, management. Because such statements are based on expectations as to future economic performance and are not statements of fact, actual results may differ materially from those projected. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The risks and uncertainties which forward-looking statements are subject to include, but are not limited to: changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including changes in the financial markets; the effects of our substantial leverage, which may limit the funds available to make acquisitions and invest in our business; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in the banking, retail and financial services industries; failures to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace; adverse changes in the level of real estate activity, which would adversely affect certain of our businesses; our potential inability to find suitable acquisition candidates or difficulties in integrating acquisitions; significant competition that our operating subsidiaries face; and other risks detailed in the "Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information," "Risk Factors" and other sections of the Company's Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
FIS-e
SOURCE: Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. CONTACT: Mary Waggoner, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, 904-854-3282, mary.waggoner@fnf.com
 
 
EBITDA Detail
EBITDA Margin
EBIT Detail
EBIT Margin
Adjusted Diluted EPS
Cash Earnings
Free Cash Flow
 
EBITDA Detail
EBITDA Margin
EBIT Detail
EBIT Margin
Adjusted Diluted EPS
Free Cash Flow
 
 
2006  Quarter 4
2006  Full Year
2005  Quarter 4
2005  Full Year
 
FIS presents its financial results in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"). However, in order to provide the investment community with a more thorough means of evaluating the operating performance of its operations, FIS also reports several non-GAAP measures, including earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), net earnings plus depreciation and amortization less capital expenditures ("Free Cash Flow") and net earnings plus intangible amortization, net of income tax ("Cash Earnings"). Any non-GAAP measures should be considered in context with the GAAP financial presentation and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP net earnings.
The amounts below are projections based on the guidance range given by FIS regarding its 2007 results. The tables below are reconciliations of pro forma projections of non-GAAP measures to the nearest GAAP measurement.


