FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20070327080136.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On March 27, 2007, FIS made available presentation materials (the "Presentation Materials") to be used by FIS at an investor and analyst conference that it is hosting on March 27, 2007. A copy of the Presentation Materials are attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report, including the Presentation Materials incorporated herein by reference, is being "furnished" pursuant to General Instruction F to Current Report on Form 8-K, and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this report, including the Presentation Materials incorporated herein by reference, shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other documents pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or into any filing or other document pursuant to the Exchange Act except as otherwise expressly stated in any such filing.
Forward-Looking Statements
The Presentation Materials contain statements related to future events and expectations, including FIS's pro forma outlook for 2007 and the underlying assumptions, and as such, constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements of the company to be different from those expressed or implied above. FIS expressly disclaims any duty to update or revise forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties which forward-looking statements are subject to include, but are not limited to, the effects of governmental regulations, the economy, competition, the effects of FIS's substantial leverage, which may limit the funds available to make acquisitions and invest in its business, the risk of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in the banking, retail and financial services industries, potential overdependence on a limited number of customers due to consolidation in the banking, retail and financial services industries, the risk of a downturn in the level of real estate activity, which would adversely affect certain of FIS's businesses, failure to adapt to changes in technology or in the marketplace and other risks detailed from time to time in the Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
86
 
 
 
88
 


