FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20070427114341.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 25, 2007, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the First Quarter of 2007. The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
      Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (NYSE:FIS), a leading global provider of technology services to financial institutions, today announced financial results for the first quarter of 2007. Consolidated revenue increased to $1.1 billion, net earnings increased to $59.5 million and net earnings per diluted share was $0.30.
Jacksonville, Fla. April 25, 2007
     FIS reported pro forma revenue growth of 13.1%, pro forma EBITDA growth of 14.1% and adjusted cash earnings per diluted share of $0.54. "We are very pleased with the outstanding first quarter performance," stated FIS Chairman William P. Foley, II. "Excellent sales results, combined with a strong emphasis on improving our cost base, drove 20% growth in cash earnings per share. These strong results position us solidly to achieve our full year 2007 objectives."
     FIS' operating results are presented on a GAAP and on an adjusted pro forma basis, which management believes provides more meaningful comparisons between the periods presented. FIS' 2006 pro forma results reflect a January 1, 2006 effective date for the merger between FIS and Certegy. Additionally, the adjusted pro forma results exclude certain merger and acquisition and integration expenses, certain stock compensation charges and debt restructuring charges. Reconciliations between GAAP and pro forma results are provided in the attachments to this press release, which are posted on the company's website at http://www.fidelityinfoservices.com.
 
     FIS presents its financial results in accordance with GAAP. However, in order to provide the investment community with a broader means of evaluating the operating performance of its operations, FIS also reports several non-GAAP measures, including earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), net earnings plus depreciation and amortization less capital expenditures ("Free Cash Flow") and net earnings plus other tax-adjusted purchase price amortization ("Cash Earnings"). Any non-GAAP measures should be considered in context with the GAAP financial presentation and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP net earnings. Reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP results and schedules showing historical detail are provided in the attachments to this press release.
Pro Forma Segment Information
     FIS' Transaction Processing Services generated revenue of $680.5 million, or 14.9% over the prior-year period, driven by 58.4% growth in International, 8.6% growth in Enterprise Solutions and 5.1% growth in Integrated Financial Solutions. Increased market share, expansion within the existing client base and the Company's new item processing operation in Brazil contributed to the strong revenue growth. Transaction Processing Services' EBITDA increased 20.8% over the prior-year quarter to $160.7 million. The EBITDA margin was 23.6%, a 120 basis point improvement over the first quarter of 2006.
     Lender Processing Services' revenue increased 10.0% to $440.4 million, driven by 16.7% growth in Information Services, which continues to benefit from strong results within the default solutions and appraisal product lines. A 6.1% increase in title and settlement services revenue also contributed to the strong revenue growth. Lender Processing Services' EBITDA was $138.6 million, or 3.3% above the prior year quarter. The EBITDA margin was 31.5% compared to 33.5% in the first quarter of 2006. The decline is primarily the result of strong growth in lower margin product lines, lower tax processing volumes and a decline in revenue from the Company's investment property
 
exchange services. The first quarter 2007 EBITDA margin was comparable to the 31.7% margin reported for the fourth quarter of 2006.
     Additional segment and pro forma information is provided in the following table. Certain prior year numbers have been adjusted to reflect subsequent reclassifications between business units:
     Corporate expense for the first quarter of 2007 totaled $20.3 million. The $2.4 million, or 10.6%, decline from pro forma corporate expense of $22.7 million in the prior year quarter was attributable to the consolidation of duplicate administrative functions and the incremental impact of the Company's leasing operation. These amounts were partially offset by a $4.7 million increase in stock option expense. The effective tax rate was 37.2% .
2007 Outlook
     The Company reiterated its guidance for earnings per diluted share of $1.97 to $2.03, and cash earnings per diluted share of $2.47 to $2.53. Management expects 2007 pro forma revenue growth to approach the high end of its previously announced guidance of 7% to 9%, and pro forma EBITDA growth to approach the high end of its previously announced guidance of 10% to 12%.
 
     FIS will host a call with investors and analysts to discuss first quarter results on Thursday, April 26, 2007, beginning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time. Those wishing to participate via the webcast should access the call through FIS' Investor Relations website at . Those wishing to participate via the telephone may do so by calling 888-428-4473 (USA) or 612-332-0637 (International). The webcast replay will be available on FIS' Investor Relations website. The telephone replay will be available through May 3, 2007, by dialing 800-475-6701 (USA) or 320-365-3844 (International). The access code will be 869678.
http://www.fidelityinfoservices.com
About Fidelity National Information Services
     Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (NYSE:FIS) is a leading provider of core processing for financial institutions; card issuer and transaction processing services; mortgage loan processing and mortgage-related information products; and outsourcing services to financial institutions, retailers, mortgage lenders and real estate professionals. FIS has processing and technology relationships with 35 of the top 50 global banks, including nine of the top 10. Approximately 50 percent of all U.S. residential mortgages are processed using FIS software. FIS is a member of Standard and Poor's (S&P) 500 Index and has been ranked the number one banking service provider in the world by and the research firm Financial Insights and the number two overall financial technology provider in the annual FinTech 100 rankings. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Fla., FIS maintains a strong global presence, serving more than 7,800 financial institutions in more than 60 countries worldwide. For more information on Fidelity National Information Services, please visit .
American Banker
www.fidelityinfoservices.com
     
Forward-Looking Statements
     This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Because such statements are based on expectations as to future economic performance and are not statements of fact, actual results may differ materially from those projected. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The risks and uncertainties which forward-looking statements are subject to include, but are not limited to: changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including changes in the financial markets; the effects of our substantial leverage, which may limit the funds available to make acquisitions and invest in our business; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in the banking, retail and financial services industries; failures to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace; adverse changes in the level of real estate activity, which would adversely affect certain of our businesses; our potential inability to find suitable acquisition candidates or difficulties in integrating acquisitions; significant competition that our operating
 
subsidiaries face; and other risks detailed in the "Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information," "Risk Factors" and other sections of the Company's Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SOURCE: Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. CONTACT: Mary Waggoner, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, 904-854-3282, mary.waggoner@fnf.com
 
 
NOTE: The Adjustments Column (2006 only) represents pro forma adjustments relating to the merger transaction between CEY and FIS to reflect as if the merger occurred January 1, 2006
EBITDA Detail
EBITDA Margin
EBIT Detail
EBIT Margin
EBITDA Detail
EBITDA Margin
EBIT Detail
EBIT Margin
Continued on following page
 
Cash Earnings
Free Cash Flow
Cash Earnings
Free Cash Flow
 
 
These combined statements of continuing operations include the historical statements of continuing operations of Certegy and FIS as though the merger had occurred on January 1, 2006, adjusted for items related to the transaction as described below:
 


