FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20070703121319.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
     On July 3, 2007, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. ("FIS") announced that its subsidiary Certegy Check Services, Inc., had learned of the misappropriation of consumer information by a former employee. Further details regarding these events are included in FIS's press release, filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
     Although FIS currently does not believe that it faces any significant liability for consumer or financial fraud, there can be no assurance that this matter will not result in fines or other charges or adversely affect FIS's relationships with the VISA and Master Card issuing organizations, customers or regulators.
     This report contains forward-looking statements and is subject to the statements in the section of the incorporated press release titled "Forward Looking Statements."
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
For Immediate Release Tuesday, July 3, 2007
.  Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (NYSE: FIS), announced today that its subsidiary, Certegy Check Services, Inc. ("Certegy"), a service provider to U.S. retail merchants, based in St. Petersburg, Florida, was victimized by a former employee who misappropriated and sold consumer information to a data broker who in turn sold a subset of that data to a limited number of direct marketing organizations. The incident does not involve any outside intrusion into, or compromise of, Certegy's technology systems.
JACKSONVILLE, Fla
"As a result of this apparent theft, the consumers affected received marketing solicitations from the companies that bought the data," said Renz Nichols, President of Certegy Check Services. "We have no reason to believe that the theft resulted in any subsequent fraudulent activity or financial damage to the consumer, and we are taking the necessary steps to see that any further use of the data stops."
 
Certegy maintains bank account information in connection with its check authorization business that helps merchants to decide whether to accept checks as payment for goods and services. In addition, Certegy maintains check and credit card information in connection with its gaming operations that are designed to assist casinos in providing their customers with access to funds.
Background
This theft came to light when one of Certegy's retail check processing customers alerted Certegy to a correlation between a small number of check transactions and the receipt by the retailer's customers of direct telephone solicitations and mailed marketing materials. Certegy launched an immediate investigation and was unable to detect any breach of its security systems and, thereafter, engaged a forensic investigator to validate its findings. Unable to detect any compromise in its firewalls and other system security measures, Certegy requested that the U.S. Secret Service contact the marketing companies in question to trace the source of the data. The Secret Service was able to identify the company supplying the information and, with further assistance from Certegy, determined that the company was owned and operated by a Certegy employee. The employee was a senior level database administrator who was entrusted with defining and enforcing data access rights. To avoid detection, the technician removed the information from Certegy's facility via physical processes; not electronic transmission.
Although the employee was authorized to access the consumer information in order to perform his job responsibilities, the removal and unlawful use of that information were, obviously, outside the scope of his employment and Certegy's knowledge. This unlawful transfer of company information violated the individual's confidentiality commitment to Certegy and is a severe breach of fiduciary duty. As a result, the employee was terminated. Certegy is taking appropriate steps to hold the dismissed employee responsible for his actions.
Employee Betrayal
The misappropriated information included names, addresses, and telephone numbers as well as, in many cases, dates of birth and bank account or credit card information. Approximately 2.3 million records are believed to be at issue, with approximately 2.2 million containing bank account information and 99,000 containing credit card information. The company is still investigating the time period over which the misappropriations occurred.
No Evidence of Fraud
While Certegy's investigation continues, it has seen no evidence that bank account or credit card information was used for anything other than marketing purposes, and is unaware of any instance of identity theft or fraudulent financial activity. Most importantly, Certegy is doing everything possible to ensure that any inconvenience experienced by consumers is minimized.
Certegy is committed to a disciplined action plan designed to minimize the impact of the misappropriated consumer information, particularly to consumers.
Immediate Action
 
Based on the investigation to date, Certegy does not expect that the costs to implement this action plan will materially impact financial results.
Certegy is a conscientious company that takes its responsibility to protect and preserve consumer information very seriously. It carefully selects and screens employee candidates, monitors and supervises employees, and maintains a whistleblower hotline for employees to report fraudulent or criminal activity. Certegy also encourages its employees to report any improper behavior they witness. We regret this unfortunate incident happened despite all of these efforts. Resolving this matter and implementing additional safeguards is the company's highest priority.
Conclusion
"I am extremely proud of the employees and law enforcement officials who are working diligently to uncover the facts in this incident. On behalf of Fidelity National Information Services and our Certegy subsidiary, I want to express my deep sadness and heartfelt apology over this incident," said Lee A. Kennedy, President and Chief Executive Officer, Fidelity National Information Services. "We will do everything possible to ensure no consumer is harmed because of this horrible betrayal."
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on
Forward Looking Statements
 
management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Because such statements are based on expectations and are not statements of fact, actual events and results may differ materially from those projected. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The risks and uncertainties which forward-looking statements are subject to include, but are not limited to, the possibility that additional facts are discovered in our continuing investigation and the reactions of consumers, regulators and others to the events described above.


