FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20081028151707.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 27, 2008, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the Third Quarter of 2008. The information included in Items 2.02 and 9.01 within this Current Report are being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information included in Items 2.02 and 9.01 within this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the financial results presentation is attached as Exhibit 99.2
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
PRESS RELEASE
      Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (NYSE:FIS), a leading global provider of technology services to financial institutions, today announced consolidated financial results for the third quarter of 2008.
Jacksonville, Fla.  October 27, 2008
     Consolidated revenue increased 25.4% to $893.8 million, including approximately $142.8 million in revenue from eFunds, which FIS acquired in September 2007. Excluding eFunds, organic revenue increased 9.4% over the comparable 2007 quarter. GAAP net earnings from continuing operations totaled $0.24 per share, compared to $0.68 per share in the third quarter of 2007, which included an after-tax gain of $0.58 from the sale of Covansys stock.
     Non-GAAP adjusted net earnings from continuing operations for the third quarter of 2008 totaled $0.42 per share, compared to $0.31 in the prior year, an increase of 35.5%. Adjusted EBITDA increased 27.9% to $228.9 million compared to $179.0 million in the third quarter of 2007. The EBITDA margin improved to 25.6% compared to 25.1% in the prior-year quarter and increased sequentially from 23.1% in the second quarter of 2008. Pro forma free cash flow (cash from operations, adjusted for merger and integration costs, less capital expenditures) increased to $118.2 million in the third quarter of 2008. Pro forma free cash flow for the first nine months of 2008 totaled $209.3 million, or 102% of adjusted net earnings, compared with $41.5 million in the same period in the prior year.
 
     "FIS has achieved consistent improvement in organic revenue growth, EBITDA margin and free cash flow throughout 2008, and we are very pleased with these results," stated William P. Foley, II, executive chairman of FIS. "Despite the increasingly challenging economic environment, we are reaffirming our previously communicated earnings guidance."
     "FIS is executing to plan, despite persistent challenges in the marketplace," added Lee A. Kennedy, president and chief executive officer. "We continue to focus on the goals that we established early in the year, including driving higher organic revenue growth through market share gains and cross sales, reducing our overall cost structure, completing the eFunds integration, reducing capital expenditures and improving cash flow. We are making solid progress on each of these initiatives, as demonstrated by the strong results across all business lines."
     FIS' operating results are presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and on an adjusted pro forma basis, which management believes may provide more meaningful comparisons with respect to our current operations between the periods presented. The adjusted results exclude the after-tax impact of merger and acquisition and integration expenses, LPS spin-off related costs, debt restructuring and other charges, gains (losses) on the sale of certain non-strategic assets and acquisition related amortization.
Divestitures and Discontinued Operations
     During the first half of 2008, FIS completed the sale of two non-strategic businesses, FIS Credit Services and Certegy Gaming Services. The company also exited a small operation that provided services to the residential homebuilding market. On July 2, 2008, FIS completed the spin-off of Lender Processing Services, Inc., (NYSE:LPS). These businesses are reported as discontinued operations for the periods presented.
     On October 13, 2008, FIS completed the previously announced sale of Certegy Australia, Ltd., and will report this business as a discontinued operation beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008. Certegy Australia provides retail lending services to consumers.
Supplemental Information
     Consolidated third quarter revenue increased 25.4% to $893.8 million (including eFunds revenue of $142.8 million) compared to $712.8 million (including eFunds revenue of $26.6 from the acquisition date of September 12, 2007) in the prior year quarter. Excluding eFunds revenue from both periods, revenue increased 9.4% to $751.0 million, driven by 25.5% growth in International, 9.0% growth in Integrated Financial Solutions and 3.7% growth in Enterprise Solutions. Termination fees totaled $1.7 million in the third quarter of 2008, compared to $3.0 million in the third quarter of 2007.
 
     The strong performance in International was driven by growth in FIS' core bank processing operation in Germany, new customer implementations, the company's Brazilian card processing joint venture and favorable currency rates, which benefitted revenue by $13.6 million. The increase in Integrated Financial Solutions was due to growth in core processing services, ebusiness solutions, card marketing programs and a $5.6 million year-to-date adjustment for pass-through interchange revenue. Excluding the interchange adjustment, Integrated Financial Solutions revenue increased approximately 7.2%.
     Enterprise Solutions revenue, excluding eFunds, increased 3.7% to $240.1 million compared to the prior-year quarter and increased 5.6% compared to the second quarter of 2008. Increased software license sales and outsourced technology revenue more than offset a $6.9 million decline in retail check risk management revenue.
     Adjusted EBITDA increased 27.9% to $228.9 million. The adjusted EBITDA margin increased 50 basis points to 25.6% compared to the third quarter of 2007, and increased 250 basis points compared to 23.1% in the second quarter of 2008. The improvement was driven by increasing profitability in the company's International business, efficiency gains and higher software license fees.
     Corporate overhead expense totaled $23.7 million in the third quarter of 2008, compared to $15.6 million in the third quarter of 2007. The increase was driven by higher incentive compensation accruals and stock option expense.
Balance Sheet
     During the quarter, FIS retired $200 million of secured 4.75% fixed rate notes. As of September 30, 2008, the company had $238.5 million in cash and cash equivalents and $2.6 billion in outstanding debt, of which $2.1 billion has been swapped to fixed interest rates. The effective interest rate on FIS total debt at September 30, 2008, was 5.5%.
Outlook
FIS reaffirmed its previously communicated full year 2008 earnings guidance as follows:
 
In addition, the company provided guidance for fourth quarter 2008 as follows:
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
     FIS reports several non-GAAP measures, including earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") and adjusted net earnings, free cash flow and organic revenues. The adjusted results exclude the after-tax impact of merger and acquisition and integration expenses, certain stock compensation charges, debt restructuring and other costs, gains (losses) on the sale of certain non-strategic assets and acquisition related amortization. Organic revenue excludes eFunds during the periods being compared. Any non-GAAP measures should be considered in context with the GAAP financial presentation and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP net earnings. Further, FIS' non-GAAP measures may be calculated differently from similarly titled measures of other companies. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to related GAAP measures is included in the attachments to this release.
Conference Call and Webcast
     FIS will host a call with investors and analysts to discuss third quarter 2008 results on Monday, October 27, 2008, beginning at 5:00 p.m. Eastern daylight time. To register for the live event and to access a supplemental slide presentation, go to the Investor Relations section at www.fidelityinfoservices.com and click on "Events and Multimedia." A webcast replay will be available on FIS' Investor Relations website, and a telephone replay will be available through November 10, 2008, by dialing 800-475-6701 (USA) or 320-365-3844 (International). The access code will be 965579. To access a PDF version of this release and accompanying financial tables, go to .
http://www.investor.fidelityinfoservices.com
About Fidelity National Information Services, Inc.
     Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (NYSE: FIS), a Fortune 500 company, is a leading provider of core processing for financial institutions; card issuer and transaction processing services; and outsourcing services to financial institutions and
 
retailers. FIS has processing and technology relationships with 40 of the top 50 global banks, including nine of the top 10. FIS is a member of Standard and Poor's (S&P) 500(R) Index and has been ranked the number one overall financial technology provider in the world by American Banker and the research firm Financial Insights in the annual FinTech 100 rankings. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Fla., FIS maintains a strong global presence, serving more than 13,000 financial institutions in more than 80 countries worldwide. For more information on Fidelity National Information Services, please visit www.fidelityinfoservices.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
     This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Because such statements are based on expectations as to future economic performance and are not statements of fact, actual results may differ materially from those projected. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The risks and uncertainties which forward-looking statements are subject to include, but are not limited to: changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including changes in the financial markets; the effects of our substantial leverage which may limit the funds available to make acquisitions and invest in our business; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures suffered by firms in those industries; failures to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace; our potential inability to find suitable acquisition candidates or difficulties in integrating acquisitions; significant competition that our operating subsidiaries face; the possibility that our acquisition of EFD/eFunds may not be accretive to our earnings due to undisclosed liabilities, management or integration issues, loss of customers, the inability to achieve targeted cost savings, or other factors; and other risks detailed in the "Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information," "Risk Factors" and other sections of the Company's Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
FIS-e
SOURCE: Fidelity National Information Services, Inc.
CONTACTS: Mary Waggoner, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations (FIS), 904-854-3282, ;
mary.waggoner@fnis.com
 
 
Exhibit A
 
 
Exhibit B
 
Exhibit C
 
Exhibit D
 
Exhibit E
 
     
Exhibit E
     
 
 
Exhibit F
 
See accompanying notes.
 
Exhibit F
 
See accompanying notes.
 
Exhibit F
 
See accompanying notes.
 
Exhibit F
 
See accompanying notes.
 
Notes to Unaudited  Supplemental GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation for the Three and Nine-Month Periods ended September 30, 2008
The adjustments are as follows:

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


