FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20080801172143.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 2, 2008, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. ("FIS") completed the spin-off of Lender Processing Services, Inc("LPS"). Since the completion of the spin-off occurred subsequent to the reporting period ended June 30, 2008, generally accepted accounting principles do not allow presentation of LPS as a discontinued operation in our periodic filings until FIS presents operating results for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2008.
Because of these requirements and desire to furnish additional information to investors to improve the understanding of the Company's operating performance, management is separately furnishing information which reflects the operations of LPS as a discontinued operation.
The purpose of the schedules included in Exhibit 99.1 is to recast the 2007 results by quarter and on an annual basis, along with the first quarter of 2008 in a manner consistent with how FIS will report results beginning in the third quarter of 2008. These schedules report the operating results of LPS, and other smaller operations, which we have exited as discontinued operations. Revenues and expenses associated with LPS and other disposed entities are presented as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of earnings. Discontinued operations are reflected separately, net of tax, below net earnings from continuing operations.
The exhibit included with this filing contains financial information determined by methods other than in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). FIS's management uses non-GAAP measures for planning purposes, including the preparation of annual operating budgets, and to evaluate the operating performance of its businesses and to compare its operating performance with that of its competitors. Therefore, management believes non-GAAP measures to be relevant and useful information for investors. The non-GAAP measures exclude certain items, which management believes are not indicative of core operating results, however, these items do impact our income statement, and management therefore utilizes non-GAAP measures as an operating performance measure in conjunction with GAAP measures, such as operating income or other income statement data prepared in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP measures should not be used in isolation or as a substitute for other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP.
The information included in Items 2.02 and 9.01 within this Current Report are being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information included in Items 2.02 and 9.01 within this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
A copy of the historical financial data is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
99.1   Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. Supplemental Financial Schedules
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
On July 2, 2008, FIS completed the spin-off of Lender Processing Services, Inc. ("LPS"). Since the Completion of the spin-off occurred subsequent to the reporting period ended June 30, 2008, generally accepted accounting principles do not allow presentation of LPS as a discontinued operation in our periodic filings until FIS presents operating results for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2008.
Because of these requirements and desire to furnish additional information to investors to improve the understanding of the Company's operating performance, management is separately furnishing information which reflects the operations of LPS as a discontinued operation.
The purpose of the attached schedules is to recast the 2007 results by quarter and on an annual basis along with the first quarter of 2008 in a manner consistent with how FIS will report results beginning in the third quarter of 2008. These schedules report the operating results of LPS, and other smaller operations, which we have exited as discontinued operations. Revenues and expenses associated with LPS and other disposed entities are presented as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of earnings. Discontinued operations are reflected separately, net of tax, below net earnings from continuing operations.
 
Exhibit A
 
Exhibit A
 
 
 
Exhibit B
 
 
 
Exhibit C
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(A)   These columns represent the historical segment presentation of FIS as presented in the 2007 Form 10-K. Consolidated Results agree to the quarterly financial information provided on Page 24 of the FIS Form 10-K filed on February 29, 2008
(B)   This column represents the components of LPS previously reported within the Lender Processing Services segment that will be presented as discontinued operations beginning with FIS's reported results beginning with the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2008
(C)   This column represents the operations of HFN, Credit, GameCash Financial information that were presented as discontinued operations beginning with FIS's reported results beginning with the three-month period ended March 31, 2008
(D)   This presentation represents FIS's consolidated results recast to reflect discontinued operations consistent with how earnings will be reported by FIS beginning with the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2008.
 
 


