FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20080507140122.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
     Effective as of May 1, 2008, the Company entered into employment agreements with Lee A. Kennedy, Jeffrey S. Carbiener and Eric Swenson. Each employment agreement provides for a three-year term expiring on April 15, 2011, and contains a provision for automatic annual extensions beginning on the first anniversary of the effective date and continuing thereafter unless either party provides timely notice that the term should not be extended.
     Mr. Kennedy's employment agreement provides that he will serve as the Company's Chief Executive Officer, and will receive a minimum annual base salary of $1,015,000. Under his employment agreement, Mr. Kennedy's annual cash bonus target under the Company's annual incentive plan will be 200% of his base salary, with higher or lower amounts payable depending on performance relative to targeted results.
     Mr. Carbiener's employment agreement provides that he will serve as the Company's Chief Financial Officer, and will receive a minimum annual base salary of $515,000. Under his employment agreement, Mr. Carbiener's annual cash bonus target under the Company's annual incentive plan will be 150% of his base salary, with higher or lower amounts payable depending on performance relative to targeted results.
     Mr. Swenson's employment agreement provides that he will serve as the Company's President of Mortgage Information Services, and will receive a minimum annual base salary of $490,000. Under his employment agreement, Mr. Swenson's annual cash bonus target under the Company's annual incentive plan will be 100% of his base salary, with higher or lower amounts payable depending on performance relative to targeted results.
     Under the employment agreements, each executive is entitled to supplemental disability insurance sufficient to provide at least 2/3 of his pre-disability base salary, and the executive and his eligible dependents are entitled to medical and other insurance coverage the Company provides to its other top executives as a group.
     If, during the term of the employment agreement, (i) an executive's employment is terminated by the Company for any reason other than "cause," death or disability, or (ii) an executive terminates his employment for "good reason," the executive will be entitled to receive the following compensation and benefits:
     Each executive is also entitled to customary executive benefits under their employment agreements, and are subject to customary post-employment restrictive covenants. Further information concerning Messrs. Kennedy, Carbiener and Swenson is included in the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 15, 2008.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


