FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20090622104951.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
     On June 22, 2009, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. and Metavante Technologies, Inc. issued a joint press release announcing that they have each received a request for additional information and documentary material, often referred to as a "Second Request," from the United States Department of Justice under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, in connection with their proposed merger announced on April 1, 2009. A copy of the joint press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements And Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Press Release
Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (NYSE: FIS) and Metavante Technologies, Inc. (NYSE: MV) today announced that the companies have each received a request for additional information and documentary material, often referred to as a "Second Request," from the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) in connection with their proposed merger announced on April 1, 2009.
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. and MILWAUKEE, June 22, 2009 
The Second Request from the DOJ is a procedure in the regulatory process under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 ("HSR Act"). FIS and Metavante are in the process of gathering information responsive to the Second Request, and are working cooperatively with the DOJ as it reviews the merger. The effect of the Second Request is to extend the waiting period imposed by the HSR Act until 30 days after FIS and Metavante substantially comply with the Second Request, unless that period is extended voluntarily by the parties or terminated sooner by the DOJ. The proposed merger remains subject to customary conditions, including shareholder approval. Both companies expect the merger to close during the fourth quarter of 2009.
About Fidelity National Information Services, Inc.
Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (NYSE: FIS) is a leading provider of core processing for financial institutions; card issuer and transaction processing services; and outsourcing services to financial institutions and retailers. FIS has processing and technology relationships with 40 of the top 50 global banks, including nine of the top 10. FIS is a member of the S&P 500 Index and has been ranked the number one banking technology provider in the world by American Banker and the research firm Financial Insights in the annual FinTech 100 rankings. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Fla., FIS maintains a strong global presence, serving more than 14,000 financial institutions in more than 90 countries worldwide. For more information on FIS, please visit www.fidelityinfoservices.com.
About Metavante
Metavante Technologies, Inc. (NYSE: MV) is the parent company of Metavante Corporation. Metavante Corporation delivers banking and payments technologies to approximately 8,000 financial services firms and businesses worldwide. Metavante products and services drive
 
account processing for deposit, loan and trust systems, image-based and conventional check processing, electronic funds transfer, consumer healthcare payments, electronic presentment and payment, outsourcing, and payment network solutions including the NYCE Network, a leading ATM/PIN debit network. Metavante (www.metavante.com) is headquartered in Milwaukee. Metavante and NYCE are registered trademarks of Metavante Corporation, which is the principal subsidiary of Metavante Technologies, Inc.
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains statements related to FIS's and Metavante's future plans and expectations, and, as such, constitutes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown events, risks, uncertainties and other factors that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause actual results to be different from those expressed within this press release. The material risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations include, without limitation, the following: (i) effect of governmental regulations, including the possibility that there are unexpected delays in obtaining regulatory approvals; (ii) the failure to obtain approval of FIS's and Metavante's shareholders; and (iii) other risks detailed from time to time in the reports and filings made by FIS and Metavante with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") that are available on the SEC's web site located at http://www.sec.gov. Readers are strongly urged to read the full cautionary statements contained in those materials. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
Additional Information and Where to Find It
In connection with the proposed transactions, FIS and Metavante have filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that includes a preliminary version of a joint proxy statement of FIS and Metavante that also constitutes a preliminary prospectus of FIS. The S-4 has not yet become effective. Following the S-4 being declared effective by the SEC, FIS and Metavante intend to mail the final joint proxy statement/prospectus to their respective shareholders. Such final documents, however, are not currently available.
Investors and security holders are urged to read these documents (if and when they become available) and any other relevant documents filed with the SEC, as well as any amendments or supplements to those documents, because they will contain important information about FIS, Metavante and the proposed transactions.
Investors and security holders may obtain these documents (and any other documents filed by FIS or Metavante with the SEC) free of charge at the SEC's website at . In addition, the documents filed with the SEC by FIS may be obtained free of charge by directing such request to: Investor Relations, 601 Riverside Drive, Jacksonville, FL 32204, or from FIS' Investor Relations page on its corporate website at . The documents filed with the SEC by Metavante may be obtained free of charge by directing such request to: Investor Relations, 4900 West Brown Deer Road, Milwaukee, WI 53223 or from Metavante's Investor Relations page on its corporate website at
www.sec.gov
www.fidelityinfoservices.com
www.metavante.com.
 
Participants in the Solicitation
FIS, Metavante and their respective executive officers, directors and certain other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from the shareholders of Metavante and FIS in favor of the proposed transactions. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be considered participants in the solicitation of the shareholders in connection with the proposed transactions will be set forth in the joint proxy statement/prospectus when it is filed with the SEC. Information about the executive officers and directors of FIS and their ownership of FIS common stock is set forth in the proxy statement for FIS's 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 15, 2009. Information about the executive officers and directors of Metavante and their ownership of Metavante common stock is set forth in Metavante's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was filed with the SEC on February 20, 2009, as amended by the Annual Report on Form 10-K/A (Amendment No. 1) for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was filed with the SEC on April 30, 2009.
Contacts
Mary K. Waggoner, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations, FIS +1-904-854-3282, or Marcia Danzeisen, Senior Vice President Marketing and Corporate Communications, FIS +1-904-854-5083; Kirk Larsen, Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations of Metavante Corporation, +1-414-357-3553, or Chip Swearngan, Vice President, Corporate Communications, of Metavante Corporation, +1-414-357-3688


