FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20091105143918.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On October 30, 2009 (the ""), Frank R. Sanchez entered into an amended and restated Employment Agreement with Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. ("") (the ""), which amended, restated, superseded and replaced Mr. Sanchez's prior employment agreement with FIS, dated May 1, 2008 (the ""). As stated in the New Sanchez Agreement, its purpose is to amend and restate the Prior Sanchez Agreement, as well as all prior agreements between FIS, and any of its affiliates, and Mr. Sanchez relating to the subject matter of the New Sanchez Agreement, to recognize Mr. Sanchez's significant contributions to the overall financial performance and success of FIS, to protect FIS' business interests through the addition of restrictive covenants, to assure FIS of the services of Mr. Sanchez following the Effective Date, and to provide a single integrated document which shall provide the basis for Mr. Sanchez's continued employment by FIS. A description of the Prior Sanchez Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to FIS' annual proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") on April 15, 2009 and is qualified by reference to the Prior Sanchez Agreement filed with the Commission on February 27, 2009 as Exhibit 10.57 to FIS' annual report on Form 10-K.
Effective Date
FIS
New Sanchez Agreement
Prior Sanchez Agreement
Commission
     The following summary of the New Sanchez Agreement is not complete, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the New Sanchez Agreement filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference. In the event of any conflict between the following summary and the full text of the New Sanchez Agreement, the text of the New Sanchez Agreement shall control.
     The New Sanchez Agreement is generally similar to the Prior Sanchez Agreement except in the following respects:
     Pursuant to the New Sanchez Agreement, Mr. Sanchez will be employed by FIS as its Corporate Executive Vice President  Strategic Solutions, or in such other capacity as may be agreed by Mr. Sanchez and FIS, and will report to FIS' Chief Executive Officer. The New Sanchez Agreement provides for an initial term of three years from the Effective Date, and the term will automatically extend for an additional one year on each anniversary of the Effective Date unless either party gives written notice prior to the extension date before such extension would be effectuated. Mr. Sanchez will receive an annual base salary of $615,000 per year and be eligible for an annual bonus under FIS' annual bonus plan with a target bonus opportunity of not less than 150% of Mr. Sanchez's annual base salary, and a maximum bonus opportunity of up to 300% of Mr. Sanchez's annual base salary. During the term of his employment, Mr. Sanchez generally will be entitled to all employee benefits (including medical and other insurance coverage) and incentive opportunities customarily made available to other
 
Corporate Executive Vice Presidents, as well as supplemental disability insurance and eligibility to participate in FIS' equity incentive plans.
     In the event that Mr. Sanchez's employment is terminated by FIS without "Cause" or by Mr. Sanchez for "Good Reason" (each, as defined in the New Sanchez Agreement), Mr. Sanchez will be entitled to receive:
     In the event that Mr. Sanchez's employment is terminated due to death or "Disability" (as defined in the New Sanchez Agreement), FIS will pay Mr. Sanchez (or, in the event of death, his estate or personal representative) any accrued obligations, a prorated annual bonus based on Mr. Sanchez's target "Annual Bonus Opportunity" (as defined in the New Sanchez Agreement), and the unpaid portion of his annual base salary that would have been paid for the remainder of the employment term.
     In the event that Mr. Sanchez's employment is terminated by the Company for Cause or by Mr. Sanchez without Good Reason, Mr. Sanchez will be entitled to any accrued obligations incurred prior to his termination.
     Mr. Sanchez's agreement also provides FIS and its shareholders with the following protections and rights:
 
(a) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
     THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is effective as of October 30, 2009 (the "Effective Date"), by and between a Georgia corporation (the "Company"), and (the "Employee"). In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth herein, the parties agree as follows:
FIDELITY NATIONAL INFORMATION SERVICES, INC.,
FRANK R. SANCHEZ
     1. . The purpose of this Agreement is to amend and restate all prior agreements between Company, and any of its affiliates, and Employee relating to the subject matter of this Agreement (including, without limitation, the Employment Agreement dated as of May 1, 2008 by and between Company and Employee), to recognize Employee's significant contributions to the overall financial performance and success of Company, to protect Company's business interests through the addition of restrictive covenants, to assure Company of the services of Employee following the Effective Date, and to provide a single, integrated document which shall provide the basis for Employee's continued employment by Company. In consideration of the execution of this Agreement and the amendment and restatement of all such prior agreements, the parties each release all rights and claims that they have, had or may have arising under such prior agreements.
Purpose and Release
     2. . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Company employs Employee to serve as Corporate EVP, Strategic Solutions, or in such other capacity as may be mutually agreed by the parties. Employee accepts such employment and agrees to undertake and discharge the duties, functions and responsibilities commensurate with the aforesaid position and such other duties and responsibilities as may be prescribed from time to time by the Chief Executive Officer (the "CEO") or the Board of Directors of Company (the "Board"). Except as expressly provided in this Agreement, Employee shall devote substantially all business time, attention and effort to the performance of duties hereunder, and shall not engage in any business, profession or occupation, for compensation or otherwise without the express written consent of the CEO or Board, other than personal, personal investment, charitable, or civic activities or other matters that do not conflict with Employee's duties.
Employment and Duties
     3. . The term of this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and shall continue for a period of three (3) years ending on the third anniversary of the Effective Date or, if later, ending on the last day of any extension made pursuant to the next sentence, subject to prior termination as set forth in Section 8 (such term, including any extensions pursuant to the next sentence, the "Employment Term"). The Employment Term shall be extended automatically for one (1) additional year on the first anniversary of the Effective Date and for an additional year each anniversary thereafter unless and until either party gives written notice to the other not to extend the Employment Term before such extension would be effectuated.
Term
     4. . During the Employment Term, Company shall pay Employee an annual base salary, before deducting all applicable withholdings, of no less than $615,000 per year, payable at the time and in the manner dictated by Company's standard payroll policies. Such minimum annual base salary may be periodically reviewed and increased (but not decreased without Employee's express written consent) at the discretion of the CEO, Board or Compensation Committee of the Board (the "Committee") to reflect, among other matters, cost
Salary
 
of living increases and performance results (such annual base salary, including any increases, the "Annual Base Salary").
     5. . In addition to any executive bonus, pension, deferred compensation and long-term incentive plans which Company or an affiliate of Company may from time to time make available to Employee, Employee shall be entitled to the following during the Employment Term:
Other Compensation and Fringe Benefits
     6. . For and during each calendar year within the Employment Term, Employee shall be entitled to reasonable paid vacation periods and holidays consistent with Employee's position and in accordance with Company's standard policies, or as the CEO, Board or Committee may approve.
Vacation
     7. . In addition to the compensation and benefits provided herein, Company shall, upon receipt of appropriate documentation, reimburse Employee each month for reasonable travel, lodging, entertainment, promotion and other ordinary and necessary
Expense Reimbursement
 
business expenses incurred during the Employment Term to the extent such reimbursement is permitted under Company's expense reimbursement policy.
     8. . Company or Employee may terminate Employee's employment at any time and for any reason in accordance with Subsection (a) below. The Employment Term shall be deemed to have ended on the last day of Employee's employment. The Employment Term shall terminate automatically upon Employee's death.
Termination of Employment
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Employee being placed on a paid leave for up to sixty (60) days pending a determination of whether there is a basis to terminate Employee for Cause shall not constitute Good Reason. Employee's continued employment shall not constitute consent to, or a waiver of rights with respect to, any act or failure to act constituting Good Reason hereunder; provided, however, that no such event described above shall constitute Good Reason unless: (1) Employee gives Notice of Termination to Company specifying the condition or event relied upon for such termination within ninety (90) days of the initial existence of such event and (2) Company fails to cure the condition or event constituting Good Reason within thirty (30) days following receipt of Employee's Notice of Termination (the "Cure Period"). In the event that
 
Company fails to remedy the condition constituting Good Reason during the applicable Cure Period, Employee's "separation from service" (within the meaning of Section 409A) must occur, if at all, within one-hundred fifty (150) days following such Cure Period in order for such termination as a result of such condition to constitute a termination for Good Reason.
     9. .
Obligations of Company Upon Termination
 
 
     10. . The obligations, rights and benefits of Employee hereunder are personal and may not be delegated, assigned or transferred in any manner whatsoever, nor are such obligations, rights or benefits subject to involuntary alienation, assignment or transfer.
Non-Delegation of Employee's Rights
     11. . Employee will occupy a position of trust and confidence and will have access to and learn substantial information about Company and its affiliates and their operations that is confidential or not generally known in the industry including, without limitation, information that relates to purchasing, sales, customers, marketing, and the financial positions and financing arrangements of Company and its affiliates. Employee agrees that all such information is proprietary or confidential, or constitutes trade secrets and is the sole property of Company and/or its affiliates, as the case may be. Employee will keep confidential, and will not reproduce, copy or disclose to any other person or firm, any such information or any documents or information relating to Company's or its affiliates' methods, processes, customers, accounts, analyses, systems, charts, programs, procedures, correspondence or records, or any other documents used or owned by Company or any of its affiliates, nor will Employee advise, discuss with or in any way assist any other person, firm or entity in obtaining or learning about any of the items described in this section. Accordingly, during the Employment Term and at all times thereafter Employee will not disclose, or permit or encourage anyone else to disclose, any such information, nor will Employee utilize any such information, either alone or with others, outside the scope of Employee's duties and responsibilities with Company and its affiliates.
Confidential Information
     12. .
Non-Competition
 
     13. . Upon termination of the Employment Term, Employee shall return immediately to Company all records and documents of or pertaining to Company or its affiliates and shall not make or retain any copy or extract of any such record or document, or any other property of Company or its affiliates.
Return of Company Documents
     14. . Any and all improvements or inventions that Employee may make or participate in during the Employment Term, unless wholly unrelated to the business of Company and its affiliates and not produced within the scope of Employee's employment hereunder, shall be the sole and exclusive property of Company. Employee shall, whenever requested by Company, execute and deliver any and all documents that Company deems appropriate in order to apply for and obtain patents or copyrights in improvements or inventions or in order to assign and/or convey to Company the sole and exclusive right, title and interest in and to such improvements, inventions, patents, copyrights or applications.
Improvements and Inventions
     15. . The parties agree and acknowledge that the rights conveyed by this Agreement are of a unique and special nature and that Company will not have an adequate remedy at law in the event of a failure by Employee to abide by its terms and conditions, nor will money damages adequately compensate for such injury. Therefore, in the event of a breach of this Agreement by Employee, Company shall have the right, among other rights, to damages sustained thereby and to obtain an injunction or decree of specific performance from a court of competent jurisdiction to restrain or compel Employee to perform as agreed herein. Notwithstanding any termination of this Agreement or Employee's employment, Section 9 shall remain in effect until all obligations and benefits resulting from a termination of Employee's employment during the Term are satisfied. In addition, Sections 10 through 26 shall survive the termination of this Agreement or Employee's employment and shall remain in effect for the periods specified therein or, if no period is specified, until all obligations thereunder have been satisfied. Nothing in this Agreement shall in any way limit or exclude any other right granted by law or equity to Company.
Actions and Survival
 
     16. . Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, Company may require that, prior to payment, distribution or other benefit under this Agreement (other than due to Employee's death), Employee shall have executed a complete release of Company and its affiliates and related parties in such form as is reasonably required by Company, and any waiting periods contained in such release shall have expired. With respect to any release required to receive payments, distributions or other benefits owed pursuant to this Agreement, Company must provide Employee with the form of release no later than seven (7) days after the Date of Termination and the release must be signed by Employee and returned to Company, unchanged, effective and irrevocable, no later than sixty (60) days after the Date of Termination.
Release
     17. . Company agrees that, if Employee's employment hereunder is terminated during the Employment Term, Employee is not required to seek other employment or to attempt in any way to reduce any amounts payable to Employee by Company hereunder. Further, the amount of any payment or benefit provided for hereunder shall not be reduced by any compensation earned by Employee as the result of employment by another employer, by retirement benefits or otherwise.
No Mitigation
     18. . This Agreement embodies the entire agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter of this Agreement, and supersedes and replaces all prior agreements, understandings and commitments with respect to such subject matter. This Agreement may be amended only by a written document signed by both parties to this Agreement.
Entire Agreement and Amendment
     19. . This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Florida, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of this Agreement to the substantive law of another jurisdiction. Any litigation pertaining to this Agreement shall be adjudicated in courts located in Duval County, Florida.
Governing Law
     20. . This Agreement may not be assigned by Employee. In addition to any obligations imposed by law upon any successor to Company, Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the stock, business and/or assets of Company, to expressly assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. Failure of Company to obtain such assumption by a successor shall be a material breach of this Agreement. Employee agrees and consents to any such assumption by a successor of Company, as well as any assignment of this Agreement by Company for that purpose. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean Company as herein before defined as well as any such successor that expressly assumes this Agreement or otherwise becomes bound by all of its terms and provisions by operation of law. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties and their permitted successors or assigns. Any references herein to compensation and benefits paid or provided, or to be paid or provided, by Company shall be interpreted as including compensation and benefits paid or provided, or to be paid or provided, by Company affiliates. Company's obligations hereunder may be satisfied by any of Company's affiliates.
Successors and Affiliates
 
     21. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
     22. . If any party finds it necessary to employ legal counsel or to bring an action at law or other proceedings against the other party to interpret or enforce any of the terms hereof, the party prevailing in any such action or other proceeding shall be promptly paid by the other party its reasonable legal fees, court costs and litigation expenses, all as determined by the court and not a jury, and such payment shall be made by the non-prevailing party within sixty (60) days of the date the right to the payment amount is so determined; provided, however, that following Employees' termination of employment with Company, if any party finds it necessary to employ legal counsel or to bring an action at law or other proceedings against the other party to interpret or enforce any of the terms hereof, Company shall pay (on an ongoing basis) to Employee to the fullest extent permitted by law, all legal fees, court costs and litigation expenses reasonably incurred by Employee or others on Employee's behalf (such amounts collectively referred to as the "Reimbursed Amounts"); provided, further, that Employee shall reimburse Company for the Reimbursed Amounts if it is determined that a majority of Employee's claims or defenses were frivolous or without merit. Requests for payment of Reimbursed Amounts, together with all documents required by Company to substantiate them, must be submitted to Company no later than ninety (90) days after the expense was incurred. The Reimbursed Amounts shall be paid by Company within ninety (90) days after receiving the request and all substantiating documents requested from Employee. The rights under this section shall survive the termination of employment and this Agreement until the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations.
Attorneys' Fees
     23. . If any section, subsection or provision hereof is found for any reason whatsoever to be invalid or inoperative, that section, subsection or provision shall be deemed severable and shall not affect the force and validity of any other provision of this Agreement. If any covenant herein is determined by a court to be overly broad thereby making the covenant unenforceable, the parties agree and it is their desire that such court shall substitute a reasonable judicially enforceable limitation in place of the offensive part of the covenant and that as so modified the covenant shall be as fully enforceable as if set forth herein by the parties themselves in the modified form. The covenants of Employee in this Agreement shall each be construed as an agreement independent of any other provision in this Agreement, and the existence of any claim or cause of action of Employee against Company, whether predicated on this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by Company of the covenants in this Agreement.
Severability
     24. . Any notice, request, or instruction to be given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given when personally delivered or three (3) days after being sent by United States Certified Mail, postage prepaid, with Return Receipt Requested, to the parties at their respective addresses set forth below:
Notices
     To Company:
Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. 601 Riverside Avenue
 
Jacksonville, FL 32204 Attention: General Counsel
     To Employee:
At the most recent address on file at Company
     25. . The waiver by any party of any provisions of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any prior or subsequent breach by the other party.
Waiver of Breach
     26. .
Tax
 
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed this Agreement to be effective as of the date first set forth above.


