FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20100720162334.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 20, 2010, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the Second Quarter of 2010. The information included in Items 2.02 and 9.01 within this Current Report are being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information included in Items 2.02 and 9.01 within this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the financial results presentation is attached as Exhibit 99.2
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Second Quarter Highlights:
(NYSE:FIS), one of the world's largest providers of banking and payments technology, today reported financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2010. For comparative purposes, references to pro forma measures for 2009 assume that the October 1, 2009 merger with Metavante Technologies, Inc. was completed on January 1, 2009 and reflect adjustments in a manner consistent with 2010 adjusted results.
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., July 20, 2010 
FIS
Adjusted revenue (which excludes a $5 million negative impact to deferred revenue from purchase accounting) increased 2.4% to $1.29 billion in U.S. dollars in the second quarter of 2010 compared to pro forma revenue of $1.26 billion in the second quarter of 2009, and increased 1.7% in constant currency. Adjusted EBITDA was $385.8 million, 7.2% higher as compared to pro forma EBITDA of $359.8 million in the prior year quarter. The adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 140 basis points to 29.9% driven primarily by synergy cost savings. Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations totaled $176.5 million, or $0.46 per diluted share. Adjusted free cash flow totaled $108 million in the second quarter. On a GAAP basis, second quarter consolidated revenue totaled $1.286 billion. During the quarter, FIS recorded after-tax merger and integration costs and recapitalization costs totaling $41.2 million, or $0.11 per share. The deferred revenue adjustment impacted after-tax earnings by $3.3 million, or $0.01 per share. These combined charges, along with purchase price amortization of intangible assets acquired through various acquisitions, resulted in GAAP net earnings from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders of $90.2 million, or $0.23 per diluted share.
"We are pleased with the solid second quarter operating results, and we remain focused on the goals that we established early in the year," stated Frank R. Martire, president and chief executive officer of FIS. "Importantly, we are winning in the marketplace and continue to further strengthen our industry leading position."
"The Metavante integration is proceeding according to plan, and we are well on our way to achieving the $260 million in targeted synergy cost savings," added William P. Foley, II, executive chairman of FIS. "In addition, we have successfully completed the financing for the previously announced recapitalization plan and we are on track to complete the share repurchase in early August."
The financing condition to FIS' previously announced tender offer for shares of its common stock was satisfied by the completion of the financing announced by FIS on July 16, 2010.
 
Acquisitions and Discontinued Operations
On October 1, 2009, FIS completed the acquisition of Metavante Technologies, Inc. The transaction was treated as a purchase and the results of Metavante are included in the consolidated results of FIS beginning October 1, 2009. For comparative purposes, in accordance with management's desire to improve the understanding of the company's operating performance, the supplemental information provided below assumes the merger was completed on January 1, 2009 and combines Metavante's results with FIS's historical results on a pro forma basis.
In addition, FIS completed the sale of its ClearPar automated syndicated loan trade settlement business on January 1, 2010. The results of ClearPar are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
Supplemental Information
The following supplemental information is presented on an adjusted pro forma basis, which management believes provides meaningful comparisons between the periods presented. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to related GAAP measures are provided in the attached schedules and in the Investor Relations section of the FIS Web site, www.fisglobal.com.
Consolidated second quarter revenue increased 2.4% to $1.291 billion in U.S. dollars, compared with $1.261 billion in the second quarter of 2009. Excluding a $9.2 million favorable foreign currency impact, consolidated revenue increased 1.7%.
      Financial Solutions revenue increased 3.0% to $458.3 million compared to $445.0 million in the 2009 quarter driven by higher professional services revenue and software license fees.
      Payment Solutions revenue of $630.6 million was comparable to $631.1 million in the 2009 quarter as growth in electronic payment solutions was offset by lower item processing and retail check activity.
      International Solutions revenue increased 8.0% to $200.7 million in U.S. dollars, and 3.1% in constant currency compared to $185.8 million in the 2009 quarter. The increase was driven primarily by increased card processing volumes in Brazil. Software and professional services revenue was comparable to prior year.
Adjusted EBITDA increased 7.2% to $385.8 million in the second quarter of 2010 compared to $359.8 million in the 2009 quarter. The adjusted EBITDA margin improved 140 basis points to 29.9% compared to 28.5% in the prior-year quarter, driven primarily by the realization of synergy cost savings and ongoing expense management.
      Financial Solutions EBITDA increased 5.0% to $200.6 million, while the margin improved 90 basis points to 43.8% compared to 42.9% in the prior year quarter.
      Payment Solutions EBITDA increased 4.0% to $232.3 million, and the margin increased 140 basis points to 36.8% compared to 35.4% in the prior year.
      International EBITDA increased 1.1% to $36.4 million. The currency impact was not material to EBITDA. The reported EBITDA margin was 18.1%, and 19.0% in constant currency, compared to 19.4% in the prior year quarter.
 
Balance Sheet
FIS had $502 million in cash and cash equivalents and total debt outstanding of approximately $3.0 billion at June 30, 2010.
Capital expenditures totaled $76.0 million in the quarter, compared to $78.9 million in pro forma capital expenditures in the prior year.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) is the term used to refer to the standard framework of guidelines for financial accounting. GAAP includes the standards, conventions, and rules accountants follow in recording and summarizing transactions and in the preparation of financial statements. In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with GAAP, the company has provided non-GAAP financial measures, which it believes are useful to help investors better understand its financial performance, competitive position and prospects for the future. These non-GAAP measures include adjusted revenue, adjusted earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), adjusted net earnings, and adjusted free cash flow. Adjusted revenue excludes the impact of deferred revenue purchase accounting. Adjusted EBITDA excludes the impact of merger and acquisition and integration expenses, accelerated stock compensation charges associated with merger and acquisition activity, costs associated with the announced recapitalization plan, and certain other costs. Adjusted net earnings exclude the after-tax impact of merger and acquisition and integration expenses, accelerated stock compensation charges associated with merger and acquisition activity, costs associated with the announced recapitalization plan, acquisition related amortization and certain other costs. Adjusted free cash flow is GAAP operating cash flow less capital expenditures, acquisition related cash items and cash items associated with the announced recapitalization plan. Non-GAAP adjustments are recorded in the Corporate and Other segment and do not impact operating segment results. Any non-GAAP measures should be considered in context with the GAAP financial presentation and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP net earnings. Further, FIS' non-GAAP measures may be calculated differently from similarly titled measures of other companies. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to related GAAP measures are provided in the attached schedules and in the Investor Relations section of the FIS Web site, www.fisglobal.com.
Conference Call and Webcast
FIS will host a call with investors and analysts to discuss second quarter 2010 results on Tuesday, July 20, 2010 beginning at 5:00 p.m. Eastern daylight time. To register for the live event and to access a supplemental slide presentation, go to the Investor Relations section at www.fisglobal.com and click on "News and Events." A webcast replay will be available on FIS' Investor Relations website, and a telephone replay will be available through August 3, 2010, by dialing 800-475-6701(USA) or 320-365-3844 (International). The access code will be 163692. To access a PDF version of this release and accompanying financial tables, go to .
http://www.investor.fisglobal.com
About FIS
FIS delivers banking and payments technologies to more than 14,000 financial institutions and businesses in over 100 countries worldwide. FIS provides financial institution core processing, and card issuer and transaction processing services, including the NYCE Network. FIS is a member of Standard and Poor's (S&P) 500 Index and consistently holds a leading ranking in the annual
 
FinTech 100 rankings. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Fla., FIS employs more than 30,000 on a global basis. FIS is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the "FIS" ticker symbol. For more information about FIS see .
www.fisglobal.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release and today's conference call contain statements related to FIS' future plans and expectations and, as such, constitutes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about 2010 adjusted earnings per share, margin expansion and cash flow, as well as other statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Because such statements are based on expectations as to future economic performance and are not statements of fact, actual results may differ materially from those projected. The risks and uncertainties that forward-looking statements are subject to, include, without limitation: changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including changes in the financial markets; the effect of governmental regulations; the effects of our substantial leverage, which may limit the funds available to make acquisitions and invest in our business; the risk of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures suffered by firms in those industries; failures to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace; the failure to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect from the acquisition of Metavante, including the possibility that our acquisition of Metavante may not be accretive to our earnings due to undisclosed liabilities, management or integration issues, loss of customers, the inability to achieve targeted synergy cost savings, or other factors; our potential inability to find suitable acquisition candidates or difficulties in integrating acquisitions; competitive pressures on product pricing and services; and other risks detailed in the "Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information," "Risk Factors" and other sections of the Company's Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") that are available on the SEC's Web site located at . All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available at the time of the document. FIS undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
www.sec.gov
FIS-e
SOURCE: Fidelity National Information Services, Inc.
CONTACTS: Mary Waggoner, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, 904-854-3282, ; Marcia Danzeisen, Senior Vice President, Marketing and Corporate Communications, 904-854-5083, .
mary.waggoner@fisglobal.com
marcia.danzeisen@fisglobal.com
 
 
Exhibit A
 
 
Exhibit B
 
Exhibit C
 
Exhibit D
1. Revenue, Operating Income and EBITDA
 
Exhibit D
1. Revenue, Operating Income and EBITDA
 
Exhibit D
 
Cash flows generated by Metavante Operations are included prospectively beginning October 1, 2009 in the consolidated cash flows for FIS.
 
Exhibit E
 
Exhibit E
 
See accompanying notes.
 
Exhibit E
 
See accompanying notes.
 
Exhibit E
 
See accompanying notes.
GAAP results include Metavante's operating results in the consolidated results of FIS beginning October 1, 2009 on a prospective basis.
 
Exhibit E
 
See accompanying notes.
GAAP results include Metavante's operating results in the consolidated results of FIS beginning October 1, 2009 on a prospective basis.
 
Notes to Unaudited  Supplemental GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation for the Three and Six Months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009
The adjustments are as follows:

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


