FILE:FIS/FIS-8K-20100907090340.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 7, 2010, FIS made available presentation materials (the "Presentation Materials") to be used by FIS at an investor and analyst conference on September 7, 2010. A copy of the Presentation Materials is included as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this report, including the Presentation Materials, is being "furnished" pursuant to General Instruction F to Current Report on Form 8-K, and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this report, including the Presentation Materials, shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other documents pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or into any filing or other document pursuant to the Exchange Act except as otherwise expressly stated in any such filing.
Forward-Looking Statements
The Presentation Materials contains statements related to FIS' future plans and expectations and, as such, constitutes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Because such statements are based on expectations as to future economic performance and are not statements of fact, actual results may differ materially from those projected. The risks and uncertainties that forward-looking statements are subject to, include, without limitation: changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including changes in both domestic and international financial markets; the effect of governmental regulation and/or changes in industry requirements; the effects of our substantial leverage, which may limit the funds available to make acquisitions and invest in our business; the risk of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures suffered by firms in those industries; failures to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace; the failure to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect from the acquisition of Metavante, including the possibility that our acquisition of Metavante may not be accretive to our earnings due to undisclosed liabilities, management or integration issues, loss of customers, the inability to achieve targeted synergy cost savings, or other factors; our potential inability to find suitable acquisition candidates or difficulties in integrating acquisitions; competitive pressures on product pricing and service including the ability to attract new or retain existing customers; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers and other risks detailed in the "Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information," "Risk Factors" and other sections of the Company's Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission that are located at www.sec.gov. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available at the time of the document. FIS assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


