FILE:CB/CB-8K-20031202172906.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
 
 
Item 5. Other Events.
On December 1, 2003, The Chubb Corporation (Corporation) and John D. Finnegan, the Corporation's President and Chief Executive Officer, entered into amendments to their Employment Agreement, dated January 21, 2003, and their Change In Control Employment Agreement, dated January 21, 2003.
The Corporation is filing copies of the amendments to Mr. Finnegan's Employment Agreement and Change In Control Employment Agreement as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, hereto. These exhibits are incorporated by reference into this Item 5 as if fully set forth herein.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
     The Chubb Corporation (the "Corporation") and John D. Finnegan (the "Executive") hereby agree to amend the Employment Agreement (the "Agreement") dated January 21, 2003 by and between the Corporation and Executive as follows:
     the Executive has hereunto set the Executive's hand and, pursuant to the authorization from its Board of Directors, the Corporation has caused these presents to be executed in its name and on its behalf, all as of December 1, 2003.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
Exhibit A
     , pursuant to the provisions of The Chubb Corporation Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan (2000) (the "Plan"), John D. Finnegan (the "Participant") was previously granted an award (the "Previous Award") of 61,617 shares of restricted stock of The Chubb Corporation (the "Corporation"), 30,809 of which have vested; and
WHEREAS
     , the Participant desires to defer until the termination of his employment with the Corporation the settlement of the value of the 30,808 shares remaining outstanding under the Previous Award and the Corporation desires to allow the deferral of such settlement until the termination of the Participant's employment with the Corporation by having the Participant forfeit the remaining shares subject to the Previous Award in exchange for a grant of 30,808 Restricted Stock Units (the "Award"), on the terms and subject to the conditions of this Restricted Stock Unit Agreement.
WHEREAS
     , the Participant and Corporation agree as follows:
NOW THEREFORE
 
 
 
 
     the Corporation by its duly authorized officer, and the Participant have executed this Agreement in duplicate as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
Exhibit B
 
 
     . The Award and the legal relations between the parties shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of New York.
10. Governing Law

 
Exhibit 10.2
     The Chubb Corporation (the "Corporation") and John D. Finnegan (the "Executive") hereby agree to amend the Change in Control Employment Agreement (the "Change in Control Agreement") dated January 21, 2003 by and between the Corporation and Executive as follows:
     Section 5(a)(3) of the Change in Control Agreement is hereby amended to add the words "restricted stock unit" immediately after the reference to "restricted stock".
     , the Executive has hereunto set the Executive's hand and, pursuant to the authorization from its Board of Directors, the Corporation has caused these presents to be executed in its name and on its behalf, all as of December 1, 2003.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF


