FILE:CB/CB-8K-20040727161315.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information, including the text of the exhibits attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to this Item 12 of Form 8-K. On July 27, 2004, The Chubb Corporation (Chubb) issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter ended June 30, 2004. On July 27, 2004, Chubb also posted the Supplementary Investor Information Report (SIIR) relating to its second quarter results on its web site at www.chubb.com. Copies of the press release and the SIIR are attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively. In its earnings release, the SIIR and in the conference call to discuss its 2004 second quarter results, scheduled to be webcast at 5:00 on July 27, 2004, Chubb presents, and will present, its results of operations in the manner that it believes is most meaningful to investors, which includes certain measures that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, as more fully described in the press release and SIIR furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference into this Item 12 as if fully set forth herein.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
15 Mountain View Road  -  P.O. Box 1615 Warren, New Jersey 07061-1615 Telephone: 908-903-2000
The Chubb Corporation
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     WARREN, New Jersey, July 27, 2004  The Chubb Corporation [NYSE: CB] today reported that net income in the second quarter of 2004 was $356.1 million, a 41% increase over net income of $252.1 million in the second quarter of 2003. Net income per share increased 28% to $1.85 from $1.45.
     Operating income, which the company defines as net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses, increased 43% in the second quarter of 2004 to a record $341.0 million from $238.6 million in the second quarter of 2003. Operating income per share grew 29% to $1.77 from $1.37.
     "We are delighted with our continued strong financial performance," said John D. Finnegan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "Operating income per share was the highest of any quarter in Chubb's history, reflecting strong premium growth, favorable loss experience and successful expense control initiatives. These results  following record first quarter results  validate our focus on executing our core property and casualty strategy of maintaining underwriting discipline, growing the business profitably by leveraging strong producer relationships, and reducing our expense structure."
     Highlights of the second quarter include:
 
     Property and casualty net premiums written in the second quarter of 2004 grew 12% both in the U.S. and outside the U.S. Expressed in local currencies, non-U.S. premiums grew 5%. Premiums for Chubb Re accounted for 2 percentage points of Chubb's 12% worldwide growth.
     Catastrophe losses for the 2004 second quarter (excluding the reserve release related to the September 11th attack) were $45.7 million, accounting for 1.6 percentage points of the combined ratio. In the second quarter of 2003, catastrophe losses were $70.6 million, representing 2.8 percentage points of the combined ratio.
     Second quarter operating income for 2004 includes an after-tax loss of $2 million or $0.01 per share for the non-insurance business of CFS, compared to a loss of $4 million or $0.02 per share in the second quarter of 2003.
Six Month Results
     For the first six months of 2004, net income was a record $716.8 million or $3.73 per share, compared with $476.7 million or $2.76 per share for the first half of 2003. Operating income totaled a record $649.1 million or $3.38 per share for the first half of 2004, compared with $460.3 million or $2.66 per share for the first half of 2003. Results for the first six months of 2004 include an after-tax loss of $11 million or $0.06 per share from CFS, compared with after-tax income of $5 million or $0.03 per share in the first half of 2003.
     Property and casualty net premiums written in the first six months of 2004 increased 12% to $5.9 billion. The combined ratio for the first half was 92.7% in 2004 and 95.3% in 2003. Catastrophe losses for the 2004 first half (excluding the September 11th reserve release) were $142.4 million, or 2.5 percentage points of the combined ratio. In the first half of 2003, catastrophe losses were $165.5 million, accounting for 3.4 percentage points of the combined ratio. The expense ratio for the first six months improved to 29.8% from 30.5%.
 
Outlook for 2004
     "In light of first half operating earnings of $3.44 per share excluding CFS and our expectation of continued strong performance, we are raising guidance for full-year 2004 operating earnings per share to a range of $6.80 to $7.20," said Mr. Finnegan. The company's previous guidance, provided on February 3, 2004, was $5.90 to $6.30 per share. Both the original and revised guidance exclude realized investment gains and losses, exclude results from CFS and assume 3 percentage points of catastrophe losses for the year.
     Mr. Finnegan said the revised operating income guidance assumes:
     Mr. Finnegan said he expects 2004 net written premium growth for the full year to be at the low end of the previous guidance of 10% to 14%. In the first half of 2004, net written premiums grew 12%, aided by currency translation related to Chubb's non-U.S. operations and significant growth of Chubb Re premiums compared to its premiums in the first half of 2003. The favorable year-over-year comparison for Chubb Re is not expected to recur in the second half of 2004, resulting in somewhat lower net written premium growth for Chubb in the second half.
     "On a business unit basis," said Mr. Finnegan, "updated guidance for 2004 is for net written premium growth of 11% to 13% for CCI and 8% to 10% for both CSI and CPI. This represents a slight increase in expected CCI growth, more than offset by lower CSI growth. The revised CSI forecast reflects lower than expected full year growth in the Executive Protection (EP) segment but higher growth in EP in the second half than in the first half."
Second Quarter Operations Review
     net written premiums grew 14% in the second quarter to $1.1 billion. The combined ratio improved to 79.0% from 91.6% in the corresponding quarter a year ago. Catastrophe losses (excluding the $30 million of the September 11th reserve release which is attributable to CCI Casualty) accounted for 0.8 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2004 and 2.9 points in 2003.
Chubb Commercial Insurance
     Average renewal rates in the U.S. increased 4% for CCI, which retained 85% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. CCI wrote $262 million of new business worldwide in the second quarter of 2004, compared to $305 million in the corresponding quarter of 2003.
 
     net written premiums grew 13% to $1.1 billion. The combined ratio was 107.5%, compared with 99.5% in the second quarter of 2003.
Chubb Specialty Insurance
     Executive Protection (EP) premiums grew 4%, and EP had a combined ratio of 101.8%. Average renewal rates in the U.S. for EP were flat, and the renewal retention rate was 90%. EP wrote $114 million of new business worldwide in the second quarter of 2004, compared to $96 million in the corresponding quarter of 2003.
     Financial Institutions (FI) premiums grew 14% in the second quarter. The combined ratio for FI was 159.8% for the second quarter, due to the $160 million E&O reserve increase related to investment banks, offset in part by the $50 million portion of the September 11th reserve release which is attributable to FI. Average renewal rates in the U.S. for FI were up 4%, and the renewal retention rate was 90%. FI wrote $53 million of new business worldwide in the second quarter of 2004, compared to $48 million in the corresponding quarter of 2003.
     For Other Specialty Lines, premiums were up 28%, primarily driven by 35% growth at Chubb Re. The combined ratio for Other Specialty Lines was 86.7%.
     net written premiums grew 8% to $747 million. CPI's combined ratio improved to 90.7% from 93.8% in the second quarter of 2003. Catastrophe losses accounted for 5.4 percentage points of the second quarter combined ratio in 2004 compared to 6.2 points in 2003. Excluding catastrophe losses, CPI's combined ratio improved 2.3 points to 85.3% from 87.6%, driven mainly by improvement in Homeowners insurance.
Chubb Personal Insurance
     The Homeowners line grew 9%. The combined ratio was 92.3%, which included 8.9 percentage points of catastrophe losses. Personal Automobile grew 6% and had a combined ratio of 94.1%, while Other Personal, which includes valuable articles, excess liability and yacht insurance, grew 7% and had a combined ratio of 81.9%.
     after taxes for the second quarter increased 12% to $232.4 million from $207.2 million in 2003. For the first half of 2004, property and casualty investment income after taxes increased 12% to $454.2 million from $405.2 million. The increase reflected strong operating cash flow and the contribution of $800 million by the parent company to the operating companies at the end of the second quarter of 2003, partially offset by the negative impact of investing the proceeds of maturing bonds at lower interest rates.
Property and casualty investment income
 
Webcast Conference Call to be Held Today at 5 P.M.
     Chubb's senior management will discuss the company's second quarter performance with analysts today, July 27, at 5:00 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time. The conference call will be webcast live on the Internet at http://www.chubb.com and archived later in the evening for replay.
About Chubb
     Founded in 1882, the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies provide property and casualty insurance for personal and commercial customers worldwide through 8,000 independent agents and brokers. Chubb's global network includes branches and affiliates throughout North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia.
     The company's Supplementary Investor Information Report has been posted on its Internet site at http://www.chubb.com.
     All financial results in this release and attachments are unaudited.
 
Definitions of Key Terms
Operating Income
Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of three separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance and specialty insurance. Performance of the business units is based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax-exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income tax.
 
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income, the after-tax appreciation or depreciation on the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at market value. The appreciation or depreciation on available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Ratio or Combined Loss and Expense Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
     Certain statements in this document, and certain oral statements made by management from time to time, are "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA and include estimates and assumptions related to economic, competitive, regulatory, judicial, legislative and other developments. These include statements relating to trends in, or representing management's beliefs about, our future strategies, operations and financial results, as well as other statements that include words such as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "should," "will," or other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning trends and future developments and their potential effects on us. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include, among others, those discussed or identified from time to time in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those associated with:
 
     The Corporation assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information set forth in this document, which speak as of the date hereof.
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
After tax annualized yield is based on the average invested assets for the periods presented with fixed maturities at amortized cost and equity securities at market value.
Statutory Policyholders' Surplus and Net Premiums Written include all domestic and foreign property and casualty subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of three separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance and specialty insurance. Performance of the business units is based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax-exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income taxes.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income, the after-tax appreciation or depreciation on the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at market value. The appreciation or depreciation on available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Ratio or Combined Loss and Expense Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.


