FILE:CB/CB-8K-20041026163007.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information, including the text of the exhibits attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. On October 26, 2004, The Chubb Corporation (Chubb) issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. On October 26, 2004, Chubb also posted the Supplementary Investor Information Report (SIIR) relating to its third quarter results on its web site at www.chubb.com. Copies of the press release and the SIIR are attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively. In its earnings release, the SIIR and in the conference call to discuss its 2004 third quarter results, scheduled to be webcast at 5:00 P.M. on October 26, 2004, Chubb presents, and will present, its results of operations in the manner that it believes is most meaningful to investors, which includes certain measures that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, as more fully described in the press release and SIIR furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02 as if fully set forth herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     WARREN, New Jersey, October 26, 2004  The Chubb Corporation [NYSE: CB] today reported that net income in the third quarter of 2004 was $364.0 million or $1.88 per share, compared to $259.8 million ($1.37 per share) in the third quarter of 2003.
     Operating income, which the company defines as net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses, increased to $332.3 million from $220.5 million in the third quarter of 2003. Operating income per share increased 48% to $1.72 from $1.16.
     Property and casualty net premiums written in the third quarter of 2004 grew 6% to $3.0 billion. Excluding Chubb Re, premium growth was 8%. U.S. premiums grew 6%. Non-U.S. premiums grew 11%, or 4% in local currencies.
     The combined loss and expense ratio for the third quarter was 93.3% in 2004 and 96.6% in 2003. Including $180 million in hurricane losses, catastrophe losses in the 2004 third quarter were $196.1 million, accounting for 6.7 percentage points of the combined ratio, compared to $96.0 million (3.7 points) in the third quarter of 2003. The expense ratio for the third quarter was 29.4% in 2004 and 30.9% in 2003.
Nine Month Results
     For the first nine months of 2004, net income was $1.08 billion or $5.61 per share, compared with $736.5 million or $4.13 per share for the first nine months of 2003. Operating income totaled a record $981.4 million or $5.10 per share for the first nine months of 2004, compared with $680.8 million or $3.82 per share in the first nine months of 2003. Results for the first nine months include an after-tax loss of $11 million or $0.06 per share from Chubb Financial Solutions, compared with a loss of $20 million or $0.11 per share in the first nine months of 2003.
 
     Property and casualty net premiums written in the first nine months of 2004 increased 10% to $9.0 billion. Chubb Re accounted for 1 percentage point of this growth. The combined ratio for the first nine months was 92.9% in 2004 and 95.8% in 2003. Catastrophe losses for the first nine months (excluding the $80 million September 11th reserve release in the second quarter of 2004) were $338.5 million (3.9 percentage points of the combined ratio) in 2004, compared to $261.5 million (3.5 points) in 2003. The expense ratio for the first nine months was 29.7% in 2004 and 30.7% in 2003.
Outlook for 2004
     "Chubb had a terrific third quarter despite the severe hurricane season," said John D. Finnegan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, "with solid premium growth, excellent underwriting profitability and higher investment income. Going forward, we are continuing to execute our underwriting strategy, control expenses and focus on selectively growing the business in areas that offer the best profit opportunities.
     "Each quarter this year has been outstanding, resulting in record earnings for the first nine months," said Mr. Finnegan. "Based on these results and our expectations for the fourth quarter, we are confident that we will achieve our full-year earnings guidance of $6.80 to $7.20 per share. Consistent with our previous guidance, this estimate excludes realized investment gains and losses, excludes Chubb Financial Solutions results and assumes 3 percentage points of catastrophe losses for the year."
Third Quarter Operations Review
     (CPI) premiums grew 9% to $754 million. CPI's combined ratio was 101.2%, compared to 99.9% in the third quarter of 2003. Catastrophe losses in the third quarter accounted for 19.0 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2004 compared to 10.7 percentage points in 2003. Excluding catastrophe losses, CPI's combined ratio improved 7.0 points to 82.2% from 89.2%.
Chubb Personal Insurance
     The homeowners line grew 10%, and the combined ratio was 109.1%, which included 32.1 percentage points of catastrophe losses. Excluding catastrophe losses, the combined ratio was 77.0%. Personal automobile insurance grew 6% and had a combined ratio of 92.5%, while other personal lines, which include valuable articles, excess liability and yacht insurance, grew 12% and had a combined ratio of 88.0%.
     (CCI) premiums grew 10% to $1.12 billion. The combined ratio improved to 82.3% from 90.6%. Third quarter catastrophe losses accounted for 3.5 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2004, compared to 2.9 points in 2003.
Chubb Commercial Insurance
     Average renewal rates in the U.S. increased 2% for CCI, which retained 85% of the U.S. accounts that came up for renewal. In the U.S., premiums from new accounts exceeded lost business by a 1.4-to-1 margin.
 
     (CSI) premiums grew 2% to $1.15 billion. The combined ratio was 99.2%, compared to 100.6% in the third quarter of 2003.
Chubb Specialty Insurance
     Executive Protection (EP) net written premiums grew 6%, and the business had a combined ratio of 100.3%. Average renewal rates in the U.S. for EP were down 2%, and the renewal retention rate was 89%. In the U.S., premiums from new EP accounts exceeded lost business by a 2-to-1 margin. Financial Institutions (FI) net premiums declined 1% in the third quarter, and the combined ratio was 103.9%. Average renewal rates in the U.S. for FI were up 1%, and the renewal retention rate was 90%. In the U.S., premiums from new FI accounts exceeded lost business by a 2.4-to-1 margin. For the other specialty lines, premiums were down 3% primarily because of a decline in Chubb Re premiums. The combined ratio for the other specialty lines was 95.9%.
     after taxes for the third quarter increased 13% to $241.6 million from $213.9 million in 2003. For the first nine months of 2004, property and casualty investment income after taxes increased 12% to $695.8 million from $619.1 million.
Property and casualty investment income
Webcast Conference Call to be Held Today at 5 P.M.
     Chubb's senior management will discuss the company's third quarter performance with investors and analysts today, October 26, at 5:00 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time. The conference call will be webcast live on the Internet at http://www.chubb.com and archived later in the evening for replay.
About Chubb
     Founded in 1882, the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies provide property and casualty insurance for personal and commercial customers worldwide through 8,000 independent agents and brokers. Chubb's global network includes branches and affiliates throughout North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia.
     The company's Supplementary Investor Information Report has been posted on its Internet site at http://www.chubb.com.
     All financial results in this release and attachments are unaudited.
 
Definitions of Key Terms
Operating Income
Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of three separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance and specialty insurance. Performance of the business units is based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax-exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income tax.
 
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income, the after-tax appreciation or depreciation on the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at market value. The appreciation or depreciation on available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Ratio or Combined Loss and Expense Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
     Certain statements in this document, and certain oral statements made by management from time to time, are "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA and include estimates and assumptions related to economic, competitive, regulatory, judicial, legislative and other developments. These include statements relating to trends in, or representing management's beliefs about, our future strategies, operations and financial results, as well as other statements that include words such as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "should," "will," or other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning trends and future developments and their potential effects on us. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include, among others, those discussed or identified from time to time in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those associated with:
 
     The Corporation assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information set forth in this document, which speak as of the date hereof.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
After tax annualized yield is based on the average invested assets for the periods presented with fixed maturities at amortized cost and equity securities at market value.
Statutory Policyholders' Surplus and Net Premiums Written include all domestic and foreign property and casualty subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of three separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance and specialty insurance. Performance of the business units is based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax-exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income taxes.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Book value per share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income, the after-tax appreciation or depreciation on the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at market value. The appreciation or depreciation on available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
Combined Ratio or Combined Loss and Expense Ratio


