FILE:CB/CB-8K-20040426161723.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
Table of Contents
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
April 26, 2004
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(908) 903-2000
Table of Contents
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information, including the text of the exhibits attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to this Item 12 of Form 8-K. On April 26, 2004, The Chubb Corporation (Chubb) issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. On April 26, 2004, Chubb also posted the Supplementary Investor Information Report (SIIR) relating to its first quarter results on its web site at www.chubb.com. Copies of the press release and the SIIR are attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively. In its earnings release, the SIIR and in the conference call to discuss its 2004 first quarter results, scheduled to be webcast at 5:00 p.m. on April 26, 2004, Chubb presents, and will present, its results of operations in the manner that it believes is most meaningful to investors, which includes certain measures that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, as more fully described in the press release and SIIR furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference into this Item 12 as if fully set forth herein.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     WARREN, N.J., April 26, 2004  The Chubb Corporation [NYSE: CB] today reported that net income in the first quarter of 2004 was $360.7 million, a 61% increase over net income of $224.6 million in the first quarter of 2003. Net income per share increased 44% to $1.88 from $1.31.
     Operating income, which the company defines as net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses, increased 39% to $308.1 million in the first quarter of 2004 from $221.7 million in the first quarter of 2003. Operating income per share grew 25% to a record $1.61 from $1.29 a year ago. First quarter operating income for 2004 includes an after-tax loss of $9.3 million or $0.05 per share from the non-insurance business of Chubb Financial Solutions (CFS), compared to after-tax income of $9.1 million or $0.05 per share in the first quarter of 2003.
     Net written premiums for the first quarter increased 13% to $3.0 billion. Premiums for Chubb Re accounted for 4 percentage points of this growth. U.S. premiums grew 11%. Non-U.S. premiums grew 19%, or 4% in local currencies.
     The combined loss and expense ratio for the first quarter was 92.6%, compared with 95.3% in the corresponding year-earlier quarter. In the first quarter of 2004, catastrophe losses were $96.7 million and accounted for 3.5 points of the combined ratio. In the first quarter of 2003, catastrophe losses were $94.9 million and accounted for 4.1 points of the combined ratio. Excluding catastrophe losses, the first quarter combined ratio was 89.1% in 2004 and 91.2% in 2003. The expense ratio for the first quarter was 30.1% in 2004, compared with 30.4% in 2003.
 
Outlook for 2004
     "We had an excellent first quarter," said John D. Finnegan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, "reflecting the earn-through of higher premiums and favorable loss experience, including unusually low commercial property losses. We continued to enjoy double-digit premium growth by attracting new customers, securing rate increases when needed and retaining a high percentage of our existing customers, all while maintaining underwriting discipline.
     "We expect that results in 2004 will continue to benefit from higher earned premiums and favorable terms and conditions," said Mr. Finnegan. "Our results for the first quarter put us well on the way to achieving or exceeding our operating earnings guidance of $5.90 to $6.30 per share for 2004, but it is, after all, only one quarter. We will revisit the forecast when we have had six months behind us, but meanwhile we will stay with our previous guidance. Our guidance assumes 3 points of catastrophes and excludes results from the non-insurance business of CFS."
Operations Review
     (CCI) had premium growth of 13% and a combined ratio of 82.8% for the quarter, compared to 86.5% in the first quarter of 2003. All CCI lines performed extremely well, especially Property & Marine, which had a combined ratio of 71.8%. CCI catastrophe losses in the first quarter accounted for 1.9 points of the combined ratio in 2004 and 3.4 points in 2003.
Chubb Commercial Insurance
     CCI's average renewal rate increases in the U.S. were 7%, and it retained 82% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. CCI wrote $270 million of new business worldwide in the first quarter of 2004, compared to $308 million in the first quarter of 2003.
     had net premium growth of 14% and a combined ratio of 97.9%, compared to 99.2% in the corresponding year-earlier quarter.
Chubb Specialty Insurance
     Executive Protection (EP) net written premiums grew 6% in the first quarter, and the business had a combined ratio of 101.5%. Average renewal rates in the U.S. were up 6%, and EP retained 89% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. EP wrote $102 million of new business worldwide in the first quarter of 2004, compared to $129 million in the first quarter of 2003.
     Financial Institutions (FI) net premiums grew 5% in the first quarter, and the business had a combined ratio of 110.8%. Average FI renewal rates in the U.S. were up 9%, and FI retained 92% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. FI wrote $52 million of new business worldwide in the first quarter of 2004, compared to $57 million in the first quarter of 2003.
     For the other specialty lines, first quarter premiums were up 37%, primarily driven by 76% growth at Chubb Re. The combined ratio for the other specialty lines was 84.3%.
 
     had premium growth of 9% and a combined ratio of 99.9%, compared to 103.6% in the first quarter of 2003. Catastrophes accounted for 11.5 points of the combined ratio in the first quarter of 2004, compared to 10.9 points in the first quarter of 2003. Excluding catastrophe losses, the CPI combined ratio for the quarter was 88.4% in 2004 and 92.7% in 2003.
Chubb Personal Insurance
     The Homeowners line grew 9%. The combined ratio was 109.6%, which included 20.0 percentage points of catastrophe losses. Homeowners results were affected by the winter freezes in the Northeast, where Chubb has a significant market presence. Personal automobile insurance grew 9% and had a combined ratio of 96.2%, while other personal lines, which include valuable articles, excess liability and yacht insurance, grew 8% and had a combined ratio of 77.0%.
     after taxes was up 12.0% to $221.8 million in the first quarter of 2004 from $198.0 million in the first quarter of 2003. The increase reflected strong operating cash flow and the contribution of $800 million by the parent company to the operating companies in the second quarter of 2003, partially offset by the negative impact of investing the proceeds of maturing bonds at lower interest rates.
Property and casualty investment income
     Chubb's senior management will discuss the company's first quarter performance with analysts today, April 26, at 5:00 P.M. Eastern time. The conference call will be webcast live on the Internet at http://www.chubb.com and archived later in the evening for replay.
About Chubb
     Founded in 1882, the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies provide property and casualty insurance for personal and commercial customers worldwide through 8,000 independent agents and brokers. Chubb's global network includes branches and affiliates throughout North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia.
     The company's Supplementary Investor Information Report has been posted on its Internet site at http://www.chubb.com.
     All financial results in this release and attachments are unaudited.
 
Definitions of Key Terms
Operating Income
Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of three separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance and specialty insurance. Performance of the business units is based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax-exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income tax.
 
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income, the after-tax appreciation or depreciation on the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at market value. The appreciation or depreciation on available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Ratio or Combined Loss and Expense Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
 
FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION
     Certain statements in this document, and certain oral statements made by management from time to time, are "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA and include estimates and assumptions related to economic, competitive, regulatory, judicial, legislative and other developments. These include statements relating to trends in, or representing management's beliefs about, our future strategies, operations and financial results, as well as other statements that include words such as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "should," "will," or other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning trends and future developments and their potential effects on us. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include, among others, those discussed or identified from time to time in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those associated with:
 
Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
After tax annualized yield is based on the average invested assets for the periods presented with fixed maturities at amortized cost and equity securities at market value.
Statutory Policyholders' Surplus and Net Premiums Written include all domestic and foreign property and casualty subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of three separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance and specialty insurance. Performance of the business units is based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax-exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income taxes.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income, the after-tax appreciation or depreciation on the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at market value. The appreciation or depreciation on available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Ratio or Combined Loss and Expense Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.


