FILE:CB/CB-8K-20060725161753.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits Signatures Exhibit Index to Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 25, 2006 Press release dated July 25, 2006 (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K) Supplementary Investor Information Report (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K)
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information, including the text of the exhibits attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. On July 25, 2006, The Chubb Corporation (Chubb) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. On July 25, 2006, Chubb also posted on its web site at www.chubb.com the Supplementary Investor Information Report (SIIR) relating to its 2006 second quarter results. Copies of the press release and the SIIR are attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively. In its press release, the SIIR and the conference call to discuss its 2006 second quarter results, scheduled to be webcast at 5:00 P.M. on July 25, 2006, Chubb presents, and will present, its results of operations in the manner that it believes is most meaningful to investors, which includes certain measures that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, as more fully described in the press release and the SIIR furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02 as if fully set forth herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     WARREN, New Jersey, July 25, 2006  The Chubb Corporation [NYSE: CB] today reported that net income in the second quarter of 2006 was $598 million, or $1.41 per share, compared to $495 million, or $1.23 per share, in the second quarter of 2005.
     Operating income, which the company defines as net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses, increased to $571 million from $461 million in the second quarter of 2005. Operating income per share increased 18% to $1.35 from $1.14.
     The second quarter combined loss and expense ratio improved to 85.2% in 2006 from 88.3% in 2005. Catastrophe losses for the second quarter of 2006 were $80 million, accounting for 2.7 percentage points of the combined ratio. In the second quarter of 2005, catastrophe losses were $21 million and accounted for 0.7 points of the combined ratio. The expense ratio for the second quarter was 28.5% in 2006 and 28.0% in 2005.
     "Chubb had another outstanding quarter," said John D. Finnegan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "Each of our three major business units contributed substantially to earnings, and the specialty business reached a milestone in its recovery by achieving a combined ratio below 90%. In addition to continued strong earnings, growth in our insurance business was up from the first quarter in what remains a generally stable market environment."
     Second quarter net written premiums for the insurance business increased 3% to $3.0 billion. Premiums for the reinsurance assumed business declined 51%, reflecting the impact of the Chubb ReHarbor Point transaction completed in December 2005. Total net written premiums declined 1% to $3.1 billion.
     Property and casualty investment income after taxes for the second quarter increased 10% to $288 million in 2006 from $261 million in 2005.
 
     During the second quarter of 2006, Chubb repurchased 5.8 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of approximately $290 million.
Six Month Results
     For the first six months of 2006, net income was $1.3 billion or $2.99 per share, compared with $965 million or $2.41 per share for the first half of 2005. Operating income for the first half of 2006 totaled $1.2 billion or a record $2.77 per share, compared with $902 million or $2.25 per share for the first half of 2005.
     For the first six months of 2006, net written premiums for the insurance business grew 1% to $5.8 billion. Premiums for the reinsurance assumed business declined 48%. Total net written premiums declined 3% to $6.0 billion.
     The combined ratio for the first half was 84.0% in 2006 and 88.9% in 2005. The impact of catastrophes for the first half of 2006 accounted for 1.4 percentage points of the combined ratio. In the first half of 2005, catastrophe losses represented 0.7 percentage points of the combined ratio. The expense ratio for the first half was 28.8% in 2006 and 28.4% in 2005.
     Property and casualty investment income after taxes increased 11% to $567 million in the first half of 2006 from $513 million in the corresponding period a year earlier.
     During the first half of 2006, Chubb repurchased 11 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of approximately $539 million.
Outlook for 2006
     "In light of Chubb's record earnings in the first six months and our positive outlook for the second half," said Mr. Finnegan, "we are raising guidance for 2006 full year operating income per share to a range of $4.90 to $5.10." The company's previous guidance, provided in January, was $4.30 to $4.50 per share. "Because the magnitude and timing of catastrophe losses are difficult to forecast," said Mr. Finnegan, "the revised operating income guidance continues to assume 4 percentage points of catastrophe losses for the full year." The impact of each point of catastrophe losses on operating income per share for the year is approximately 18 cents.
 
     The revised 2006 operating income guidance also assumes:
     Guidance and related assumptions are subject to the risks outlined in the company's forward-looking information safe-harbor statement below.
Second Quarter Operations Review
     (CPI) net written premiums grew 7% in the second quarter of 2006 to $934 million. CPI's combined ratio was 78.5%, compared to 81.0% in the second quarter of 2005. Catastrophe losses for the quarter accounted for 4.8 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2006 and 1.5 points in 2005. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, CPI's second quarter combined ratio was 73.7% in 2006 and 79.5% in 2005.
Chubb Personal Insurance
     The Homeowners line grew 7%, and the combined ratio was 72.6%. The Personal Automobile line grew 6% and had a combined ratio of 85.9%, while Other Personal Lines grew 8% and had a combined ratio of 92.6%.
     (CCI) net written premiums for the second quarter of 2006 increased 2% to $1.3 billion. The combined ratio was 85.4%, including 3.1 percentage points of catastrophes. In the second quarter of 2005, CCI's combined ratio was 86.7%, including 0.9 percentage points of catastrophes. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, CCI's second quarter combined ratio was 82.3% in 2006 and 85.8% in 2005.
Chubb Commercial Insurance
     Average renewal rates in the U.S. were down 1% for CCI, which retained 83% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. The ratio of new to lost business was 1 to 1 in the U.S.
 
     (CSI) net written premiums declined 1% to $739 million. The combined ratio was 89.0%, compared to 98.3% in the second quarter of 2005.
Chubb Specialty Insurance
     Professional Liability (PL) net written premiums were down 5%, and the business had a combined ratio of 92.0%. In the U.S., average renewal rates for PL were down 2%, renewal retention was 82% and the ratio of new to lost business was 1 to 1. Excluding the hospital medical malpractice and managed care errors & omissions businesses which CSI exited in July 2005, PL premiums were flat, and in the U.S. renewal retention was 87% and the ratio of new to lost business was 1.5 to 1.
     Surety net written premiums in the second quarter were up 60%. About half the increase resulted from the nonrenewal of a reinsurance treaty. Surety's combined ratio was 58.7%.
Webcast Conference Call to be Held Today at 5:00 P.M.
     Chubb's senior management will discuss the company's second quarter performance with investors and analysts today, July 25th, at 5:00 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time. The conference call will be webcast live on the Internet at and archived later in the day for replay. The company has posted its Supplementary Investor Information Report at .
www.chubb.com
http://www.chubb.com
     All financial results in this release and attachments are unaudited.
About Chubb
     Founded in 1882, the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies provide property and casualty insurance for personal and commercial customers worldwide through 8,000 independent agents and brokers. Chubb's global network includes branches and affiliates in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia.
 
Definitions of Key Terms
Operating Income
Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax-exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income tax.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income, the after-tax appreciation or depreciation on the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at market value. The appreciation or depreciation on available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
     Certain statements in this document are "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA and include statements regarding management's outlook for the second half of 2006 and 2006 full year operating income per share guidance and related assumptions. Forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning trends and future developments and their potential effects on us. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include, among others, those discussed or identified from time to time in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those associated with:
 
          The Corporation assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information set forth in this document, which speak as of the date hereof.
 
 
Share and per share amounts have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the two-for-one stock split effective March 31, 2006.
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
This report is for informational purposes only. It should be read in conjunction with documents filed by The Chubb Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
 
 
June 30, 2006
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Share and per share amounts have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the two-for-one stock split effective March 31, 2006.
 
 
In December 2005, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 28,000,000 shares of the Corporation's common stock. The authorization has no expiration date. As of June 30, 2006, 14,213,838 shares remained under the share repurchase authorization.
 
 
After tax annualized yield is based on the average invested assets for the periods presented with fixed maturities at amortized cost and equity securities at market value.
Statutory Policyholders' Surplus and Net Premiums Written include all domestic and foreign property and casualty subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax-exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income taxes.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income, the after-tax appreciation or depreciation on the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at market value. The appreciation or depreciation on available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Ratio or Combined Loss and Expense Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.


