FILE:CB/CB-8K-20060424162140.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information, including the text of the exhibits attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. On April 24, 2006, The Chubb Corporation (Chubb) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. On April 24, 2006, Chubb also posted on its web site at www.chubb.com the Supplementary Investor Information Report (SIIR) relating to its 2006 first quarter results. Copies of the press release and the SIIR are attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively. In its press release, the SIIR and the conference call to discuss its 2006 first quarter results, scheduled to be webcast at 5:00 P.M. on April 24, 2006, Chubb presents, and will present, its results of operations in the manner that it believes is most meaningful to investors, which includes certain measures that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, as more fully described in the press release and the SIIR furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02 as if fully set forth herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     WARREN, New Jersey, April 24, 2006  The Chubb Corporation [NYSE: CB] today reported that net income in the first quarter of 2006 was $672 million, or $1.58 per share, compared to $470 million, or $1.18 per share, in the first quarter of 2005.
     Operating income, which the company defines as net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses, increased to $603 million from $441 million in the first quarter of 2005. Operating income per share increased 28% to a record $1.42 from $1.11.
     The per-share amounts have been adjusted to reflect Chubb's two-for-one stock split, which was distributed in the form of a stock dividend on April 18, 2006 to shareholders of record on March 31, 2006.
     The first quarter combined loss and expense ratio improved to 82.9% in 2006 from 89.4% in 2005. "This was by far the best combined ratio and most profitable quarter in Chubb's history," said John D. Finnegan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, "as all three of our insurance businesses made substantial contributions to the bottom line."
     Catastrophes had virtually no impact on the combined ratio in the first quarter of 2006. Catastrophe losses of $21 million were offset by a $20 million reduction in reinsurance reinstatement premium costs related to Hurricane Katrina. In the first quarter of 2005, catastrophe losses were $20 million and accounted for 0.6 points of the combined ratio. The expense ratio for the first quarter was 29.1% in 2006 and 28.8% in 2005.
     Net written premiums for the first quarter of 2006 declined 4% to $2.9 billion. Premiums for the insurance business declined 1%. Premiums for the Reinsurance Assumed business declined 46%, reflecting the impact of the Chubb Re  Harbor Point transaction completed on December 15, 2005.
 
     Property and casualty investment income after taxes for the first quarter increased 11% to $279 million in 2006 from $252 million in 2005.
     During the first quarter of 2006, Chubb repurchased 5,225,562 shares (on a post-split basis) of its common stock at a total cost of approximately $250 million.
     "Chubb's spectacular first-quarter results obviously put us on the path to achieving or exceeding our January 31, 2006 operating income per share guidance of $4.30 to $4.50 for the year on a post-split basis," said Mr. Finnegan. "However, we do not believe it is appropriate to revisit our guidance after only one quarter." Guidance and related assumptions are subject to the risks outlined in the company's forward-looking information safe-harbor statement below.
First Quarter Operations Review
     (CPI) net written premiums grew 5% in the first quarter to $792 million. CPI's combined ratio was 79.7%, compared to 84.5% in the first quarter of 2005. Catastrophe losses were 3.6 percentage points in 2006 and 1.4 points in 2005.
Chubb Personal Insurance
     The Homeowners line grew 8%, and the combined ratio was 73.7%. The Personal Automobile line grew 6% and had a combined ratio of 90.0%, while other personal lines declined 6% and had a combined ratio of 90.7%.
     (CCI) net written premiums for the first quarter declined 3% to $1.3 billion. The combined ratio was 78.8%, including a 2 percentage point favorable impact of catastrophes due to the reduction in reinsurance reinstatement premium costs. In the first quarter of 2005, CCI's combined ratio was 84.0%, including an unfavorable 0.4 percentage point impact of catastrophes. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, CCI's first quarter combined ratio was 80.8% in 2006 and 83.6% in 2005.
Chubb Commercial Insurance
     Average renewal rates in the U.S. were flat for CCI, which retained 82% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. In the U.S., the ratio of new to lost business was 0.7 to 1.
     (CSI) net written premiums were down 3% to $680 million. The combined ratio was 90.7%, compared to 105.0% in the first quarter of 2005.
Chubb Specialty Insurance
 
     Professional Liability (PL) net written premiums were down 5%, and the business had a combined ratio of 95.6%. Average renewal rates in the U.S. for PL were down 1%, and renewal retention was 75%. The ratio of new to lost business in the U.S. was 0.8 to 1. Excluding the hospital medical malpractice and managed care errors & omissions businesses which CSI exited on July 1, 2005, PL premiums were flat, renewal retention in the U.S. was 87% and the ratio of new to lost business in the U.S. was 1.8 to 1.
     Surety net written premiums in the first quarter were up 23% largely because of the non-renewal of a reinsurance treaty, and the combined ratio was 37.0%.
Webcast Conference Call to be Held Today at 5:00 P.M.
     Chubb's senior management will discuss the company's first quarter performance with investors and analysts today, April 24th, at 5:00 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time. The conference call will be webcast live on the Internet at and archived later in the day for replay. The company has posted its Supplementary Investor Information Report at .
www.chubb.com
www.chubb.com
     All financial results in this release and attachments are unaudited.
About Chubb
     Founded in 1882, the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies provide property and casualty insurance for personal and commercial customers worldwide through 8,000 independent agents and brokers. Chubb's global network includes branches and affiliates throughout North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia.
 
Definitions of Key Terms
Operating Income
Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax-exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income tax.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income, the after-tax appreciation or depreciation on the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at market value. The appreciation or depreciation on available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
     Certain statements in this document are "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA and include statements regarding management's guidance for 2006 operating income per share and related assumptions. Forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning trends and future developments and their potential effects on us. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include, among others, those discussed or identified from time to time in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those associated with:
 
     The Corporation assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information set forth in this document, which speak as of the date hereof.
 
 
Share and per share amounts have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the two- for-one stock split effective March 31, 2006.
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION March 31, 2006
Share and per share amounts have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the two-for-one stock split effective March 31, 2006.
 
 
In December 2005, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 28,000,000 shares of the Corporation's common stock. The authorization has no expiration date. As of March 31, 2006, 19,986,638 shares remained under the share repurchase authorization.
 
 
After tax annualized yield is based on the average invested assets for the periods presented with fixed maturities at amortized cost and equity securities at market value.
Statutory Policyholders' Surplus and Net Premiums Written include all domestic and foreign property and casualty subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax-exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income taxes.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income, the after-tax appreciation or depreciation on the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at market value. The appreciation or depreciation on available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Ratio or Combined Loss and Expense Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.


