FILE:CB/CB-8K-20061026161258.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits Signatures Exhibit Index to Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 26, 2006 Press release dated October 26, 2006 (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K) Supplementary Investor Information Report (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K)
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information, including the text of the exhibits attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. On October 26, 2006, The Chubb Corporation (Chubb) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. On October 26, 2006, Chubb also posted on its web site at the Supplementary Investor Information Report (SIIR) relating to its 2006 third quarter results. Copies of the press release and the SIIR are attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively. In its press release, the SIIR and the conference call to discuss its 2006 third quarter results, scheduled to be webcast at 5:00 P.M. on October 26, 2006, Chubb presents, and will present, its results of operations in the manner that it believes is most meaningful to investors, which includes certain measures that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, as more fully described in the press release and the SIIR furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02 as if fully set forth herein.
www.chubb.com
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     WARREN, New Jersey, October 26, 2006  The Chubb Corporation [NYSE: CB] today reported that net income in the third quarter of 2006 was $604 million, or $1.43 per share, compared to $246 million, or $0.60 per share, in the third quarter of 2005.
     Operating income, which the company defines as net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses, increased to $579 million, or $1.37 per share, from $183 million, or $0.45 per share, in the third quarter of 2005.
     Last year, Chubb's results for the third quarter were adversely affected by pre-tax costs of $511 million, or $0.81 per share after-tax, related to Hurricane Katrina. This amount included estimated net losses of $415 million, net reinsurance reinstatement premium costs of $51 million and a $45 million charge representing Chubb's share of the Katrina losses estimated by Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd.
     The third quarter combined loss and expense ratio improved to 85.5% in 2006 from 102.2% in 2005. The impact of catastrophes in the third quarter accounted for 1.5 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2006 and 17.0 points in 2005. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, the third quarter combined ratio improved to 84.0% in 2006 from 85.2% in 2005. The expense ratio for the third quarter was 28.6% in 2006 and 27.8% in 2005.
     In the third quarter of 2006, net written premiums for the insurance business increased 5% to $2.9 billion. Excluding the impact of net reinsurance reinstatement premium costs related to Katrina, net written premiums for the insurance business increased 2%.
 
     Net written premiums for the reinsurance assumed business declined 66% in the third quarter. Excluding reinstatement premium revenues related to Katrina, net written premiums for the reinsurance business declined 57%, reflecting the impact of the Chubb Re-Harbor Point transaction completed in December 2005.
     Total net written premiums for the insurance and reinsurance businesses declined 1% to $3.0 billion in the third quarter. Excluding the impact of Katrina-related reinstatement premiums, total net written premiums declined 2%.
     Property and casualty investment income after taxes for the third quarter increased 10% to $295 million in 2006 from $267 million in 2005.
     During the third quarter of 2006, Chubb repurchased 12.8 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $636 million.
     "Chubb's third quarter results were driven by outstanding profit contributions from all three of our insurance business units, including continued improvement in the Professional Liability segment of Chubb Specialty Insurance," said John D. Finnegan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.
     "Based on our favorable outlook for the fourth quarter and the benign hurricane season so far, we are updating our 2006 calendar year operating income per share guidance from the $4.90 to $5.10 range we provided in July to a new range of $5.40 to $5.50," said Mr. Finnegan. "This revised guidance assumes two percentage points of catastrophe losses in the fourth quarter, which would result in 1.6 percentage points of catastrophe losses for the full year, compared to the catastrophe assumption of 4 percentage points for 2006 included in our July guidance."
Nine Month Results
     For the first nine months of 2006, net income was $1.9 billion, or $4.43 per share, compared with $1.2 billion, or $3.00 per share, for the first nine months of 2005. Operating income for the first nine months of 2006 totaled $1.8 billion, or a record $4.14 per share, compared with $1.1 billion, or $2.69 per share, for the first nine months of 2005.
     The combined ratio for the first nine months improved to 84.5% in 2006 from 93.3% in 2005. The impact of catastrophes in the first nine months accounted for 1.4 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2006 and 6.1 points in 2005. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, the nine-month combined ratio improved to 83.1% in 2006 from 87.2% in 2005. The expense ratio for the first nine months was 28.7% in 2006 and 28.2% in 2005.
 
     For the first nine months of 2006, net written premiums for the insurance business grew 2% to $8.7 billion. Net written premiums for the reinsurance assumed business declined 54%. Total net written premiums declined 2% to $9.0 billion. Excluding the impact of net reinsurance reinstatement premiums related to Katrina, net written premiums increased 1% for the insurance business, declined 51% for the reinsurance assumed business and declined 3% in total.
     Property and casualty investment income after taxes increased 11% to $862 million in the first nine months of 2006 from $780 million in the corresponding period a year earlier.
     During the first nine months of 2006, Chubb repurchased 23.8 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $1.2 billion.
Third Quarter Operations Review
     (CPI) net written premiums grew 6% in the third quarter of 2006 to $913 million. Excluding the impact of reinsurance reinstatement premium costs related to Katrina, premiums grew 4%. CPI's combined ratio was 84.1%, compared to 94.3% in the third quarter of 2005. The impact of catastrophes in the third quarter accounted for 4.1 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2006, compared with 15.4 points in 2005. Excluding the impact of catastrophes in both years, the third quarter combined ratio was 80.0% in 2006 and 78.9% in 2005.
Chubb Personal Insurance
     The Homeowners line grew 8% (5% excluding the impact of Katrina-related reinsurance reinstatement premiums), and the combined ratio was 76.6%. The Personal Automobile line grew 3% and had a combined ratio of 93.1%, while Other Personal Lines grew 2% and had a combined ratio of 102.8%.
     (CCI) net written premiums for the third quarter of 2006 increased 10% to $1.2 billion. Excluding the impact of reinsurance reinstatement premium costs related to Katrina, premiums grew 3%. CCI's combined ratio was 85.4%, including 0.7 percentage points of catastrophe losses. In the third quarter of 2005, CCI's combined ratio was 112.8%, including 29.7 percentage points from the impact of catastrophes. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, CCI's third quarter combined ratio was 84.7% in 2006 and 83.1% in 2005.
Chubb Commercial Insurance
     Average renewal rates in the U.S. were down 1% for CCI, which retained 84% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. The ratio of new to lost business was 1 to 1 in the U.S.
 
     (CSI) net written premiums for the third quarter of 2006 declined 3% to $748 million. The combined ratio was 86.4%, compared to 93.8% in the third quarter of 2005.
Chubb Specialty Insurance
     Professional Liability (PL) net written premiums were down 4%, mostly as a result of the company's exit from the hospital medical malpractice and managed care errors & omissions businesses. PL had a combined ratio of 91.0%. In the U.S., average renewal rates for PL were down 1%, renewal retention was 88% and the ratio of new to lost business was 1.5 to 1.
     Surety net written premiums in the third quarter were up 5%. Surety's combined ratio was 39.5%.
Webcast Conference Call to be Held Today at 5:00 P.M.
     Chubb's senior management will discuss the company's third quarter performance with investors and analysts today, October 26th, at 5:00 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time. The conference call will be webcast live on the Internet at and archived later in the day for replay. The company has posted its Supplementary Investor Information Report at .
www.chubb.com
http://www.chubb.com
     All financial results in this release and attachments are unaudited.
About Chubb
     Founded in 1882, the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies provide property and casualty insurance for personal and commercial customers worldwide through 8,000 independent agents and brokers. Chubb's global network includes branches and affiliates in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia.
 
Definitions of Key Terms
Operating Income
Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax-exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income tax.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income, the after-tax appreciation or depreciation on the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at market value. The appreciation or depreciation on available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
     Certain statements in this document are "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA and include statements regarding estimates of losses related to Hurricane Katrina and management's 2006 operating income per share guidance and related assumptions. Forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning trends and future developments and their potential effects on us. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include, among others, those discussed or identified from time to time in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those associated with:
 
          The Corporation assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information set forth in this document, which speak as of the date hereof.
 
 
Share and per share amounts have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the two- for-one stock split effective March 31, 2006.
 
The increase in unpaid losses and loss expenses for both the third quarter and the first nine months of 2005 includes $413 million related to Hurricane Katrina.
 
For the nine months ended September 30, 2006, property and marine net premiums written benefited from a $20 million reduction in reinsurance reinstatement premium costs related to Hurricane Katrina.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2005, net premiums written for the insurance business reflected reinsurance reinstatement premium costs of $102 million ($18 million homeowners, $14 million commercial multiple peril and $70 million property and marine) related to Hurricane Katrina. For the same period, reinsurance assumed net premiums written included net reinstatement premium revenue of $51 million related to Hurricane Katrina.
 
For the quarter ended September 30, 2005, net premiums written for the insurance business reflected reinsurance reinstatement premium costs of $102 million ($18 million homeowners, $14 million commercial multiple peril and $70 million property and marine) related to Hurricane Katrina. For the same period, reinsurance assumed net premiums written included net reinstatement premium revenue of $51 million related to Hurricane Katrina.

 
Exhibit 99.2
This report is for informational purposes only. It should be read in conjunction with documents filed by The Chubb Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
 
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION September 30, 2006
Share and per share amounts have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the two-for-one stock split effective March 31, 2006.
 
 
In December 2005, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 28,000,000 shares of the Corporation's common stock. The authorization has no expiration date. As of September 30, 2006, 1,391,468 shares remained under the share repurchase authorization.
 
 
After tax annualized yield is based on the average invested assets for the periods presented with fixed maturities at amortized cost and equity securities at market value.
Statutory Policyholders' Surplus and Net Premiums Written include all domestic and foreign property and casualty subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax-exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income taxes.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income, the after-tax appreciation or depreciation on the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at market value. The appreciation or depreciation on available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Ratio or Combined Loss and Expense Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.


