FILE:CB/CB-8K-20070430154458.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On April 24, 2007, the shareholders of The Chubb Corporation (the "Corporation") approved the adoption of a Certificate of Amendment to the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation to implement a majority voting standard in the uncontested election of directors. The Certificate of Amendment was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of New Jersey on April 26, 2007. The full text of the Certificate of Amendment is set forth in Exhibit 3.1 of this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02 as if fully set forth herein.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
The Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Corporation was held on April 24, 2007. Matters submitted to shareholders at the meeting and the voting results thereof were as follows:
The shareholders of the Corporation elected each of the director nominees proposed by the Corporation's Board of Directors to serve until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified. The following is a breakdown of the voting results:
Election of Directors.
The shareholders of the Corporation ratified the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Corporation's independent auditor. The following is a breakdown of the voting results:
Appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Independent Auditor.
     The shareholders approved an amendment to the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation that provides for a majority voting standard in uncontested elections of members to the Corporation's Board of Directors. The following is a breakdown of the voting results:
Amendment to the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
The shareholders of the Corporation rejected a proposal requesting that the Corporation prepare and disclose a report regarding its political contributions and related matters. The following is a breakdown of the voting results:
Increased Disclosure of Political Contributions.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
          3.1     Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 3.1
     The undersigned DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
     That the name of the corporation is THE CHUBB CORPORATION.
FIRST
:
     That the Board of Directors of The Chubb Corporation, a New Jersey corporation (hereinafter called the "Corporation"), at a meeting duly convened and held on March 2, 2007, at which a quorum was present and acting throughout, did approve and authorize this amendment to the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
SECOND
:
     That the shareholders of the Corporation, at a meeting duly convened and held on April 24, 2007, at which a quorum was present and acting throughout (the "Shareholder Meeting"), did approve and authorize this amendment to the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
THIRD
:
     That 407,355,123 shares of the Corporation's common stock, par value $1.00 per share (the "Common Stock"), were entitled to vote on this Amendment at the Shareholder Meeting.
FOURTH
:
     That the holders of 331,826,142 shares of Common Stock voted for this Amendment and the holders of 23,067,105 shares of Common Stock voted against this amendment.
FIFTH
:
     That the existing paragraph of Article SEVENTH is hereby redesignated as Article SEVENTH, clause (a) and there be added to Article SEVENTH a new clause (b) to read in its entirety as follows:
SIXTH
:
(b) Except as otherwise required by law, directors shall be elected by the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast in person or by proxy (counting as cast for such purpose those shares in respect of which votes are "withheld" pursuant to Rule 14a-4(b)(2) of the proxy solicitation rules and regulations promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), at a meeting at which a quorum is present, unless the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, in which case, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast in person or by proxy at the meeting at which a quorum is present. In the event that a director nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes cast in an election where the number of nominees equals the number of directors to be elected, the Board of Directors may decrease the number of directors, fill the vacancy, or take other appropriate action.
     That the foregoing amendment shall be effective on and as of April 26, 2007.
SEVENTH
:
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The Chubb Corporation has caused its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed and this Amendment to be signed by its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, John D. Finnegan, and attested by its Secretary, W. Andrew Macan, this 26 day of April, 2007.
th


