FILE:CB/CB-8K-20070423162241.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information, including the text of the exhibits attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. On April 23, 2007, The Chubb Corporation (Chubb) issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. On April 23, 2007, Chubb also posted on its web site at the Supplementary Investor Information Report (SIIR) relating to its 2007 first quarter results. Copies of the press release and the SIIR, both of which are incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02 as if fully set forth herein, are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Form 8-K. In its press release, in the SIIR and in the conference call to discuss its 2007 first quarter results, scheduled to be webcast at 5:00 P.M. on April 23, 2007, Chubb presents, and will present, its results of operations in the manner that it believes is most meaningful to investors, which includes certain measures that are not prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
www.chubb.com
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
            99.1          Press release dated April 23, 2007 (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K)
            99.2          Supplementary Investor Information Report (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K)
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     WARREN, New Jersey, April 23, 2007  The Chubb Corporation [NYSE: CB] today reported that net income in the first quarter of 2007 was $710 million or $1.71 per share, compared to $672 million or $1.58 per share in the first quarter of 2006.
     Operating income, which the company defines as net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses, increased 5% to $634 million from $603 million in the first quarter of 2006. Operating income per share increased 8% to a record $1.53 from $1.42.
     Net written premiums for the first quarter declined 2% to $2.9 billion. Premiums for the insurance business increased 1%; they decreased 1% in the U.S. and increased 7% outside the U.S. (1% in local currencies). Premiums for the reinsurance assumed business declined 69%, reflecting the impact of the Chubb Re-Harbor Point transaction completed in December 2005.
     The first quarter combined loss and expense ratio was 83.4% in 2007, compared to 82.9% in 2006. The impact of catastrophes accounted for 2.5 percentage points of the combined ratio in the first quarter of 2007, compared to an impact of 0.1 percentage points in the first quarter of 2006. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, the first quarter combined ratio was 80.9% in 2007 and 82.8% in 2006. The expense ratio for the first quarter was 30.4% in 2007 and 29.1% in 2006.
     Property and casualty investment income after taxes for the first quarter increased 9% to $305 million in 2007 from $279 million in 2006.
     "All three business units made substantial contributions to first quarter earnings," said John D. Finnegan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "We continued to produce superior earnings in a challenging insurance market by maintaining our underwriting standards while competing effectively to retain existing accounts and write new business at adequate rates."
 
     Mr. Finnegan added, "Chubb's outstanding first-quarter results obviously put us on the path to achieving or exceeding our January 30, 2007 operating income per share guidance of $5.00 to $5.40 for the year. However, we do not believe it is appropriate to revisit our guidance after only one quarter." Guidance and related assumptions are subject to the risks outlined in the company's forward-looking information safe-harbor statement below.
     On March 21, 2007, Chubb's board of directors authorized the repurchase of 20 million shares of its common stock in addition to the 20 million share repurchase authorized on December 7, 2006. During the first quarter of 2007, Chubb repurchased 11,835,577 shares of its common stock at a total cost of $605 million. As of March 31, 2007, there were 28,010,361 shares of common stock available for repurchase under current authorizations.
     On March 29, 2007, Chubb successfully completed a public offering of $1 billion of subordinated capital securities. The proceeds of the offering will be used to repurchase shares of Chubb's common stock.
First Quarter Operations Review
     (CPI) net written premiums grew 6% in the first quarter to $840 million. CPI's combined ratio for the quarter was 79.3%, compared to 79.7% in the first quarter of 2006. Catastrophe losses for the quarter were 1.3 percentage points in 2007 and 3.6 points in 2006. Excluding catastrophe losses, CPI's first quarter combined ratio was 78.0% in 2007 and 76.1% in 2006.
Chubb Personal Insurance
     Net written premiums for Homeowners grew 7%, and the combined ratio was 71.1%. Personal Automobile net written premiums declined 5%, and the combined ratio was 95.4%. Other Personal lines grew 16% and had a combined ratio of 93.1%.
     (CCI) net written premiums declined 1% in the first quarter to $1.3 billion. The combined ratio for the quarter was 88.0% in 2007 and 78.8% in 2006. Catastrophe losses accounted for 5.0 percentage points in the first quarter of 2007. In the first quarter of 2006, there was a 2.0 percentage point favorable impact of catastrophes due to a reduction in previously accrued reinsurance reinstatement premium costs related to Hurricane Katrina. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, CCI's first quarter combined ratio was 83.0% in 2007 and 80.8% in 2006.
Chubb Commercial Insurance
     Average first quarter renewal rates in the U.S. were down 2% for CCI, which retained 84% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. In the U.S., the ratio of new to lost business was 1.1 to 1.
 
     (CSI) net written premiums were flat in the first quarter at $681 million. The combined ratio was 83.1%, compared to 90.7% in the first quarter of 2006.
Chubb Specialty Insurance
     Professional Liability (PL) net written premiums declined 3%, and the business had a combined ratio of 89.0%. Average first quarter renewal rates in the U.S. were down 4% for PL, which retained 87% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. In the U.S., the ratio of new to lost business was 1.4 to 1.
     Surety net written premiums were up 29%, and the combined ratio was 31.4%.
Webcast Conference Call to be Held Today at 5 P.M.
     Chubb's senior management will discuss the company's first quarter performance with investors and analysts today, April 23rd, at 5 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time. The conference call will be webcast live on the Internet at and archived later in the day for replay.
http://www.chubb.com
About Chubb
     Founded in 1882, the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies provide property and casualty insurance for personal and commercial customers worldwide through 8,500 independent agents and brokers. Chubb's global network includes branches and affiliates throughout North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia.
     Chubb's Supplementary Investor Information Report has been posted on its Internet site at .
http://www.chubb.com
     All financial results in this release and attachments are unaudited.
 
Definitions of Key Terms
Operating Income
Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax-exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income tax.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income, the after-tax appreciation or depreciation on the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at market value. The appreciation or depreciation on available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
     Certain statements in this document are "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). These forward-looking statements, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA and include statements regarding management's 2007 operating income per share guidance and related assumptions, the use of proceeds from the issuance of subordinated capital securities and rates at which new and renewal business have been written, are made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning trends and future developments and their potential effects on Chubb. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include, among others, those discussed or identified from time to time in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those associated with:
 
     Chubb assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information set forth in this document, which speak as of the date hereof.
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
This report is for informational purposes only. It should be read in conjunction with documents filed by The Chubb Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
 
 
 
In December 2005, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 28,000,000 shares of the Corporation's common stock. No shares remain under the 2005 share repurchase authorization.
In December 2006, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 20,000,000 shares of the Corporation's common stock. In March 2007, the Board of Directors authorized an increase of 20,000,000 shares to the authorization approved in December 2006. The authorizations have no expiration date. As of March 31, 2007, 28,010,361 shares remained under the share repurchase authorizations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consistof four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax-exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income taxes.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income, the after-tax appreciation or depreciation on the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at market value. The appreciation or depreciation on available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Ratio or Combined Loss and Expense Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.


