FILE:CB/CB-8K-20070724162117.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information, including the text of the exhibits attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. On July 24, 2007, The Chubb Corporation (Chubb) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. On July 24, 2007, Chubb also posted on its web site at the Supplementary Investor Information Report (SIIR) relating to its 2007 second quarter results. Copies of the press release and the SIIR, both of which are incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02 as if fully set forth herein, are attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively. In its press release, the SIIR and the conference call to discuss its 2007 second quarter results, scheduled to be webcast at 5:00 P.M. on July 24, 2007, Chubb presents, and will present, its results of operations in the manner that it believes is most meaningful to investors, which includes certain measures that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
www.chubb.com
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     WARREN, New Jersey, July 24, 2007  The Chubb Corporation [NYSE: CB] today reported that net income in the second quarter of 2007 was $709 million or $1.75 per share, compared to $598 million or $1.41 per share in the second quarter of 2006.
     Operating income, which the company defines as net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses, increased to $648 million from $571 million in the second quarter of 2006. Operating income per share increased 19% to a record $1.60 from $1.35.
     Total net written premiums for the second quarter declined 1% to $3.1 billion. Net written premiums for the insurance business increased 2%  1% in the U.S. and 7% outside the U.S. (3% in local currencies). Net written premiums for the reinsurance assumed business declined 75%, reflecting the impact of the Chubb Re-Harbor Point transaction completed in December 2005.
     The second quarter combined loss and expense ratio was 82.7% in 2007, compared to 85.2% in 2006. Catastrophe losses for the second quarter of 2007, primarily from storms on the East Coast of the United States in April and in England in June, accounted for 3.9 percentage points of the combined ratio. In the second quarter of 2006, catastrophe losses accounted for 2.7 points of the combined ratio. The expense ratio for the second quarter was 29.6% in 2007 and 28.5% in 2006.
     Property and casualty investment income after taxes for the second quarter increased 9% to $313 million in 2007 from $288 million in 2006.
     During the second quarter, Chubb repurchased 9,891,000 shares of its common stock at a total cost of $535 million. As of June 30, 2007, there were 18,119,361 shares of common stock available for repurchase under the current authorization.
 
     "We had another outstanding quarter," said John D. Finnegan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, "with a record-low combined ratio and substantial earnings contributions from all three business units. We are particularly pleased that we have been able to generate modest premium growth in our insurance business while maintaining underwriting discipline in a challenging market environment."
Six-Month Results
     For the first six months of 2007, net income was $1.4 billion or $3.46 per share, compared with $1.3 billion or $2.99 per share for the first half of 2006. Operating income for the first half of 2007 totaled $1.3 billion or a record $3.13 per share, compared with $1.2 billion or $2.77 per share for the first half of 2006.
     Total net written premiums for the first six months declined 1% to $5.9 billion. Net written premiums for the insurance business increased 2%  flat in the U.S. and up 7% outside the U.S. (up 2% in local currencies). Net written premiums for the reinsurance assumed business declined 71%.
     The combined loss and expense ratio for the first six months was 83.1% in 2007, compared to 84.0% in 2006. Catastrophe losses for the first half of 2007 accounted for 3.2 percentage points of the combined ratio. In the first half of 2006, the impact of catastrophes accounted for 1.4 points of the combined ratio. The expense ratio for the first six months was 30.0% in 2007 and 28.8% in 2006.
     Property and casualty investment income after taxes for the first six months increased 9% to $618 million in 2007 from $567 million in 2006.
     During the first six months, Chubb repurchased 21,726,577 shares of its common stock at a total cost of $1.1 billion.
Outlook for 2007
     "In light of Chubb's outstanding first half results and our positive outlook for the second half," said Mr. Finnegan, "we are raising our guidance for 2007 full year operating income per share to a range of $5.70 to $6.10." The company's previous guidance, provided in January 2007, was $5.00 to $5.40. The revised guidance continues to assume 4 percentage points of catastrophe losses for the full year. The impact of each point of catastrophe losses on operating income per share for the year is approximately $0.19.
 
     The revised operating income guidance also assumes:
     Guidance and related assumptions are subject to the risks outlined in the company's forward-looking information safe-harbor statement below.
Second Quarter Operations Review
     (CPI) net written premiums grew 4% in the second quarter to $975 million. CPI's combined ratio for the quarter was 85.3%, compared to 78.5% in the second quarter of 2006. Catastrophe losses for the quarter were 8.1 percentage points in 2007 and 4.8 points in 2006.
Chubb Personal Insurance
     Net written premiums for Homeowners grew 7%and the combined ratio was 83.8%. Personal Automobile net written premiums declined 10%, and the combined ratio was 82.3%. Other Personal lines grew 10% and had a combined ratio of 93.8%.
,
     (CCI) net written premiums increased 1% in the second quarter to $1.3 billion. The combined ratio for the quarter was 85.4% in both 2007 and 2006. Catastrophe losses accounted for 3.3 percentage points in the second quarter of 2007 and 3.1 points in the corresponding quarter of 2006.
Chubb Commercial Insurance
     Average second quarter renewal rates in the U.S. were down 3% for CCI, which retained 82% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. In the U.S., the ratio of new to lost business was 1 to 1.
     (CSI) net written premiums increased 1% in the second quarter to $743 million. The combined ratio was 75.6%, compared to 89.0% in the second quarter of 2006.
Chubb Specialty Insurance
 
     Professional Liability (PL) net written premiums declined 1%, and the business had a combined ratio of 80.5%. Average second quarter renewal rates in the U.S. were down 6% for PL, which retained 90% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. In the U.S., the ratio of new to lost business was 1.7 to 1.
     Surety net written premiums were up 13%, and the combined ratio was 32.7%.
Webcast Conference Call to be Held Today at 5 P.M.
     Chubb's senior management will discuss the company's second quarter performance with investors and analysts today, July 24th, at 5 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time. The conference call will be webcast live on the Internet at and archived later in the day for replay.
http://www.chubb.com
About Chubb
     Founded in 1882, the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies provide property and casualty insurance for personal and commercial customers worldwide through 8,500 independent agents and brokers. Chubb's global network includes branches and affiliates throughout North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia.
     Chubb's Supplementary Investor Information Report has been posted on its Internet site at
http://www.chubb.com.
     All financial results in this release and attachments are unaudited.
 
Definitions of Key Terms
Operating Income
Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax-exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income tax.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income, the after-tax appreciation or depreciation on the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at market value. The appreciation or depreciation on available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
     Certain statements in this document are "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). These forward-looking statements, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA and include statements regarding management's 2007 operating income per share guidance and related assumptions, are made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning trends and future developments and their potential effects on Chubb. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include, among others, those discussed or identified from time to time in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those associated with:
 
     Chubb assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information set forth in this document, which speak as of the date hereof.
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
In December 2005, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 28,000,000 shares of the Corporation's common stock. No shares remain under the 2005 share repurchase authorization.
In December 2006, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 20,000,000 shares of the Corporation's common stock. In March 2007, the Board of Directors authorized an increase of 20,000,000 shares to the authorization approved in December 2006. The authorization has no expiration date. As of June 30, 2007, 18,119,361 shares remained under the share repurchase authorization.
 
 
After tax annualized yield is based on the average invested assets for the periods presented with fixed maturities at amortized cost and equity securities at market value.
Statutory Policyholders' Surplus and Net Premiums Written include all domestic and foreign property and casualty subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax-exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income taxes.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income, the after-tax appreciation or depreciation on the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at market value. The appreciation or depreciation on available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Ratio or Combined Loss and Expense Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.


