FILE:CB/CB-8K-20090423162344.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information, including the text of the exhibits attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. On April 23, 2009, The Chubb Corporation (Chubb) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. On April 23, 2009, Chubb also posted on its web site at www.chubb.com the Supplementary Investor Information Report (SIIR) relating to its 2009 first quarter results. Copies of the press release and the SIIR, both of which are incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02 as if fully set forth herein, are attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively. In its press release, the SIIR and the conference call to discuss its 2009 first quarter results, scheduled to be webcast at 5:00 P.M. on April 23, 2009, Chubb presents, and will present, its results of operations in the manner that it believes is most meaningful to investors, which includes certain measures that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     WARREN, New Jersey, April 23, 2009  The Chubb Corporation [NYSE: CB] today reported that net income in the first quarter of 2009 was $341 million or $0.95 per share, compared to $664 million or $1.77 per share in the first quarter of 2008.
     Operating income, which the company defines as net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses, declined to $514 million from $620 million in the first quarter of 2008. Operating income per share decreased 13% to $1.43 in the first quarter of 2009 from $1.65 in the first quarter of 2008.
     Net written premiums for the first quarter decreased 7% to $2.7 billion. Excluding the effect of currency fluctuation, premiums were down 2%. Premiums declined 5% in the U.S. and 12% outside the U.S. (increased 5% in local currencies).
     The first quarter combined loss and expense ratio was 88.1% in 2009, compared to 83.9% in 2008. The impact of catastrophes accounted for 0.9 percentage points of the combined ratio in the first quarter of 2009, compared to 1.8 percentage points in the first quarter of 2008. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, the first quarter combined ratio was 87.2% in 2009 and 82.1% in 2008. The expense ratio for the first quarter was 30.8% in 2009 and 30.5% in 2008.
     Property and casualty investment income after taxes for the first quarter declined 6% to $306 million in 2009 from $327 million in 2008, largely due to currency fluctuation.
     Net income for the first quarter of 2009 reflects net realized investment losses, including impairments, of $266 million before tax ($0.48 per share after-tax), stemming primarily from the company's alternative investments. Realized gains and losses for alternative investments are generally reported on a one-quarter lag; the losses in the first quarter of 2009 reflect the significant global decline in asset values in the fourth quarter of 2008. Net income for the first quarter of 2008 included net realized investment gains of $68 million before tax ($0.12 per share after-tax).
 
     "In the first quarter, Chubb continued to perform well in a difficult economic and investment environment," said John D. Finnegan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "We generated substantial underwriting profits, reflecting contributions from all of our business units, and our investment portfolio performed extremely well in what continued to be very volatile global capital markets.
     "In looking at developments in the quarter," said Mr. Finnegan, "we were especially pleased by the continued improvement in premium rates, as evidenced by the fact that our Commercial and Professional Liability U.S. renewal rate changes were both positive for the first time in five years."
     During the first quarter of 2009, Chubb repurchased 1,804,500 shares of its common stock at a total cost of $74 million (an average of $40.87 per share). As of March 31, 2009, there were 17,979,400 shares of common stock remaining for repurchase under the current authorization.
First Quarter Operations Review
     (CPI) net written premiums declined 4% in the first quarter to $843 million. CPI's combined ratio for the quarter was 90.0%, compared to 84.8% in the first quarter of 2008. The impact of catastrophes accounted for 1.5 percentage points in the first quarter of 2009 and 1.7 points in 2008. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, CPI's first quarter combined ratio was 88.5% in 2009 and 83.1% in 2008.
Chubb Personal Insurance
     Net written premiums for Homeowners declined 5%, and the combined ratio was 88.2%. Personal Automobile net written premiums declined 8%, and the combined ratio was 89.8%. Other Personal lines grew 1% and had a combined ratio of 97.4%.
     (CCI) net written premiums declined 6% in the first quarter to $1.3 billion. The combined ratio for the quarter was 90.2% in 2009 and 87.2% in 2008. The impact of catastrophes accounted for 1.0 percentage point in the first quarter of 2009 compared to 3.0 points in the first quarter of 2008. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, CCI's first quarter combined ratio was 89.2% in 2009 and 84.2% in 2008.
Chubb Commercial Insurance
     Average first quarter renewal rates in the U.S. were up 1% for CCI, which retained 85% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. In the U.S., the ratio of new to lost business was 1.0 to 1.
     (CSI) net written premiums were down 10% in the first quarter to $630 million. The combined ratio was 85.1%, compared to 78.1% in the first quarter of 2008.
Chubb Specialty Insurance
 
     Professional Liability (PL) net written premiums declined 8%, and the business had a combined ratio of 91.3%. Average first quarter renewal rates in the U.S. were up 1% for PL, which retained 85% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. In the U.S., the ratio of new to lost business was 1.2 to 1.
     Surety net written premiums were down 22%, and the combined ratio was 38.3%.
Webcast Conference Call to be Held Today at 5 P.M.
     Chubb's senior management will discuss the company's first quarter performance with investors and analysts today, April 23rd, at 5 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time. The conference call will be webcast live on the Internet at and archived later in the day for replay.
http://www.chubb.com
About Chubb
     Founded in 1882, the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies provide property and casualty insurance for personal and commercial customers worldwide through 8,500 independent agents and brokers. Chubb's global network includes branches and affiliates throughout North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia.
     Chubb's Supplementary Investor Information Report has been posted on its Internet site at .
http://www.chubb.com
     All financial results in this release and attachments are unaudited. 
 
Definitions of Key Terms
:
Operating Income
Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
:
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
:
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income tax.
:
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
:
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
:
Net Written Premiums Growth (Decrease) Excluding the Impact of Currency Fluctuation
Management uses net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate the trends in net written premiums, exclusive of the effect of fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which our international business is transacted.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
     In the conference call identified above and otherwise, we may make statements regarding our results of operations, financial condition and other matters that are "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA. Forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning trends and future developments and their potential effects on Chubb. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include, among others, those discussed or identified from time to time in Chubb's public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those associated with:
 
Chubb assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information set forth in this document, which speak as of the date hereof.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Beginning in the third quarter of 2008, the "net losses paid" and "increase (decrease) in outstanding losses" amounts in the property and casualty underwriting results reflect the impact of foreign currency fluctuations differently than in the past.
The property and casualty underwriting results for 2008 that follow this page reflect modification to previously reported net losses paid and increase (decrease) in outstanding losses. Since net losses paid and increase (decrease) in outstanding losses for each line of business and in total have been modified by offsetting amounts, incurred losses for each line of business and in total are unchanged.
 
 
 
In December 2005 and December 2006, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 28,000,000 shares and 20,000,000 shares, respectively, of the Corporation's common stock. In March 2007, the Board of Directors authorized an increase of 20,000,000 shares to the authorization approved in 2006. In December 2007, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 28,000,000 shares of the Corporation's common stock. No shares remain under these share repurchase authorizations.
In December 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 20,000,000 shares of the Corporation's common stock. The authorization has no expiration date. As of March 31, 2009, 17,979,400 shares remained under the share repurchase authorization.
 
 
 
After-tax annualized yield is based on the average invested assets for the periods presented, with fixed maturities at amortized cost and equity securities at fair value.
Statutory Policyholders' Surplus and Net Premiums Written include all domestic and foreign property and casualty subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
*   Combined, loss and expense ratios are no longer presented for Reinsurance Assumed since this business is in run-off.
 
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consistof four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss)determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income taxes.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations.It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Operating Return on Equity
Operating return on equity, a non-GAAP measure, is the ratio of annualized operating income divided by average shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities and equity securities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities and equity securities is subject to fluctuation and could distort the analysis of trends. Average shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments is the average of the current quarter-end, prior year-end and interim quarter-end balances. Management uses operating return on equity, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the Corporation.


