FILE:CB/CB-8K-20091022163216.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
     WARREN, New Jersey, October 22, 2009  The Chubb Corporation [NYSE: CB] today reported that net income in the third quarter of 2009 was $596 million or $1.69 per share, compared to $264 million or $0.73 per share in the third quarter of 2008.
     Operating income, which the company defines as net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses, increased 63% to $552 million from $338 million in the third quarter of 2008. Operating income per share increased 68% to $1.56 from $0.93.
     Total net written premiums for the third quarter declined 7% to $2.7 billion from $2.9 billion; they declined 5% excluding the effect of foreign currency translation. Premiums were down 7% in the U.S. and down 7% outside the U.S. (up 1% in local currencies).
     The third quarter combined loss and expense ratio was 85.4% in 2009, compared to 98.1% in 2008. Catastrophe losses in the third quarter of 2009 accounted for 0.8 percentage points of the combined ratio, compared to 13.6 points in the third quarter of 2008 which included Hurricane Ike. Excluding catastrophe losses, the third quarter combined ratio was 84.6% in 2009 and 84.5% in 2008. The expense ratio for the third quarter was 31.2% in 2009 and 30.2% in 2008.
     Property and casualty investment income after taxes for the third quarter declined 3% to $317 million in 2009 from $327 million in 2008.
     During the third quarter, Chubb repurchased 8,666,502 shares of its common stock at a total cost of $412 million. As of September 30, 2009, there were 7,002,869 shares of common stock remaining under the current repurchase authorization.
 
     "Following a very strong second quarter, Chubb delivered even better financial results in the third quarter," said John D. Finnegan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "While the difficult economic environment continued to adversely affect premium growth, we remained focused on bottom-line earnings and increasing shareholder value through disciplined underwriting, our conservative investment strategy and active capital management. Successful execution has enabled us to deliver consistent profits, excellent returns on equity and robust growth in book value. Results for the third quarter also benefited from a benign hurricane season," he said.
     "We were pleased by continued renewal rate increases for commercial and specialty insurance in the third quarter in what is a very competitive marketplace," said Mr. Finnegan. "Finally, our strong capital position allowed us to repurchase 8.7 million shares in the third quarter, and we expect to complete the repurchase of all remaining 7 million shares under our current authorization by the end of 2009," he said.
     "In light of these results, we are increasing our 2009 full-year operating income per share guidance to a range of $5.90 to $6.00 from the $5.20 to $5.50 range we provided in July. This revised guidance is based on operating income per share of $4.49 in the first nine months and our forecasted range of $1.41 to $1.51 for the fourth quarter," said Mr. Finnegan.
     The revised guidance for 2009 operating income per share assumes 2 percentage points of catastrophe losses in the fourth quarter, bringing the catastrophe loss assumption for the year to 1.3 points, compared to the assumption of 3 points in the July guidance.
     Guidance and related assumptions are subject to the risks outlined in the company's forward-looking information safe harbor statement below.
Nine-Month Results
     For the first nine months of 2009, net income was $1.5 billion or $4.18 per share, compared with $1.4 billion or $3.78 per share for the first nine months of 2008.
     Operating income for the first nine months increased 8% to $1.6 billion in 2009 from $1.5 billion in 2008. Operating income per share for the first nine months increased 13% to $4.49 from $3.99.
     Total net written premiums for the first nine months declined 7% to $8.3 billion from $8.9 billion; they were down 4% excluding the effect of foreign currency translation. Premiums declined 5% in the U.S. and declined 11% outside the U.S. (increased 3% in local currencies).
 
     The combined loss and expense ratio for the first nine months was 86.5% in 2009, compared to 90.2% in 2008. Catastrophe losses in the first nine months accounted for 1.1 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2009, compared to 6.9 points in 2008. Excluding catastrophe losses, the combined ratio for the first nine months was 85.4% in 2009 and 83.3% in 2008. The expense ratio for the first nine months was 30.7% in 2009 and 30.2% in 2008.
     Property and casualty investment income after taxes for the first nine months declined 5% to $935 million in 2009 from $981 million in 2008.
     During the first nine months of 2009, Chubb repurchased 12,781,031 shares of its common stock at a total cost of $576 million.
Third Quarter Operations Review
     (CPI) net written premiums declined 5% in the third quarter of 2009 to $946 million. CPI's combined ratio for the quarter was 81.6%, compared to 100.7% in the third quarter of 2008. The impact of catastrophes for the third quarter of 2009 improved the combined ratio by 1 percentage point, largely due to subrogation recoveries. In the third quarter of 2008, catastrophe losses were 16.3 percentage points.
Chubb Personal Insurance
     Net written premiums for Homeowners declined 4%and the combined ratio was 77.3%. Personal Automobile net written premiums declined 3%, and the combined ratio was 87.2%. Other Personal lines premiums were down 10%, and the combined ratio was 90.9%.
,
     (CCI) net written premiums declined 8% in the third quarter to $1.1 billion. CCI's combined ratio for the quarter was 90.5% in 2009 and 106.0% in 2008. Catastrophe losses accounted for 2.6 percentage points of the combined ratio in the third quarter of 2009 and 19.9 points in the third quarter of 2008.
Chubb Commercial Insurance
     Average third quarter renewal rates in the U.S. were up 3% for CCI, which retained 82% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. In the U.S., the ratio of new to lost business was 0.8 to 1.
     (CSI) net written premiums declined 6% in the third quarter to $669 million. CSI's combined ratio for the quarter was 83.6%, compared to 82.3% in the third quarter of 2008.
Chubb Specialty Insurance
 
     Professional Liability (PL) net written premiums declined 5%, and the business had a combined ratio of 90.0%. Average third quarter renewal rates in the U.S. were up 3% for PL, which retained 84% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. In the U.S., the ratio of new to lost business was 0.9 to 1.
     Surety net written premiums declined 12%, and the combined ratio was 32.5%.
Webcast Conference Call to be Held Today at 5 P.M.
     Chubb's senior management will discuss the company's third quarter performance with investors and analysts today, October 22nd at 5 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time. The conference call will be webcast live on the Internet at and archived later in the day for replay.
http://www.chubb.com
About Chubb
     Founded in 1882, the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies provides property and casualty insurance for personal and commercial customers worldwide through 8,500 independent agents and brokers. Chubb's global network includes branches and affiliates throughout North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia.
     Chubb's Supplementary Investor Information Report has been posted on its Internet site at .
http://www.chubb.com
     All financial results in this release and attachments are unaudited.
 
Definitions of Key Terms
: Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Operating Income
: Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
: Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income tax.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
: Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
: The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
: Management uses net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate the trends in net written premiums, exclusive of the effect of fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which our international business is transacted.
Net Written Premiums Growth (Decrease) Excluding the Impact of Currency Fluctuation
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
     Certain statements in this document are "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA and include statements regarding management's 2009 operating income per share guidance and related assumptions as well as Chubb's share repurchase program. Forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning trends and future developments and their potential effects on Chubb. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include, among others, those discussed or identified from time to time in Chubb's public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those associated with:
 
Chubb assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information set forth in this document, which speak as of the date hereof.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
In December 2005 and December 2006, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 28,000,000 shares and 20,000,000 shares, respectively, of the Corporation's common stock. In March 2007, the Board of Directors authorized an increase of 20,000,000 shares to the authorization approved in 2006. In December 2007, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 28,000,000 shares of the Corporation's common stock. No shares remain under these share repurchase authorizations.
In December 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 20,000,000 shares of the Corporation's common stock. The authorization has no expiration date. As of September 30, 2009, 7,002,869 shares remained under the share repurchase authorization.
 
 
 
After-tax annualized yield is based on the average invested assets for the periods presented, with fixed maturities at amortized cost and equity securities at fair value.
Statutory Policyholders' Surplus and Net Premiums Written include all domestic and foreign property and casualty subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income taxes.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) , the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Operating Income
Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Return on Equity and Operating Return on Equity
Return on equity is the ratio of annualized net income divided by average shareholders' equity. Average shareholders' equity is the average of the beginning and all quarter-end balances within the period.
Operating return on equity, a non-GAAP measure, is the ratio of annualized operating income divided by average shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities and equity securities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities and equity securities is subject to fluctuation and could distort the analysis of trends. Average shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments is the average of the beginning and all quarter-end balances within the period. Management uses operating return on equity, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the Corporation.


