FILE:CB/CB-8K-20090723162138.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     WARREN, New Jersey, July 23, 2009  The Chubb Corporation [NYSE: CB] today reported that net income in the second quarter of 2009 was $551 million or $1.54 per share, compared to $469 million or $1.27 per share in the second quarter of 2008.
     Operating income, which the company defines as net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses, increased to $533 million from $518 million in the second quarter of 2008. Operating income per share increased 6% to $1.49 from $1.40.
     Total net written premiums for the second quarter of 2009 were $2.8 billion, a decline of 7% from premiums of $3.0 billion in the second quarter of 2008. Excluding the effect of foreign currency translation, premiums were down approximately 3% in the second quarter of 2009. Premiums were down 5% in the U.S. and down 12% outside the U.S. (up 3% in local currencies).
     The second quarter combined loss and expense ratio was 85.9% in 2009, compared to 88.5% in 2008. Catastrophe losses for the second quarter of 2009 accounted for 1.5 percentage points of the combined ratio. In the second quarter of 2008, catastrophe losses accounted for 5.4 points of the combined ratio. The expense ratio for the second quarter was 30.2% in 2009 and 29.8% in 2008.
     Property and casualty investment income after taxes for the second quarter declined 5% to $312 million in 2009 from $327 million in 2008.
     During the second quarter, Chubb repurchased 2,310,029 shares of its common stock at a total cost of $90 million. As of June 30, 2009, there were 15,669,371 shares of common stock remaining under the current repurchase authorization.
 
     "Chubb's excellent results in the second quarter demonstrate our ability to deliver superior performance to our customers and shareholders in a very challenging economic environment," said John D. Finnegan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "Chubb performed very well across the board in underwriting, investments and earnings, and this is reflected in our strong return on equity and in the significant increase in our book value per share. These results were achieved through our focus on underwriting discipline, our conservative investment philosophy and our strong capital position, all of which continue to differentiate Chubb in the marketplace. We also saw a continuation of the positive momentum in commercial and specialty premium rate increases that we have seen in recent quarters.
     "In light of Chubb's earnings in the first half and our outlook for the rest of the year," said Mr. Finnegan, "we are increasing our 2009 guidance for operating income per share to a range of $5.20 to $5.50. Given our strong capital position and the improved capital market environment, we also intend to accelerate the timing of our share repurchases. We now expect to repurchase by the end of this year all of the 15.7 million shares remaining as of June 30, 2009 under our current share repurchase authorization."
     Mr. Finnegan also said that John J. Degnan, Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer, will defer his expected retirement until December 31, 2010 and that the company would announce a decision about filling his responsibilities later next year.
Six-Month Results
     For the first six months of 2009, net income was $892 million or $2.49 per share, compared with $1.1 billion or $3.04 per share for the first half of 2008. Operating income for the first half of 2009 totaled $1.0 billion or $2.92 per share, compared with $1.1 billion or $3.05 per share for the first half of 2008.
     Total net written premiums for the first six months declined 7% to $5.6 billion. Excluding the effect of foreign currency translation, premiums were down approximately 3% in the first half of 2009. Premiums declined 5% in the U.S. and declined 12% outside the U.S. (increased 4% in local currencies).
     The combined loss and expense ratio for the first six months was 87.0% in 2009, compared to 86.2% in 2008. Catastrophe losses in the first half accounted for 1.2 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2009 and 3.6 points in 2008. The expense ratio for the first six months was 30.5% in 2009 and 30.1% in 2008.
     Property and casualty investment income after taxes for the first six months declined 6% to $618 million in 2009 from $654 million in 2008.
 
     During the first six months, Chubb repurchased 4,114,529 shares of its common stock at a total cost of $164 million.
Outlook for 2009
     The new 2009 operating income per share guidance of $5.20 to $5.50 replaces the guidance of $4.80 to $5.20 that was provided last January. The updated operating income guidance assumes:
     Guidance and related assumptions are subject to the risks outlined in the company's forward-looking information safe-harbor statement below.
 
Second Quarter Operations Review
     (CPI) net written premiums declined 5% in the second quarter to $961 million. CPI's combined ratio for the quarter was 84.2%, compared to 81.9% in the second quarter of 2008. Catastrophe losses for the quarter accounted for 3.2 percentage points in 2009 and 4.5 points in 2008.
Chubb Personal Insurance
     Net written premiums for Homeowners declined 5%and the combined ratio was 80.7%. Personal Automobile net written premiums declined 9%, and the combined ratio was 90.5%. Other Personal lines premiums declined 2%, and the combined ratio was 90.7%.
,
     (CCI) net written premiums declined 7% in the second quarter to $1.2 billion. The combined ratio for the second quarter was 89.2% in 2009 and 93.7% in 2008. Catastrophe losses accounted for 1.2 percentage points in the second quarter of 2009 and 9.2 percentage points in the second quarter of 2008.
Chubb Commercial Insurance
     Average second quarter renewal rates in the U.S. were up 2% for CCI, which retained 83% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. In the U.S., the ratio of new to lost business was 1.0 to 1.
     (CSI) net written premiums declined 6% in the second quarter to $669 million. The combined ratio was 83.9%, compared to 89.3% in the second quarter of 2008.
Chubb Specialty Insurance
     Professional Liability (PL) net written premiums declined 7%, and the business had a combined ratio of 90.1%. Average second quarter renewal rates in the U.S. were up 4% for PL, which retained 83% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. In the U.S., the ratio of new to lost business was 0.9 to 1.
     Surety net written premiums were flat, and the combined ratio was 38.5%.
Webcast Conference Call to be Held Today at 5 P.M.
     Chubb's senior management will discuss the company's second quarter performance with investors and analysts today, July 23rd, at 5 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time. The conference call will be webcast live on the Internet at and archived later in the day for replay.
http://www.chubb.com
 
About Chubb
     Founded in 1882, the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies provides property and casualty insurance for personal and commercial customers worldwide through 8,500 independent agents and brokers. Chubb's global network includes branches and affiliates throughout North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia.
     Chubb's Supplementary Investor Information Report has been posted on its Internet site at .
http://www.chubb.com
     All financial results in this release and attachments are unaudited.
 
Definitions of Key Terms
: Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Operating Income
: Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
: Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income tax.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
: Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
: The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
: Management uses net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate the trends in net written premiums, exclusive of the effect of fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which our international business is transacted.
Net Written Premiums Growth (Decrease) Excluding the Impact of Currency Fluctuation
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
     Certain statements in this document are "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA and include statements regarding management's 2009 operating income per share guidance and related assumptions as well as Chubb's share repurchase program. Forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning trends and future developments and their potential effects on Chubb. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include, among others, those discussed or identified from time to time in Chubb's public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those associated with:
 
Chubb assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information set forth in this document, which speak as of the date hereof.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Beginning in the third quarter of 2008, the "net losses paid" and "increase (decrease) in outstanding losses" amounts in the property and casualty underwriting results reflect the impact of foreign currency fluctuations differently than in the past.
The property and casualty underwriting results for 2008 that follow this page reflect modification to previously reported net losses paid and increase (decrease) in outstanding losses. Since net losses paid and increase (decrease) in outstanding losses for each line of business and in total have been modified by offsetting amounts, incurred losses for each line of business and in total are unchanged.
 
 
 
In December 2005 and December 2006, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 28,000,000 shares and 20,000,000 shares, respectively, of the Corporation's common stock. In March 2007, the Board of Directors authorized an increase of 20,000,000 shares to the authorization approved in 2006. In December 2007, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 28,000,000 shares of the Corporation's common stock. No shares remain under these share repurchase authorizations.
In December 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 20,000,000 shares of the Corporation's common stock. The authorization has no expiration date. As of June 30, 2009, 15,669,371 shares remained under the share repurchase authorization.
 
 
 
After-tax annualized yield is based on the average invested assets for the periods presented, with fixed maturities at amortized cost and equity securities at fair value.
Statutory Policyholders' Surplus and Net Premiums Written include all domestic and foreign property and casualty subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income taxes.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Operating Income
Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Return on Equity and Operating Return on Equity
Return on equity is the ratio of annualized net income divided by average shareholders' equity. Average shareholders' equity is the average of the beginning and all quarter-end balances within the period.
Operating return on equity, a non-GAAP measure, is the ratio of annualized operating income divided by average shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities and equity securities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities and equity securities is subject to fluctuation and could distort the analysis of trends. Average shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments is the average of the beginning and all quarter-end balances within the period. Management uses operating return on equity, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the Corporation.


