FILE:CB/CB-8K-20100722161150.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     WARREN, New Jersey, July 22, 2010  The Chubb Corporation [NYSE: CB] today reported that net income in the second quarter of 2010 was $518 million compared to $551 million in the second quarter of 2009. Net income per share increased 3% to $1.59 from $1.54.
     Average diluted shares outstanding for the second quarter were 326.7 million in 2010 and 357.4 million in 2009.
     Operating income, which the company defines as net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses, was $460 million in the second quarter of 2010 compared to $533 million in the second quarter of 2009. Operating income per share declined 5% to $1.41 from $1.49.
     The impact of catastrophes in the second quarter of 2010 was $193 million pre-tax, compared with $43 million pre-tax in the second quarter of 2009. The $193 million reflects the impact of numerous storms throughout the United States, the most significant of which was the May hailstorm in Oklahoma.
     The impact of catastrophes on second quarter net income and operating income per share was $0.38 in 2010 and $0.08 in 2009.
     Net written premiums for the second quarter of 2010 were $2.9 billion, an increase of 1% from $2.8 billion in the second quarter of 2009. Excluding the effect of foreign currency translation, premiums were flat. Premiums declined 1% in the U.S. and increased 11% outside the U.S. (increased 3% in local currencies).
 
     The second quarter combined loss and expense ratio was 90.4% in 2010, compared to 85.9% in 2009. The impact of catastrophes in the second quarter of 2010 accounted for 6.9 percentage points of the combined ratio, compared to 1.5 points in the second quarter of 2009. Excluding catastrophes, the combined ratio for the second quarter was 83.5% in 2010 and 84.4% in 2009.
     The expense ratio for the second quarter was 30.9% in 2010 and 30.2% in 2009.
     Property and casualty investment income after taxes for the second quarter was $311 million in 2010 and $312 million in 2009.
     Net income for the second quarter of 2010 reflected net realized investment gains of $90 million pre-tax ($0.18 per share after-tax), compared to $27 million pre-tax ($0.05 per share after-tax) in the second quarter of 2009.
     During the second quarter, Chubb repurchased 12.4 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $636 million (an average of $51.14 per share). As of June 30, 2010, there were 16.8 million shares of common stock remaining under the current repurchase authorization, including the 14 million share increase in the authorization announced in June.
     "Chubb's second quarter operating income per share of $1.41 is an outstanding result given the competitive pressures in the insurance marketplace and the $0.38 per share negative impact of catastrophe losses," said John D. Finnegan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "Results were again driven by solid underwriting performance in each of our business units, producing an overall combined ratio excluding catastrophes of 83.5%. This is consistent with our first quarter performance, resulting in a combined ratio excluding catastrophes of 82.4% for the first six months of 2010, a 3.4 point improvement over the first half of 2009.
     "Because of the unusually high level of catastrophe losses in the first six months of 2010," said Mr. Finnegan, "we have increased our catastrophe assumption for our full-year guidance from 3 points to 7 points. Nevertheless, in light of the better than expected underlying performance of our businesses in the first half of the year and our outlook for the second half, we are affirming the guidance we provided last January for full-year 2010 operating income per share of $5.15 to $5.55."
 
Six-Month Results
     For the first six months of 2010, net income was $982 million or $2.97 per share, compared with $892 million or $2.49 per share for the first half of 2009. Operating income for the first half of 2010 totaled $841 million or $2.54 per share, compared with $1.0 billion or $2.92 per share for the first half of 2009.
     The impact of catastrophes in the first six months of 2010 was $537 million pre-tax, compared with $69 million pre-tax in the first half of 2009. The impact of catastrophes on net income and operating income per share for the first six months was $1.06 in 2010 and $0.13 in 2009. The impact of catastrophes includes losses and loss expenses net of reinsurance recoverable and also includes reinsurance reinstatement premiums.
     During the first half of 2010, Chubb incurred a one-time tax charge of $22 million ($0.07 per share) related to the recently enacted federal health care legislation, which eliminated the tax benefit associated with Medicare Part D subsidies to be received by companies that provide qualifying prescription drug coverage to retirees.
     Net written premiums for the first six months increased 1% to $5.7 billion. Excluding the effect of foreign currency translation, premiums were down approximately 1% in the first half of 2010. Premiums declined 3% in the U.S. and increased 14% outside the U.S. (increased 2% in local currencies).
     The combined ratio for the first six months was 92.0% in 2010 compared to 87.0% in 2009. The impact of catastrophes in the first half accounted for 9.6 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2010 and 1.2 points in 2009. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, the combined ratio in the first half was 82.4% in 2010 and 85.8% in 2009.
     The expense ratio for the first six months was 31.1% in 2010 and 30.5% in 2009.
     Property and casualty investment income after taxes for the first six months increased 1% to $624 million in 2010 from $618 million in 2009.
     Net income for the first six months of 2010 reflects net realized investment gains of $217 million pre-tax ($0.43 per share after-tax). Net income for the first half of 2009 reflected net realized investment losses, including impairments, of $239 million pre-tax ($0.43 per share after-tax).
     During the first six months of 2010, Chubb repurchased 19.4 million shares of common stock at a total cost of $980 million (an average of $50.54 per share).
 
Outlook for 2010
     Chubb affirmed 2010 operating income per share guidance of $5.15 to $5.55. This guidance assumes:
     Guidance and related assumptions are subject to the risks outlined in the company's forward-looking information safe-harbor statement below.
Second Quarter Operations Review
     (CPI) net written premiums increased 5% in the second quarter to $1.0 billion. CPI's combined ratio for the quarter was 92.9%, compared to 84.2% in the second quarter of 2009. The impact of catastrophe losses for the second quarter accounted for 13.8 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2010 and 3.2 points in 2009. Excluding the impact of catastrophe losses, CPI's second quarter combined ratio was 79.1% in 2010 and 81.0% in 2009.
Chubb Personal Insurance
 
     Net written premiums for Homeowners increased 2%and the combined ratio was 94.5%. Personal Automobile net written premiums increased 14%, and the combined ratio was 90.2%. Other Personal lines premiums increased 9%, and the combined ratio was 90.5%.
,
     (CCI) net written premiums were flat in the second quarter at $1.2 billion. The combined ratio for the second quarter was 92.9% in 2010 and 89.2% in 2009. The impact of catastrophe losses for the second quarter accounted for 5.6 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2010 and 1.2 points in 2009. Excluding the impact of catastrophe losses, CCI's second quarter combined ratio was 87.3% in 2010 and 88.0% in 2009.
Chubb Commercial Insurance
     Average second quarter renewal rates in the U.S. were flat for CCI, which retained 86% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. In the U.S., the ratio of new to lost business was 1.3 to 1.
     (CSI) net written premiums were flat in the second quarter at $666 million. The combined ratio was 82.5%, compared to 83.9% in the second quarter of 2009.
Chubb Specialty Insurance
     Professional Liability (PL) net written premiums were flat, and the business had a combined ratio of 87.2%. In the U.S., average second quarter PL renewal rates were down 3%, premium renewal retention was 86% and the ratio of new to lost business was 1.0 to 1.
     Surety net written premiums were down 2%, and the combined ratio was 47.7%.
Webcast Conference Call to be Held Today at 5 P.M.
     Chubb's senior management will discuss the company's second quarter performance with investors and analysts today, July 22nd, at 5 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time. The conference call will be webcast live on the Internet at and archived later in the day for replay.
http://www.chubb.com
 
About Chubb
     Founded in 1882, the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies provides property and casualty insurance for personal and commercial customers worldwide through 8,500 independent agents and brokers. Chubb's global network includes branches and affiliates throughout North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia.
     Chubb's Supplementary Investor Information Report has been posted on its Internet site at .
http://www.chubb.com
     All financial results in this release and attachments are unaudited.
 
Definitions of Key Terms
: Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Operating Income
: Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
: Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income tax.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
: Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
: The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
: Management uses net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate the trends in net written premiums, exclusive of the effect of fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which our international business is transactedIn net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation, the effect of fluctuations in the exchange rates is excluded as these rates may fluctuate significantly and could distort the analysis of trends. Net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation is determined by using the same exchange rate to translate each foreign currency denominated net written premium amount in both periods.
Net Written Premiums Growth (Decrease) Excluding the Impact of Currency Fluctuation
.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
     Certain statements in this document are "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). Forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA and include statements regarding management's 2010 operating income per share guidance and related assumptions. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "optimistic," "intend," "plan," "will," "may," "should," "could," "would," "likely," "estimate," "predict," "potential," "continue," or other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning trends and future developments and their potential effects on Chubb. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include, among others, those discussed or identified from time to time in Chubb's public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those associated with:
 
Chubb assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information set forth in this document, which speak as of the date hereof.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
In December 2005 and December 2006, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 28,000,000 shares and 20,000,000 shares, respectively, of the Corporation's common stock. In March 2007, the Board of Directors authorized an increase of 20,000,000 shares to the authorization approved in 2006. In December 2007 and 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 28,000,000 shares and 20,000,000 shares, respectively, of the Corporation's common stock. No shares remain under these share repurchase authorizations.
In December 2009, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 25,000,000 shares of the Corporation's common stock. In June 2010, the Board of Directors authorized an increase of 14,000,000 shares to the authorization approved in December 2009. The authorization has no expiration date. As of June 30, 2010, 16,765,307 shares remained under the share repurchase authorization.
 
 
 
After-tax annualized yield is based on the average invested assets for the periods presented, with fixed maturities at amortized cost and equity securities at fair value.
Statutory Policyholders' Surplus and Net Premiums Written include all domestic and foreign property and casualty subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income taxes.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Operating Income
Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Return on Equity and Operating Return on Equity
Return on equity is the ratio of annualized net income divided by average shareholders' equity. Average shareholders' equity is the average of the beginning and all quarter-end balances within the period.
Operating return on equity, a non-GAAP measure, is the ratio of annualized operating income divided by average shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities and equity securities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities and equity securities is subject to fluctuation and could distort the analysis of trends. Average shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments is the average of the beginning and all quarter-end balances within the period. Management uses operating return on equity, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the Corporation.


