FILE:CB/CB-8K-20100422161124.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(908) 903-2000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     WARREN, New Jersey, April 22, 2010  The Chubb Corporation [NYSE: CB] today reported that net income in the first quarter of 2010 was $464 million compared to $341 million in the first quarter of 2009. Net income per share increased 46% to $1.39 from $0.95 per share.
     Operating income, which the company defines as net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses, was $381 million in the first quarter of 2010 and $514 million in the first quarter of 2009. First quarter operating income per share declined 20% to $1.14 in 2010 from $1.43 in 2009.
     The impact of catastrophes in the first quarter of 2010 was $344 million pre-tax, compared with $26 million pre-tax in the first quarter of 2009. The $344 million includes the impact of a late-March storm on the East Coast of the U.S. that produced additional losses that were not included in the March 29th announcement of Chubb's estimated first-quarter impact of catastrophes. The impact of catastrophes includes losses and loss expenses net of reinsurance recoverable and also includes reinsurance reinstatement premiums.
     The impact of catastrophes on first quarter net income and operating income per share was $0.67 in 2010 and $0.05 in 2009.
     During the first quarter of 2010, Chubb incurred a one-time tax charge of $22 million ($0.07 per share) related to the recently enacted federal health care legislation, which eliminated the tax benefit associated with Medicare Part D subsidies to be received by companies that provide qualifying prescription drug coverage to retirees.
     Net written premiums for the first quarter increased 1% to $2.8 billion. Excluding the effect of currency fluctuation, premiums were down 3%. Premiums declined 4% in the U.S. and increased 16% outside the U.S. (increased 2% in local currencies).
 
     The first quarter combined loss and expense ratio was 93.6% in 2010 compared to 88.1% in 2009. The impact of catastrophes accounted for 12.3 percentage points of the combined ratio in the first quarter of 2010, compared to 0.9 percentage points in the first quarter of 2009. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, the first quarter combined ratio was 81.3% in 2010 and 87.2% in 2009.
     The expense ratio for the first quarter was 31.3% in 2010 and 30.8% in 2009.
     Property and casualty investment income after taxes for the first quarter increased 2% to $313 million in 2010 from $306 million in 2009.
     Net income for the first quarter of 2010 reflects net realized investment gains of $127 million pre-tax ($0.25 per share after-tax). Net income for the first quarter of 2009 reflected net realized investment losses, including impairments, of $266 million pre-tax ($0.48 per share after-tax).
     "The headline for the property and casualty insurance industry in the first quarter was the extraordinary level of natural catastrophes worldwide, including the earthquake in Chile, storms in Australia and Europe and several severe storms on the East Coast of the U.S.," said John D. Finnegan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "Although these catastrophes had a negative impact of $0.67 per share on Chubb's first quarter results, we still produced strong operating income of $1.14 per share for the quarter  an excellent result. This reflected outstanding underwriting results, with a combined ratio excluding catastrophes of 81.3%, nearly 6 percentage points better than a year ago. This was our best combined ratio excluding catastrophes since 2007 and was driven by strong contributions from all of our business units," said Mr. Finnegan.
     "I am very pleased with our underlying financial performance in the quarter," Mr. Finnegan said, "and I am also very proud of the way Chubb's employees responded to the needs of our customers across the globe as a result of these catastrophes. Our commitment to superior customer service is once again differentiating Chubb in the marketplace. We understand that a loss is an opportunity to prove to our customers the value proposition we offer."
     During the first quarter of 2010, Chubb repurchased 7 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $344 million (an average of $49.47 per share). As of March 31, 2010, there were 15.2 million shares of common stock remaining for repurchase under the current authorization.
 
First Quarter Operations Review
     (CPI) net written premiums increased 4% in the first quarter to $874 million. CPI's combined ratio for the quarter was 104.4%, compared to 90.0% in the first quarter of 2009. The impact of catastrophes accounted for 22.8 percentage points in the first quarter of 2010 compared to 1.5 points in 2009. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, CPI's first quarter combined ratio was 81.6% in 2010 and 88.5% in 2009.
Chubb Personal Insurance
     Net written premiums for Homeowners increased 1%, and the combined ratio was 113.3% compared to 88.2% in the year-ago first quarter. The impact of catastrophes in the first quarter accounted for 35.1 percentage points of the Homeowners combined ratio in 2010 compared to 2.4 points in 2009. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, the combined ratio for Homeowners in the first quarter was 78.2% in 2010 and 85.8% in 2009. In the first quarter of 2010, Personal Automobile net written premiums increased 11%, and the combined ratio was 91.5%. Other Personal lines grew 7% and had a combined ratio of 87.5%.
     (CCI) net written premiums declined 1% in the first quarter to $1.2 billion. The combined ratio for the quarter was 93.8% in 2010 and 90.2% in 2009. The impact of catastrophes in the first quarter accounted for 11.4 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2010 compared to 1.0 points in 2009. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, CCI's first quarter combined ratio was 82.4% in 2010 and 89.2% in 2009.
Chubb Commercial Insurance
     Average first quarter renewal rates in the U.S. were up 1% for CCI, which retained 84% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. In the U.S., the ratio of new to lost business was 1.0 to 1.
     (CSI) net written premiums were up 3% in the first quarter to $646 million. The combined ratio for CSI was 80.9%, compared to 85.1% in the first quarter of 2009.
Chubb Specialty Insurance
     Professional Liability (PL) net written premiums were up 3%, and the business had a combined ratio of 86.2%. Average first quarter renewal rates in the U.S. were down 1% for PL, which retained 85% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. In the U.S., the ratio of new to lost business was 1.0 to 1.
     Surety net written premiums were down 1%, and the combined ratio was 39.8%.
 
Webcast Conference Call to be Held Today at 5 P.M.
     Chubb's senior management will discuss the company's first quarter performance with investors and analysts today, April 22nd, at 5 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time. The conference call will be webcast live on the Internet at and archived later in the day for replay.
http://www.chubb.com
About Chubb
     Founded in 1882, the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies provides property and casualty insurance for personal and commercial customers worldwide through 8,500 independent agents and brokers. Chubb's global network includes branches and affiliates throughout North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia.
     Chubb's Supplementary Investor Information Report has been posted on its Internet site at .
http://www.chubb.com
     All financial results in this release and attachments are unaudited.
 
Definitions of Key Terms
: Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Operating Income
: Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
: Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income tax.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
: Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
: The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
: Management uses net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate the trends in net written premiums, exclusive of the effect of fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which our international business is transactedIn net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation, the effect of fluctuations in the exchange rates is excluded as these rates may fluctuate significantly and could distort the analysis of trends. Net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation is determined by using the same exchange rate to translate each foreign currency denominated net written premium amount in both periods.
Net Written Premiums Growth (Decrease) Excluding the Impact of Currency Fluctuation
.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
     In the conference call identified above and otherwise, we make statements regarding our results of operations, financial condition and other matters that are "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). Forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "optimistic," "intend," "plan," "will," "may," "should," "could," "would," "likely," "estimate," "predict," "potential," "continue," or other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning trends and future developments and their potential effects on Chubb. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include, among others, those discussed or identified from time to time in Chubb's public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those associated with:
 
Chubb assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information set forth in this document, which speak as of the date hereof.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
In December 2005 and December 2006, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 28,000,000 shares and 20,000,000 shares, respectively, of the Corporation's common stock. In March 2007, the Board of Directors authorized an increase of 20,000,000 shares to the authorization approved in 2006. In December 2007 and 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 28,000,000 shares and 20,000,000 shares, respectively, of the Corporation's common stock. No shares remain under these share repurchase authorizations.
In December 2009, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 25,000,000 shares of the Corporation's common stock. The authorization has no expiration date. As of March 31, 2010, 15,198,458 shares remained under the share repurchase authorization.
 
 
 
After-tax annualized yield is based on the average invested assets for the periods presented, with fixed maturities at amortized cost and equity securities at fair value.
Statutory Policyholders' Surplus and Net Premiums Written include all domestic and foreign property and casualty subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income taxes.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Operating Income
Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Return on Equity and Operating Return on Equity
Return on equity is the ratio of annualized net income divided by average shareholders' equity. Average shareholders' equity is the average of the beginning and all quarter-end balances within the period.
Operating return on equity, a non-GAAP measure, is the ratio of annualized operating income divided by average shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities and equity securities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities and equity securities is subject to fluctuation and could distort the analysis of trends. Average shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments is the average of the beginning and all quarter-end balances within the period. Management uses operating return on equity, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the Corporation.


