FILE:CB/CB-8K-20111020161432.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits Signatures Exhibit Index to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 20, 2011 Press release dated October 20, 2011 (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K) Supplementary Investor Information Report (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K)
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information, including the text of the exhibits attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. On October 20, 2011, The Chubb Corporation (Chubb) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2011. On October 20, 2011, Chubb also posted on its web site at the Supplementary Investor Information Report (SIIR) relating to its 2011 third quarter results. Copies of the press release and the SIIR, both of which are incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02 as if fully set forth herein, are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Form 8-K. In its press release, the SIIR and the conference call to discuss its 2011 third quarter results, scheduled to be webcast at 5:00 P.M. on October 20, 2011, Chubb presents, and will present, its results of operations in the manner that it believes is most meaningful to investors, which includes certain measures that are not prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
www.chubb.com
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     WARREN, New Jersey, October 20, 2011  The Chubb Corporation [NYSE: CB] today reported that net income in the third quarter of 2011 was $298 million compared to $572 million in the third quarter of 2010. Net income per share declined to $1.04 from $1.80.
     Operating income, which the company defines as net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses, was $252 million in the third quarter of 2011 compared to $537 million in the third quarter of 2010. Operating income per share declined to $0.88 from $1.69.
     The impact of catastrophes in the third quarter of 2011 was $420 million before tax, largely from Hurricane Irene as well as other storms in the U.S. In the third quarter of 2010, the impact of catastrophes was $58 million before tax. The impact of catastrophes on third quarter net income and operating income per share was $0.95 in 2011 and $0.12 in 2010.
     The third quarter combined loss and expense ratio was 102.6% in 2011 compared to 86.2% in 2010. The impact of catastrophes accounted for 14.4 percentage points of the combined ratio in the third quarter of 2011, compared to 2.1 percentage points in the third quarter of 2010. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, the third quarter combined ratio was 88.2% in 2011 and 84.1% in 2010.
     The expense ratio for the third quarter was 32.4% in 2011 and 31.7% in 2010.
 
     Net written premiums increased 5% in the third quarter of 2011 to $2.9 billion. Excluding the effect of foreign currency translation, premiums were up approximately 4%. Premiums increased 2% in the U.S. and 17% outside the U.S. (10% in local currencies).
     Property and casualty investment income after taxes for the third quarter increased 1% to $321 million in 2011 from $317 million in 2010.
     Net income for the third quarter of 2011 reflected net realized investment gains of $71 million before tax ($0.16 per share after-tax), compared to $54 million before tax ($0.11 per share after-tax) in the third quarter of 2010.
     During the third quarter, Chubb repurchased 8.0 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $480 million (an average of $59.97 per share). As of September 30, 2011, there were 6.9 million shares of common stock remaining under the current repurchase authorization.
     Average diluted shares outstanding for the third quarter were 287.8 million in 2011 and 317.3 million in 2010.
     "For the third consecutive quarter, results for Chubb and the industry were adversely affected by an unusually high level of catastrophe losses," said John D. Finnegan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "Despite these significant catastrophe losses, Chubb still produced net income for the quarter of $298 million, driven by a solid combined ratio of 88.2% excluding catastrophes, which reflects the strong underlying performance of all our business units in a challenging environment.
     "With regard to the insurance market, we were pleased to see continued incremental rate improvement in the third quarter, especially in our U.S. standard commercial book, where renewal rates were up 4% on average year over year," said Mr. Finnegan. "However, rates will need to continue to increase to offset the negative impact on industry earnings attributable to the prolonged soft market, record level of catastrophe losses and significantly lower yields currently available on investments."
Nine-Month Results
     For the first nine months of 2011, net income was $1.2 billion or $4.16 per share, compared with $1.6 billion or $4.76 per share for the first nine months of 2010. Operating income for the first nine months of 2011 totaled $1.0 billion or $3.50 per share, compared with $1.4 billion or $4.22 per share for the first nine months of 2010.
 
     The impact of catastrophes in the first nine months of 2011 was $1.0 billion before tax. In the first nine months of 2010, the impact of catastrophes was $595 million before tax. The impact of catastrophes on net income and operating income per share for the first nine months was $2.25 in 2011 and $1.19 in 2010.
     The combined ratio for the first nine months was 97.1% in 2011 compared to 90.1% in 2010. The impact of catastrophes in the first nine months accounted for 11.7 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2011 and 7.1 points in 2010. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, the combined ratio in the first nine months was 85.4% in 2011 and 83.0% in 2010.
     The expense ratio for the first nine months was 31.8% in 2011 and 31.3% in 2010.
     Net written premiums increased 5% in the first nine months of 2011 to $8.8 billion. Excluding the effect of foreign currency translation, premiums were up approximately 4% in the first nine months of 2011. Premiums increased 2% in the U.S. and 13% outside the U.S. (9% in local currencies).
     Property and casualty investment income after taxes for the first nine months increased 1% to $949 million in 2011 from $941 million in 2010.
     Net income for the first nine months of 2011 reflected net realized investment gains of $300 million before tax ($0.66 per share after-tax). Net income for the first nine months of 2010 reflected net realized investment gains of $271 million before tax ($0.54 per share after-tax).
     Average diluted shares outstanding for the first nine months were 294.4 million in 2011 and 326.3 million in 2010.
     During the first nine months of 2011, Chubb repurchased 21.6 million shares of common stock at a total cost of $1.3 billion (an average of $61.24 per share).
Outlook for 2011
     "Based on the high level of catastrophe losses in the third quarter and our outlook for the fourth quarter," said Mr. Finnegan, "we are revising our 2011 full-year operating income per share guidance to a range of $5.10 to $5.20 from the previous guidance range of $5.55 to $5.85. This revised guidance is based on operating income per share of $3.50 in the first nine months and a range of $1.60 to $1.70 for the fourth quarter," said Mr. Finnegan.
 
     The revised guidance for 2011 operating income per share assumes an impact from catastrophes of 2 percentage points in the fourth quarter, resulting in an assumed impact of catastrophes for the year of 9.3 points, compared to the assumption of 7.5 points in the previous guidance. The revised guidance assumes 291 million average diluted shares outstanding for the year.
     The impact of each percentage point of catastrophe losses on 2011 full-year operating income per share is approximately $0.26.
     Guidance and related assumptions are subject to the risks outlined in the company's forward-looking information safe-harbor statements (see below).
Third Quarter Operations Review
     (CPI) net written premiums increased 5% in the third quarter of 2011 to $1.0 billion. CPI's combined ratio was 115.6%, compared to 85.4% in the third quarter of 2010. The impact of catastrophe losses in the third quarter accounted for 28.5 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2011 and 3.7 points in 2010. Excluding the impact of catastrophe losses, CPI's third quarter combined ratio was 87.1% in 2011 and 81.7% in 2010.
Chubb Personal Insurance
     Net written premiums for Homeowners increased 4%, and the combined ratio was 126.1%. Personal Automobile net written premiums increased 9%, and the combined ratio was 99.3%. Other Personal lines premiums increased 4%, and the combined ratio was 97.6%.
     (CCI) net written premiums were up 9% in the third quarter to $1.2 billion. The combined ratio for the third quarter was 101.1% in 2011 and 89.1% in 2010. The impact of catastrophe losses in the third quarter accounted for 11.2 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2011 and 2.0 points in 2010. Excluding the impact of catastrophe losses, CCI's third quarter combined ratio was 89.9% in 2011 and 87.1% in 2010.
Chubb Commercial Insurance
     Average third quarter renewal rates in the U.S. were up 4% for CCI, which retained 85% of the U.S. premiums that came up for renewal. In the U.S., the ratio of new to lost business was 1.0 to 1.
     (CSI) net written premiums declined 1% in the third quarter of 2011 to $665 million. The combined ratio was 88.3% compared to 83.3% in the third quarter of 2010.
Chubb Specialty Insurance
 
     Professional Liability (PL) net written premiums were up 2%, and the business had a combined ratio of 92.5%. In the U.S., average third quarter PL renewal rates were down 1%, premium renewal retention was 89% and the ratio of new to lost business was 1.3 to 1.
     Surety net written premiums were down 18%, and the combined ratio was 55.5%.
Webcast Conference Call to be held Today at 5 P.M.
     Chubb's senior management will discuss the company's third quarter performance with investors and analysts today, October 20th, at 5 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time. The conference call will be webcast live on the Internet at and archived later in the day for replay.
http://www.chubb.com
About Chubb
     Founded in 1882, the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies provides property and casualty insurance for personal and commercial customers worldwide through 8,500 independent agents and brokers. Chubb's global network includes branches and affiliates throughout North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia.
     Chubb's Supplementary Investor Information Report has been posted on its Internet site at .
http://www.chubb.com
     All financial results in this release and attachments are unaudited.
 
Definitions of Key Terms
: Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Operating Income
: Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
: Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income tax.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
: Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
: The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
: Management uses net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate the trends in net written premiums, exclusive of the effect of fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which our international business is transactedIn net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation, the effect of fluctuations in the exchange rates is excluded as these rates may fluctuate significantly and could distort the analysis of trends. Net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation is determined by using the same exchange rate to translate each foreign currency denominated net written premium amount in both periods.
Net Written Premiums Growth (Decrease) Excluding the Impact of Currency Fluctuation
.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
     In this document, the conference call identified above and otherwise, we make statements regarding our results of operations, financial condition and other matters that are "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA and include statements regarding management's 2011 operating income per share guidance and related assumptions, the repurchase of common stock under our share repurchase program and the impact of the upcoming accounting change relating to the treatment of costs associated with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts. Forward-looking statements frequently can be identified by words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "will," "may," "should," "could," "would," "likely," "estimate," "predict," "potential," "continue," or other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning trends and future developments and their potential effects on Chubb. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include, among others, those discussed or identified from time to time in Chubb's public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those associated with:
 
Chubb assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information made in this document or the above-referenced conference call, which speak as of the date hereof.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
During the period from December 2005 through September 2010, under several share repurchase authorizations the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of a total of 155 million shares of the Corporation's common stock. No shares remain under these repurchase authorizations.
In December 2010, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 30,000,000 shares of the Corporation's common stock. The authorization has no expiration date. As of September 30, 2011, 6,905,280 shares remained under the share repurchase authorization.
 
 
 
After-tax annualized yield is based on the average invested assets for the periods presented, with fixed maturities at amortized cost and equity securities at fair value.
Statutory Policyholders' Surplus and Net Premiums Written include all domestic and foreign property and casualty subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income taxes.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Operating Income
Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Return on Equity and Operating Return on Equity
Return on equity is the ratio of annualized net income divided by average shareholders' equity. Average shareholders' equity is the average of the beginning and all quarter-end balances within the period.
Operating return on equity, a non-GAAP measure, is the ratio of annualized operating income divided by average shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities and equity securities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities and equity securities is subject to fluctuation and could distort the analysis of trends. Average shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments is the average of the beginning and all quarter-end balances within the period. Management uses operating return on equity, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the Corporation.


