FILE:CB/CB-8K-20110428161135.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
The Annual Meeting of Shareholders of The Chubb Corporation (the Corporation) was held on April 26, 2011. Matters submitted to shareholders at the meeting and the voting results thereof were as follows:
The shareholders of the Corporation elected each of the director nominees proposed by the Corporation's Board of Directors to serve until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified. The following is a breakdown of the voting results:
Election of Directors.
The shareholders of the Corporation approved the adoption of The Chubb Corporation Annual Incentive Compensation Plan (2011). The following is a breakdown of the voting results:
Adoption of The Chubb Corporation Annual Incentive Compensation Plan (2011).
The shareholders of the Corporation ratified the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Corporation's independent auditor. The following is a breakdown of the voting results:
Appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Independent Auditor.
The shareholders of the Corporation approved, on an advisory basis, the Corporation's compensation program for its Named Executive Officers. The following is a breakdown of the voting results:
Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation.
The shareholders of the Corporation recommended that the shareholder advisory vote regarding the Corporation's compensation program for its Named Executive Officers take place on an annual basis. The following is a breakdown of the voting results:
Advisory Vote on the Frequency of the Shareholder Vote on Executive Compensation.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


