FILE:CB/CB-8K-20110421161110.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information, including the text of the exhibits attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. On April 21, 2011, The Chubb Corporation (Chubb) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011. On April 21, 2011, Chubb also posted on its web site at the Supplementary Investor Information Report (SIIR) relating to its 2011 first quarter results. Copies of the press release and the SIIR, both of which are incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02 as if fully set forth herein, are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Form 8-K. In its press release, the SIIR and the conference call to discuss its 2011 first quarter results, scheduled to be webcast at 5:00 P.M. on April 21, 2011, Chubb presents, and will present, its results of operations in the manner that it believes is most meaningful to investors, which includes certain measures that are not prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
www.chubb.com
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     WARREN, New Jersey, April 21, 2011  The Chubb Corporation [NYSE: CB] today reported that net income in the first quarter of 2011 was $509 million compared to $464 million in the first quarter of 2010. Net income per share increased 22% to $1.70 from $1.39 per share.
     Operating income, which the company defines as net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses, was $405 million in the first quarter of 2011 and $381 million in the first quarter of 2010. First quarter operating income per share increased 18% to $1.35 in 2011 from $1.14 in 2010.
     The impact of catastrophes in the first quarter of 2011 was $270 million before tax, including winter storms in the U.S., flooding in Australia, and earthquakes in New Zealand and Japan. In the first quarter of 2010, the impact of catastrophes was $344 million before tax. The impact of catastrophes on first quarter net income and operating income per share was $0.59 in 2011 and $0.67 in 2010. The impact of catastrophes includes losses and loss expenses net of reinsurance recoverable and also includes reinsurance reinstatement premiums.
     The first quarter combined loss and expense ratio was 93.7% in 2011 compared to 93.6% in 2010. The impact of catastrophes accounted for 9.5 percentage points of the combined ratio in the first quarter of 2011, compared to 12.3 percentage points in the first quarter of 2010. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, the first quarter combined ratio was 84.2% in 2011 and 81.3% in 2010.
     The expense ratio for the first quarter was 31.7% in 2011 and 31.3% in 2010.
     Net written premiums for the first quarter increased 3% to $2.9 billion. Premiums increased 1% in the U.S. and 10% outside the U.S. (9% in local currencies).
 
     Property and casualty investment income after taxes for the first quarter declined 1% to $310 million in 2011 from $313 million in 2010.
     Net income for the first quarter of 2011 reflected net realized investment gains of $160 million pre-tax ($0.35 per share after-tax). Net income for the first quarter of 2010 reflected net realized investment gains of $127 million pre-tax ($0.25 per share after-tax). The gains in both quarters related mostly to the company's alternative investments.
     "The big story for the property and casualty insurance industry in the first quarter was the high level of natural catastrophes around the globe," said John D. Finnegan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "Although these catastrophes had a negative impact of $0.59 per share on Chubb's first quarter results, we still produced strong operating income per share of $1.35 and net income per share of $1.70. Our combined ratio of 84.2% excluding catastrophes reflected continued outstanding underwriting performance across all of our business units.
     "While the property and casualty market environment remained competitive," said Mr. Finnegan, "net written premiums increased 3% for the second consecutive quarter, an encouraging sign. This is a positive change from the flat to negative premium growth, excluding the effect of currency fluctuation, that we experienced during each of the past five calendar years."
     During the first quarter of 2011, Chubb repurchased approximately 6.6 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $387 million (an average of $58.91 per share). As of March 31, 2011, there were 21.9 million shares of common stock remaining for repurchase under the current authorization.
     Average diluted shares outstanding for the first quarter were 300.0 million in 2011 and 335.0 million in 2010.
First Quarter Operations Review
     (CPI) net written premiums increased 2% in the first quarter to $894 million. CPI's combined ratio for the quarter was 93.8%, compared to 104.4% in the first quarter of 2010. The first-quarter impact of catastrophes accounted for 7.8 percentage points in 2011, compared to 22.8 points in 2010. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, CPI's first quarter combined ratio was 86.0% in 2011 and 81.6% in 2010.
Chubb Personal Insurance
 
     Net written premiums for Homeowners increased 3%, and the combined ratio was 94.8%. The impact of catastrophes in the first quarter accounted for 12.3 percentage points of the Homeowners combined ratio. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, the combined ratio for Homeowners was 82.5%. Personal Automobile premiums increased 11%, and the combined ratio was 92.8%. For Other Personal lines, premiums declined 6% and the combined ratio was 92.2%.
     (CCI) net written premiums increased 7% in the first quarter to $1.3 billion. The combined ratio for the quarter was 100.7% in 2011 and 93.8% in 2010. The impact of catastrophes in the first quarter accounted for 16.2 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2011, compared to 11.4 points in 2010. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, CCI's first quarter combined ratio was 84.5% in 2011 and 82.4% in 2010.
Chubb Commercial Insurance
     Average first quarter renewal rates in the U.S. were flat for CCI, and renewal premium retention was 87%. In the U.S., the ratio of new to lost business was 1.3 to 1.
     (CSI) net written premiums were down 1% in the first quarter to $639 million. The combined ratio for CSI was 82.4%, compared to 80.9% in the first quarter of 2010.
Chubb Specialty Insurance
     Professional Liability (PL) net written premiums were down 3%, and the business had a combined ratio of 86.8%. Average first quarter renewal rates for PL in the U.S. were down 3%, and renewal premium retention was 87%. In the U.S., the ratio of new to lost business was 1.1 to 1.
     Surety net written premiums were up 16%, and the combined ratio was 50.5%.
Webcast Conference Call to be Held Today at 5 P.M.
     Chubb's senior management will discuss the company's first quarter performance with investors and analysts today, April 21st, at 5 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time. The conference call will be webcast live on the Internet at and archived later in the day for replay.
http://www.chubb.com
 
About Chubb
     Founded in 1882, the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies provides property and casualty insurance for personal and commercial customers worldwide through 8,500 independent agents and brokers. Chubb's global network includes branches and affiliates throughout North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia.
     Chubb's Supplementary Investor Information Report has been posted on its Internet site at .
http://www.chubb.com
     All financial results in this release and attachments are unaudited.
 
Definitions of Key Terms
: Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Operating Income
: Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
: Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income tax.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
: Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
: The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
: Management uses net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate the trends in net written premiums, exclusive of the effect of fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which our international business is transactedIn net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation, the effect of fluctuations in the exchange rates is excluded as these rates may fluctuate significantly and could distort the analysis of trends. Net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation is determined by using the same exchange rate to translate each foreign currency denominated net written premium amount in both periods.
Net Written Premiums Growth (Decrease) Excluding the Impact of Currency Fluctuation
.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
     In the conference call identified above and otherwise, we make statements regarding our results of operations, financial condition and other matters that are "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). Forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "optimistic," "intend," "plan," "will," "may," "should," "could," "would," "likely," "estimate," "predict," "potential," "continue," or other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning trends and future developments and their potential effects on Chubb. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include, among others, those discussed or identified from time to time in Chubb's public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those associated with:
 
Chubb assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information set forth in this document, which speak as of the date hereof.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
In December 2005 and December 2006, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 28,000,000 shares and 20,000,000 shares, respectively, of the Corporation's common stock. In March 2007, the Board of Directors authorized an increase of 20,000,000 shares to the authorization approved in December 2006. In December 2007, 2008 and 2009 the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 28,000,000 shares, 20,000,000 shares and 25,000,000 shares, respectively, of the Corporation's common stock. In June 2010, the Board of Directors authorized an increase of 14,000,000 shares to the authorization approved in December 2009. No shares remain under these share repurchase authorizations.
In December 2010, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 30,000,000 shares of the Corporation's common stock. The authorization has no expiration date. As of March 31, 2011, 21,929,043 shares remained under the share repurchase authorization.
 
 
 
After-tax annualized yield is based on the average invested assets for the periods presented, with fixed maturities at amortized cost and equity securities at fair value.
Statutory Policyholders' Surplus and Net Premiums Written include all domestic and foreign property and casualty subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment performance because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income taxes.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Operating Income
Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Return on Equity and Operating Return on Equity
Return on equity is the ratio of annualized net income divided by average shareholders' equity. Average shareholders' equity is the average of the beginning and all quarter-end balances within the period.
Operating return on equity, a non-GAAP measure, is the ratio of annualized operating income divided by average shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities and equity securities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities and equity securities is subject to fluctuation and could distort the analysis of trends. Average shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments is the average of the beginning and all quarter-end balances within the period. Management uses operating return on equity, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the Corporation.


