FILE:CB/CB-8K-20120419162246.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information, including the text of the exhibits attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. On April 19, 2012, The Chubb Corporation (Chubb) issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. On April 19, 2012, Chubb also posted on its web site at the Supplementary Investor Information Report (SIIR) relating to its 2012 first quarter results. Copies of the press release and the SIIR, both of which are incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02 as if fully set forth herein, are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Form 8-K. In its press release, the SIIR and the conference call to discuss its 2012 first quarter results, scheduled to be webcast at 5:00 P.M. on April 19, 2012, Chubb presents, and will present, its results of operations in the manner that it believes is most meaningful to investors, which includes certain measures that are not prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
www.chubb.com
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
WARREN, New Jersey, April 19, 2012  The Chubb Corporation [NYSE: CB] today reported that net income in the first quarter of 2012 was $506 million, compared to $509 million in the first quarter of 2011. Net income per share increased 8% to $1.83 from $1.70 per share.
Average diluted shares outstanding for the first quarter were 276.2 million in 2012 and 300.0 million in 2011.
Operating income, which the company defines as net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses, was $469 million in the first quarter of 2012 and $405 million in the first quarter of 2011. First quarter operating income per share increased 26% to $1.70 in 2012 from $1.35 in 2011.
The first quarter combined loss and expense ratio was 90.2% in 2012 and 93.7% in 2011. The impact of catastrophes on the first quarter combined ratio was 0.8 percentage points in 2012 and 9.5 points in 2011. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, the first quarter combined ratio was 89.4% in 2012 and 84.2% in 2011. The expense ratio for the first quarter was 32.2% in 2012 and 31.7% in 2011.
Net written premiums for the first quarter increased 3% to $2.9 billion. Excluding the effect of foreign currency translation, premiums were up approximately 4%. Premiums were up 5% in the U.S. and down 1% outside the U.S. (up 2% in local currencies).
Property and casualty investment income after taxes for the first quarter was $308 million in 2012, compared to $310 million in 2011.
 
Net income for the first quarter of 2012 reflected net realized investment gains of $56 million pre-tax ($0.13 per share after-tax). Net income for the first quarter of 2011 reflected net realized investment gains of $160 million pre-tax ($0.35 per share after-tax), related mostly to the company's alternative investments.
"Chubb is off to a strong start in 2012," said John D. Finnegan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Chubb. "We produced excellent results in the first quarter, with operating income per share of $1.70 and a combined ratio of 90.2%. We are especially encouraged by the momentum of renewal rate increases we experienced during the quarter in both standard commercial and specialty lines, as well as the continued rate improvement in personal lines."
During the first quarter of 2012, Chubb repurchased approximately 4.4 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $301 million (an average of $68.44 per share). As of March 31, 2012, there was $963 million available for share repurchases under the current authorization.
Book value per share was $57.37 at March 31, 2012, compared to $52.33 at March 31, 2011 and $56.15 at December 31, 2011. The book value amounts reflect the effect of the company's adoption of new guidance related to accounting for costs associated with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts. This guidance was retrospectively applied to prior periods.
First Quarter Operations Review
(CPI) net written premiums increased 5% in the first quarter to $940 million. CPI's combined ratio for the quarter was 85.5%, compared to 93.8% in the first quarter of 2011. The first-quarter impact of catastrophes accounted for 1.2 percentage points in 2012, compared to 7.8 points in 2011. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, CPI's first quarter combined ratio was 84.3% in 2012 and 86.0% in 2011.
Chubb Personal Insurance
Net written premiums for Homeowners increased 4%, and the combined ratio was 80.1%. The impact of catastrophes in the first quarter accounted for 1.9 percentage points of the Homeowners combined ratio. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, the combined ratio for Homeowners was 78.2%. Personal Automobile premiums increased 1%, and the combined ratio was 91.3%. For Other Personal lines, premiums increased 11% and the combined ratio was 97.3%.
 
 
(CCI) net written premiums increased 6% in the first quarter to $1.4 billion. The combined ratio for the quarter was 93.3% in 2012 and 100.7% in 2011. The impact of catastrophes in the first quarter accounted for 0.9 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2012, compared to 16.2 points in 2011. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, CCI's first quarter combined ratio was 92.4% in 2012 and 84.5% in 2011.
Chubb Commercial Insurance
In the United States, average first quarter CCI renewal rates increased 8%, renewal premium retention was 83% and the ratio of new to lost business was 0.9 to 1.
(CSI) net written premiums declined 6% in the first quarter to $602 million. The combined ratio for CSI was 93.6%, compared to 82.4% in the first quarter of 2011.
Chubb Specialty Insurance
Professional Liability (PL) net written premiums were down 2%, and the combined ratio was 98.5%. Average first quarter renewal rates for PL in the U.S. increased 4%, renewal premium retention was 85% and the ratio of new to lost business was 0.8 to 1.
Surety net written premiums were down 27%, and the combined ratio was 56.3%.
Webcast Conference Call to be Held Today at 5 P.M.
Chubb's senior management will discuss the company's first quarter performance with investors and analysts today, April 19th, at 5 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time. The conference call will be webcast live on the Internet at and archived later in the day for replay.
http://www.chubb.com
 
 
About Chubb
Founded in 1882, the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies provides property and casualty insurance for personal and commercial customers worldwide through 8,500 independent agents and brokers. Chubb's global network includes branches and affiliates throughout North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia.
Chubb's Supplementary Investor Information Report has been posted on its Internet site at .
http://www.chubb.com
All financial results in this release and attachments are unaudited.
 
 
Definitions of Key Terms
: Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Operating Income
: Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, certain policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
: Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment results because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income tax.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
: Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
: The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
: Management uses net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate the trends in net written premiums, exclusive of the effect of fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which international business is transacted In net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation, the effect of fluctuations in the exchange rates is excluded as these rates may fluctuate significantly and could distort the analysis of trends. Net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation is determined by using the same exchange rate to translate each foreign currency denominated net written premium amount in both periods.
Net Written Premiums Growth (Decrease) Excluding the Impact of Currency Fluctuation
.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
In the conference call identified above and otherwise, we may make statements regarding our results of operations, financial condition and other matters that are "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA. Forward-looking statements frequently can be identified by words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "will," "may," "should," "could," "would," "likely," "estimate," "predict," "potential," "continue," or other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning trends and future developments and their potential effects on Chubb. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include, among others, those discussed or identified from time to time in Chubb's public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those associated with:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chubb assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information set forth in this document, which speak as of the date hereof.
 
 
 
 
 
Book value per common share at December 31, 2011 and March 31, 2011 has been restated to reflect the adoption of new guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board related to the accounting for costs associated with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts. The adoption of this guidance decreased shareholders' equity by $273 million as of December 31, 2011 and March 31, 2011. The effect of the adoption of the new guidance on net income for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and March 31, 2011 was not material.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncement
Shareholders' equity and book value per common share at December 31, 2011 and March 31, 2011 and return on equity and operating return on equity for the three months ended March 31, 2011 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board related to the accounting for costs associated with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts. The adoption of this guidance decreased shareholders' equity by $273 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2011 and each of the quarter-end balances within 2011. The effect of the adoption of the new guidance on net income for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and March 31, 2011 was not material.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the period from December 2005 through December 2010, under several share repurchase authorizations the Board of Directors authorized the repurchases of a total of 185 million shares of the Corporation's common stock. No shares remain under these repurchase authorizations.
In January 2012, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.2 billion of the Corporation's common stock. The authorization has no expiration date. As of March 31, 2012, approximately $963 million remained under the share repurchase authorization.
 
 
 
 
 
 
After-tax annualized yield is based on the average invested assets for the periods presented, with fixed maturities at amortized cost and equity securities at fair value.
 
Statutory Policyholders' Surplus and Net Premiums Written include all domestic and foreign property and casualty subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Property and casualty underwriting results for the first three months of 2011 reflect a reclassification of certain business that was previously considered outside the United States business and is now considered United States business. This reclassification had no impact on worldwide total amounts.
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, certain policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment results because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of the investment portfolio invested in tax exempt securities and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income taxes.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Operating Income
Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Return on Equity and Operating Return on Equity
Return on equity is the ratio of annualized net income divided by average shareholders' equity. Average shareholders' equity is the average of the beginning and all quarter-end balances within the period.
Operating return on equity, a non-GAAP measure, is the ratio of annualized operating income divided by average shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities and equity securities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities and equity securities is subject to fluctuation and could distort the analysis of trends. Average shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments is the average of the beginning and all quarter-end balances within the period. Management uses operating return on equity, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the Corporation.
 
 


