FILE:CB/CB-8K-20121025161127.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
The following information, including the text of the exhibits attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. On October 25, 2012, The Chubb Corporation (Chubb) issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter ended September 30, 2012. On October 25, 2012, Chubb also posted on its web site at the Supplementary Investor Information Report (SIIR) relating to its 2012 third quarter results. Copies of the press release and the SIIR, both of which are incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02 as if fully set forth herein, are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Form 8-K. In its press release, the SIIR and the conference call to discuss its 2012 third quarter results, scheduled to be webcast at 5:00 P.M. on October 25, 2012, Chubb presents, and will present, its results of operations in the manner that it believes is most meaningful to investors, which includes certain measures that are not prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
www.chubb.com
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
WARREN, New Jersey, October 25, 2012  The Chubb Corporation [NYSE: CB] today reported that net income in the third quarter of 2012 was $533 million compared to $298 million in the third quarter of 2011. Net income per share increased 90% to $1.98 from $1.04.
Operating income, which the company defines as net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses, was $533 million in the third quarter of 2012 compared to $252 million in the third quarter of 2011. Operating income per share increased 125% to a record $1.98 from $0.88.
The third quarter impact of catastrophes before tax was $17 million in 2012 and $420 million in 2011. The impact of catastrophes on third quarter net income and operating income per share was $0.04 in 2012 and $0.95 in 2011.
The third quarter combined loss and expense ratio was 86.3% in 2012 compared to 102.6% in 2011. The impact of catastrophes accounted for 0.6 percentage points of the combined ratio in the third quarter of 2012, compared to 14.4 percentage points in the third quarter of 2011. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, the third quarter combined ratio improved to 85.7% in 2012 from 88.2% in 2011.
The expense ratio for the third quarter was 32.5% in 2012 and 32.4% in 2011.
Net written premiums increased 1% in the third quarter of 2012 to $2.9 billion. Excluding the effect of foreign currency translation, premiums were up approximately 3%. Premiums increased 4% in the U.S. and declined 6% outside the U.S. (were flat in local currencies).
 
 
Property and casualty investment income after taxes for the third quarter declined 7% to $297 million in 2012 from $321 million in 2011.
Net realized investment losses for the third quarter of 2012 were less than $1 million, compared to net realized investment gains of $71 million before tax ($0.16 per share after-tax) in the third quarter of 2011.
During the third quarter, Chubb repurchased 4.1 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $301 million (an average of $73.80 per share). As of September 30, 2012, there remained approximately $357 million available for share repurchases under the current authorization.
Average diluted shares outstanding for the third quarter were 269.2 million in 2012 and 287.8 million in 2011.
"Chubb's third quarter operating earnings per share of $1.98 were the highest of any quarter in Chubb's history," said John D. Finnegan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "This record result reflected strong underlying underwriting performance as well as unusually low catastrophe losses. All three of our business units made significant contributions to these results, producing an outstanding 86.3% combined ratio. We're also encouraged by the rate increases we continued to obtain in all of our business units."
Nine-Month Results
For the first nine months of 2012, net income was $1.4 billion or $5.29 per share, compared with $1.2 billion or $4.16 per share for the first nine months of 2011. Operating income for the first nine months totaled $1.4 billion or a record $5.04 per share in 2012, compared with $1.0 billion or $3.50 per share in 2011.
The impact of catastrophes in the first nine months of 2012 was $264 million before tax. In the first nine months of 2011, the impact of catastrophes was $1.0 billion before tax. The impact of catastrophes on net income and operating income per share for the first nine months was $0.63 in 2012 and $2.25 in 2011.
The combined ratio for the first nine months was 90.1% in 2012 compared to 97.1% in 2011. The impact of catastrophes in the first nine months accounted for 3.0 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2012 and 11.7 points in 2011. Excluding the impact of catastrophes, the combined ratio in the first nine months was 87.1% in 2012 and 85.4% in 2011.
 
 
The expense ratio for the first nine months was 32.0% in 2012 and 31.8% in 2011.
Net written premiums increased 2% in the first nine months of 2012 to $9.0 billion. Excluding the effect of foreign currency translation, premiums were up approximately 3%. Premiums increased 4% in the U.S. and declined 3% outside the U.S. (increased 1% in local currencies).
Property and casualty investment income after taxes for the first nine months declined 4% to $908 million in 2012 from $949 million in 2011.
Net income for the first nine months of 2012 reflected net realized investment gains of $103 million before tax ($0.25 per share after-tax). Net income for the first nine months of 2011 reflected net realized investment gains of $300 million before tax ($0.66 per share after-tax).
Average diluted shares outstanding for the first nine months were 272.9 million in 2012 and 294.4 million in 2011.
During the first nine months of 2012, Chubb repurchased 12.7 million shares of common stock at a total cost of $907 million (an average of $71.23 per share).
Revised Guidance for 2012
"Based on our record operating income per share for the first nine months and our outlook for the fourth quarter," said Mr. Finnegan, "we are increasing our full year 2012 operating income per share guidance to a range of $6.70 to $6.80 from the $5.70 to $5.95 range we provided in July 2012. This revised guidance is based on operating income per share of $5.04 for the first nine months and an estimated range of $1.66 to $1.76 for the fourth quarter."
The revised guidance for 2012 operating income per share assumes an impact from catastrophes of 2 percentage points in the fourth quarter, resulting in an assumed impact of catastrophes for the year of 2.7 points, compared to an assumption of 4.3 points in the previous guidance. The revised guidance assumes 271 million average diluted shares outstanding for the year, unchanged from the previous guidance.
The impact of each percentage point of catastrophe losses on 2012 full year operating income per share is approximately $0.28.
 
 
Guidance and related assumptions are subject to the risks outlined in the company's forward-looking information safe-harbor statements (see below).
Third Quarter Operations Review
(CPI) net written premiums increased 3% in the third quarter of 2012 to $1.1 billion. CPI's combined ratio was 82.8%, compared to 115.6% in the third quarter of 2011. The impact of catastrophe losses in the third quarter accounted for 1.5 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2012 and 28.5 points in 2011. Excluding the impact of catastrophe losses, CPI's third quarter combined ratio was 81.3% in 2012 and 87.1% in 2011.
Chubb Personal Insurance
Net written premiums for Homeowners increased 3%, and the combined ratio was 76.2%. Personal Automobile net written premiums declined 2%, and the combined ratio was 92.0%. Other Personal lines premiums increased 8%, and the combined ratio was 95.5%.
(CCI) net written premiums were up 2% in the third quarter of 2012 to $1.2 billion. The combined ratio for the third quarter was 87.2% in 2012 and 101.1% in 2011. The impact of catastrophe losses in the third quarter accounted for 0.2 percentage points of the combined ratio in 2012 and 11.2 points in 2011. Excluding the impact of catastrophe losses, CCI's third quarter combined ratio was 87.0% in 2012 and 89.9% in 2011.
Chubb Commercial Insurance
In the U.S., average third quarter CCI renewal rates were up 8%, premium renewal retention was 84% and the ratio of new to lost business was 0.9 to 1.
(CSI) net written premiums declined 4% in the third quarter of 2012 to $640 million. The combined ratio was 91.9% compared to 88.3% in the third quarter of 2011.
Chubb Specialty Insurance
Professional Liability (PL) net written premiums were down 5%, and the business had a combined ratio of 97.0%. In the U.S., average third quarter PL renewal rates were up 8%, premium renewal retention was 82% and the ratio of new to lost business was 0.6 to 1.
Surety net written premiums were up 3%, and the combined ratio was 55.8%.
 
 
Webcast Conference Call to be held Today at 5 P.M.
Chubb's senior management will discuss the company's third quarter performance with investors and analysts today, October 25th, at 5 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time. The conference call will be webcast live on the Internet at and archived later in the day for replay.
http://www.chubb.com
About Chubb
Founded in 1882, the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies provides property and casualty insurance for personal and commercial customers worldwide through 8,500 independent agents and brokers. Chubb's global network includes branches and affiliates throughout North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia.
Chubb's Supplementary Investor Information Report has been posted on its Internet site at .
http://www.chubb.com
All financial results in this release and attachments are unaudited.
 
 
 
Definitions of Key Terms
: Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Operating Income
: Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, certain policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
: Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment results because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of tax exempt investment income to total investment income and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income tax.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
: Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
: The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
: Management uses net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate the trends in net written premiums, exclusive of the effect of fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which international business is transacted In net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation, the effect of fluctuations in the exchange rates is excluded as these rates may fluctuate significantly and could distort the analysis of trends. Net written premiums growth (decrease) excluding the impact of currency fluctuation is determined by using the same exchange rate to translate each foreign currency denominated net written premium amount in both periods.
Net Written Premiums Growth (Decrease) Excluding the Impact of Currency Fluctuation
.
 
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
In this press release, the conference call identified above and otherwise, we may make statements regarding our results of operations, financial condition and other matters that are "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA and include statements regarding management's 2012 operating income per share guidance and related assumptions. Forward-looking statements frequently can be identified by words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "will," "may," "should," "could," "would," "likely," "estimate," "predict," "potential," "continue," or other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning trends and future developments and their potential effects on Chubb. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include, among others, those discussed or identified from time to time in Chubb's public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those associated with:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chubb assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information set forth in this document, which speak as of the date hereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Book value per common share at December 31, 2011 and September 30, 2011 has been adjusted to reflect the adoption of new guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board related to the accounting for costs associated with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts. The adoption of this guidance decreased shareholders' equity by $273 million as of December 31, 2011 and September 30, 2011. The effect of the adoption of the new guidance on net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 and September 30, 2011 was not material.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncement
Shareholders' equity and book value per common share at December 31, 2011 and return on equity and operating return on equity for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2011 have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of new guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board related to the accounting for costs associated with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts. The adoption of this guidance decreased shareholders' equity by $273 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2011 and each of the quarter-end balances within 2011. The effect of the adoption of the new guidance on net income for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2012 and September 30, 2011 was not material.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the period from December 2005 through December 2010, under several share repurchase authorizations the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of a total of 185 million shares of the Corporation's common stock. No shares remain under these repurchase authorizations.
In January 2012, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.2 billion of the Corporation's common stock. The authorization has no expiration date. As of September 30, 2012, approximately $357 million remained under the share repurchase authorization.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After-tax annualized yield is based on the average invested assets for the periods presented, with fixed maturities at amortized cost and equity securities at fair value.
 
Statutory Policyholders' Surplus and Net Premiums Written include all domestic and foreign property and casualty subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Property and casualty underwriting results for 2011 reflect a reclassification of certain business that was previously considered outside the United States business and is now considered United States business. This reclassification had no impact on worldwide total amounts.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Property and casualty underwriting results for 2011 reflect a reclassification of certain business that was previously considered outside the United States business and is now considered United States business. This reclassification had no impact on worldwide total amounts.
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
Underwriting Income (Loss)
Management evaluates underwriting results separately from investment results. The underwriting operations consist of four separate business units: personal insurance, commercial insurance, specialty insurance and reinsurance assumed. Performance of the business units is measured based on statutory underwriting results. Statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses are recognized immediately, not at the time premiums are earned. Statutory underwriting income (loss) is arrived at by reducing premiums earned by losses and loss expenses incurred and statutory underwriting expenses incurred.
Management uses underwriting results determined in accordance with GAAP, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the underwriting operations. To convert statutory underwriting results to a GAAP basis, certain policy acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Underwriting income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP is defined as premiums earned less losses and loss expenses incurred and GAAP underwriting expenses incurred.
Property and Casualty Investment Income After Income Tax
Management uses property and casualty investment income after income tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its investment results because it reflects the impact of any change in the proportion of tax exempt investment income to total investment income and is therefore more meaningful for analysis purposes than investment income before income taxes.
Book Value per Common Share with Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturities at Amortized Cost
Book value per common share represents the portion of consolidated shareholders' equity attributable to one share of common stock outstanding as of the balance sheet date. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and therefore could distort the analysis of trends. Management believes that book value per common share with available-for-sale fixed maturities at amortized cost, a non-GAAP financial measure, is an important measure of the underlying equity attributable to one share of common stock.
Combined Loss and Expense Ratio or Combined Ratio
The combined loss and expense ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the key measure of underwriting profitability. Management uses the combined loss and expense ratio calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to property and casualty insurance companies to evaluate the performance of the underwriting operations. It is the sum of the ratio of losses and loss expenses to premiums earned (loss ratio) plus the ratio of statutory underwriting expenses to premiums written (expense ratio) after reducing both premium amounts by dividends to policyholders.
 
THE CHUBB CORPORATION
Definitions of Key Terms
 
Operating Income
Operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, is net income excluding after-tax realized investment gains and losses. Management uses operating income, among other measures, to evaluate its performance because the realization of investment gains and losses in any given period is largely discretionary as to timing and can fluctuate significantly, which could distort the analysis of trends.
Return on Equity and Operating Return on Equity
Return on equity is the ratio of annualized net income divided by average shareholders' equity. Average shareholders' equity is the average of the beginning and all quarter-end balances within the period.
Operating return on equity, a non-GAAP measure, is the ratio of annualized operating income divided by average shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments. Consolidated shareholders' equity includes, as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the after-tax appreciation or depreciation, including unrealized other-than-temporary impairment losses, of the Corporation's available-for-sale fixed maturities and equity securities, which are carried at fair value. The appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturities and equity securities is subject to fluctuation and could distort the analysis of trends. Average shareholders' equity excluding the after-tax unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments is the average of the beginning and all quarter-end balances within the period. Management uses operating return on equity, among other measures, to assess the overall performance of the Corporation.
 
 


