FILE:CB/CB-8K-20121211161825.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 11, 2012, The Chubb Corporation (Chubb) issued a press release announcing its estimate of losses from Storm Sandy, information relating to Chubb's share repurchase program and the date on which Chubb expects to announce fourth quarter 2012 financial results. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
99.1     Press release dated December 11, 2012 (furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K)
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
News from
The Chubb Corporation
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Warren, N.J., December 11, 2012  The Chubb Corporation [NYSE: CB] announced today that it estimates its losses from Storm Sandy to be approximately $880 million before tax, or $570 million after tax ($2.14 per share after tax). These amounts include estimated losses and loss expenses net of reinsurance recoverable and also include estimated reinsurance reinstatement premiums.
As previously disclosed, in light of Storm Sandy and the uncertainties surrounding it, Chubb temporarily suspended the repurchase of its common stock under its share repurchase program. Following this announcement, the company intends to resume repurchasing its shares, although it no longer expects to complete repurchases under its current $1.2 billion authorization by the end of January 2013 as previously contemplated. After the Board of Directors' annual review of Chubb's share repurchase program in January 2013, Chubb expects to announce an additional share repurchase authorization at the same time it announces its fourth quarter 2012 financial results.
Chubb expects to announce its fourth quarter 2012 financial results on Thursday, January 31, 2013 after the close of the market. The press release and financial supplement will be available shortly thereafter on Chubb's website at www.chubb.com.
A conference call will take place on the same day, Thursday, January 31, 2013 at 5:00 p.m. ET hosted by Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer John D. Finnegan and other members of Chubb's senior management. The call will be broadcast live over the Internet. To listen to the conference call, log on to Chubb's website at www.chubb.com and click on the microphone icon. A replay of the call will be available on Chubb's website at approximately two hours following the webcast through Thursday, February 28, 2013.
www.chubb.com
Those who wish to listen to the live conference call may pre-register on Chubb's website at www.chubb.com by clicking on this press release in the press release category of our home page.
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
Some of the statements in this release, including those about estimated losses from Storm Sandy and Chubb's repurchase of shares of its common stock, are "forward-looking information" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include, among others, those discussed or identified from time to time in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Chubb assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information set forth in this release, which speaks as of its date.
 


