FILE:SLB/SLB-8K-20031016112817.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 22, 2003, Schlumberger Limited (the "Company") announced the signing of a binding agreement with Atos Origin ("Atos") for the sale of the majority of SchlumbergerSema businesses (collectively, the "SchlumbergerSema Business"). The consideration for the transaction will consist of 400 million in cash and 19.3 million shares of common stock of Atos, which will represent approximately 29% of the common shares outstanding of Atos after the transaction is completed. The Company intends to reduce its ownership of Atos to 19% through the sale of Atos stock shortly after the closing. The closing of the transaction, which is expected to occur in January 2004, is subject to Atos shareholder approval, customary regulatory approvals, the employee information and consultation process and other conditions.
 
The Company is filing this Current Report on Form 8-K to furnish pro forma financial information pursuant to Article 11 of Regulation S-X with respect to (i) the sale of the SchlumbergerSema Business and (ii) the probable sale of Atos shares to reduce the Company's ownership in Atos to 19%.
 
 
(b) Pro forma financial information
 
The following unaudited pro forma financial statements and notes thereto are being filed herewith:
 
 
 
 
On September 22, 2003, Schlumberger Limited (the "Company") announced the signing of a binding agreement with Atos Origin ("Atos") for the sale of the majority of SchlumbergerSema businesses (collectively, the "SchlumbergerSema Business"). The consideration for the transaction will consist of $448 million in cash and 19.3 million shares of common stock of Atos ($1.02 billion), which will represent approximately 29% of the common shares outstanding of Atos after the transaction is completed.
 
The Company intends to reduce its ownership of Atos to 19% through the sale of Atos stock shortly after the closing. The closing of the transaction, which is expected to occur in January 2004, is subject to Atos shareholder approval, customary regulatory approvals, the employee information and consultation process and other conditions.
 
The Pro Forma Statements of Operations below have been prepared as if the transactions were completed on January 1, 2002. The Pro Forma Balance Sheet has been prepared as if the transaction closed on June 30, 2003. The final gain or loss on the transaction is dependent upon the stock price and currency exchange rates at closing as well as other factors. Accordingly, the final gain/loss is not known at this time. The following pro forma financial information has been prepared based upon (i) the value of the stock at the announcement date (ii) a discount that the Company believes would be necessary to sell a significant block of Atos shares shortly after closing (iii) the currency exchange rates at the announcement date and (iv) other adjustments deemed to give effect to the transaction as if the transaction was completed as discussed above. If the sale of stock does not occur to bring the investment down to 19%, then the investment will be accounted for under the equity method.
 
The pro forma financial information represents, in the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to present the Company's pro forma results of operations and financial position in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation S-X and are based upon available information and certain assumptions considered reasonable under the circumstances. Cash proceeds and proceeds from the sale of this stock will be used to pay down the Company's existing debt instruments.
 
The Company intends to account for its investment in Atos at the 19% level as a cost method investment and accordingly the results of Atos will not be recorded by Schlumberger on a quarterly basis.
 
The pro forma condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's unaudited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for
the periods ended June 30, 2003 and March 31, 2003 and the Company's audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 as amended for discontinued operations through the filing of a Form 8-K on September 12, 2003.
 
The pro forma information may not necessarily be indicative of what the Company's financial position or results of operations would have been had the transaction been in effect as of and for the periods presented, nor is such information necessarily indicative of the Company's results of operations or financial position for any future period or date.
The following table shows the unaudited condensed pro forma balance sheet at June 30, 2003 as if the transaction had taken place on June 30, 2003:
 
 
 
The following table shows the unaudited condensed pro forma statement of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2003 as if the transaction had taken place on January 1, 2002:
 
 
 
 
The following table shows the unaudited condensed pro forma statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2002 as if the transaction had taken place on January 1, 2002:
 
 
 
 
The Pro Forma Schlumberger results include charges related to WesternGeco for the multiclient library impairment and severance charges of $200 million after tax and minority interest, $800 million of charges related primarily to Telecom Products and Cards and a $94 million tax loss carryforward valuation allowance. These were partially offset by an $87 million gain on the sale of two jack-up drilling rigs.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: October 15, 2003


