FILE:SLB/SLB-8K-20040412182923.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Items 5 and 12.
 
On April 12, 2004, Schlumberger Limited announced that certain charges and credits will be taken in the first quarter of 2004. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 7.
 
(c)    Exhibits
 
99.1    Press Release dated April 12, 2004
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Schlumberger Announces Charges and Credits to be Recorded in the First Quarter 2004
 
NEW YORK, April 12, 2004Schlumberger Limited (NYSE:SLB) announced today that certain charges and credits will be taken in the first quarter.
 
The following transactions will be recorded as discontinued operations, the sum of which will be a gain:
 
 
 
 
The following charges will be recorded in continuing operations:
 
 
 
 
At the same time, Schlumberger reiterated its view, expressed in the report for the fourth quarter of 2003, that the recent acceleration of oil demand growth, particularly in China and the US, will sustain robust E&P activity worldwide.
 
###
 
This press release contains forward looking statements, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our expectations regarding the effect of charges and credits, the disposition of our Telecom Messaging Software business and the sustainability of E&P activity worldwide. These statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the extent and timing of a rebound in the global economy; changes in exploration and production spending; general economic and business conditions in key regions of the world; our ability to complete, and the benefits to be derived from, divestitures; and the other factors detailed in our most recent Forms 10-K and 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those forecasted or expected. Schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
About Schlumberger
 
Schlumberger is the world's leading oilfield services company supplying technology, project management and information solutions that optimize performance for customers working in the oil and gas industry. The company employs more than 50,000 people of over 140 nationalities working in 100 countries, and comprises two primary business segments. Schlumberger Oilfield Services supplies a wide range of products and services from formation evaluation through directional drilling, well cementing and stimulation, well completions and productivity to consulting, software, information management and IT infrastructure services that support core industry operational processes. WesternGeco, jointly owned with BakerHughes, is the world's largest seismic company and provides advanced acquisition and data processing services. In 2003, Schlumberger operating revenue was $11.4 billion. For more information, visit .
www.slb.com
###
 
For further information, contact:
 
Doug Pferdehirt
Vice President of Communications and Investor Relations
 
Paulo Loureiro
Investor Relations Manager
Tel: +1 212 350 9432
ir-nam@slb.com


