FILE:SLB/SLB-8K-20040723063614.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
The exhibits listed below are furnished pursuant to Item 12 of this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
Item 12.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
The Second Quarter 2004 Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and the Question and Answer document attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2, which are incorporated in this Item 12 by reference, were posted on the Schlumberger internet web site (www.slb.com/ir) on July 23, 2004.
 
In addition to financial results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) that are included in the attached Second Quarter 2004 Press Release and Question and Answer document, these documents also include the following non-GAAP financial measures (as defined under the SEC's Regulation G):
 
 
 
The following is a reconciliation of :
 
 
 
 
- Management believes that the exclusion of these items enables it to evaluate more effectively the Company's operations period over period and to identify operating trends that could otherwise be masked by the excluded items.
Reasons for excluding charges and credits
 
The foregoing non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, total debt, net income, cash flows or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP as more fully discussed in the Company's financial statements and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: July 23, 2004

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
- Schlumberger Limited (NYSE:SLB) today reported second quarter 2004 operating revenue of $2.86 billion versus $2.54 billion in the second quarter of 2003 and $2.69 billion in the first quarter of 2004. Income from continuing operations before charges was $288 million, or $0.48 per share-diluted versus $0.39 in the second quarter of last year and $0.43 in the first quarter of 2004. Including after-tax charges of $34 million, income from continuing operations was $255 million, or $0.43 per share compared to $146 million, or $0.25 per share, last year.
NEW YORK, July 23, 2004
 
Discontinued operations recorded a gain of $101 million ($0.16 per share) in the quarter, resulting in net income of $356 million, or $0.59 per share-diluted. This compares to a net income of $112 million, or $0.19 per share-diluted, in the second quarter of 2003.
 
Oilfield Services revenue of $2.54 billion increased 8% compared to the first quarter, and 15% compared to the same quarter of last year. Pretax segment operating income of $454 million increased 7% sequentially and 15% year-on-year.
 
WesternGeco revenue of $292 million decreased 7% sequentially and 5% year-on-year. Pretax segment operating income of $15 million declined $19 million sequentially but improved $31 million compared to the same quarter of last year.
 
On July 22, the Board of Directors of Schlumberger approved a share buyback program of up to 15 million shares to be acquired in the open market before December 2006, subject to market conditions.
 
Schlumberger Chairman and CEO Andrew Gould commented, "Second quarter activity remained strong across a wide range of GeoMarkets and technologies. Continued growth in Russia and the Caspian, and strong performance across Asia and the Middle East, were both very encouraging. North America pricing moved up satisfactorily in the quarter. WesternGeco continued to show significant improvement in backlog for both Q technology and conventional activity. The growing realization that at current levels of demand very little spare oil production capacity exists will ensure continued strong growth over the coming quarters".
Note:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited)
 
The first quarter of 2004 includes a $14 million ($0.02 per share) loss on the sale of Atos Origin shares.
The second quarter of 2004 includes a $7 million ($0.01 per share) loss on the sale of Atos Origin shares.
The second quarter of 2004 includes an idle leased facility reserve of $11 million ($0.02 per share), a reorganization reserve of $4 million ($0.01 per share) and a litigation reserve release of $5 million ($0.01 per share).
The first quarter of 2004 includes $77 million related to the repurchase of UK Pound and Euro denominated Bonds ($0.13 per share).
The second quarter of 2004 includes $23 million ($0.04 per share) related to the repurchase of US Dollar denominated Bonds (pretax $37 million and tax benefit of $14 million).
Condensed Balance Sheet (Unaudited)
 
Net Debt (Unaudited)
 
Net debt represents gross debt less cash, short-term investments and fixed income investments, held to maturity. Details of the net debt follow:
 
 
 
The first quarter of 2004 excludes a pretax charge of $73 million for the US Interest Rate Swap write off, a pretax loss of $14 on the sale of Atos Origin shares, a pretax charge of $77 million of debt extinguishment costs and a pretax charge of $20 million related to the restructuring program in the United States.
The second quarter 2003 excludes $81 million of debt extinguishment costs.
 
Second quarter revenue of $2.54 billion was 8% higher sequentially and increased 15% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $454 million increased 7% sequentially and rose 15% year-on-year.
 
Sequential growth was strongest in the Malaysia, Russia, Caspian, Arabian and China GeoMarkets. Demand for all technology segments increased, but particularly for Drilling & Measurements technologies including the PowerDrive* and newly introduced PowerV* rotary steerable systems. The Well Services and Well Completions & Productivity technology segments also showed strong growth for production-based technologies while Integrated Project Management activity continued to grow.
 
The highest year-on-year growth was experienced in the India, Caspian, Russia, Mexico and Malaysia GeoMarkets with growth reflected across all technology segments. Deepwater activity was particularly strong in India and Malaysia. Growth was strongest in Integrated Project Management from projects in the Gulf Coast, Mexico and Indonesia GeoMarkets. Among the other technology segments, Well Services, Drilling & Measurements and Well Completions & Productivity experienced the highest year-on-year growth.
 
North America
 
Revenue of $746 million increased 3% sequentially and 14% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $120 million decreased 2% sequentially but increased 27% year-on-year.
 
US Land provided robust revenue growth both sequentially and year-on-year primarily due to continued favorable oil and gas industry dynamics combined with increasing demand for ABC* Analysis Behind Casing technologies, FAT* Fiber Assisted Transport stimulation services, and Drilling & Measurements PowerDrive rotary steerable systems. These technology advances are demonstrating value and are helping drive activity while enabling price increases and efficiency gains. Recent contract awards in the U.S. should increase pricing further in the coming quarters.
 
Despite weak E&P activity offshore, increasing demand for Integrated Project Management turnkey well construction services led to both sequential and year-on-year revenue growth in the Gulf of Mexico.
 
The small sequential decrease in operating income was due primarily to reduced activity in Canada following the spring break-up. Activity is expected to recover in the third quarter. This was partially offset by strong demand in the US Land GeoMarket, combined with healthy technology performance in Well Services and Drilling & Measurements that resulted in favorable operating leverage.
 
The quarter saw strong demand for the newly launched PowerV rotary steerable system that automatically guides vertical wells and delivers reductions in planning time and rig cost. For Anadarko, the PowerV system returned a well to vertical in 400 feet and then held inclination to less than 1 degree for 1,441 ft to TD while improving rate of penetration; this allowed Anadarko to reduce overall drilling time by 2 days.
Latin America
 
Revenue of $426 million increased 8% sequentially and was 21% higher year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $63 million was 2% higher sequentially and increased 8% year-on-year.
 
Increasing demand for Integrated Project Management in Argentina, sustained robust performance in Mexico, and growing demand for rotary steerable systems in Brazil were partially offset by lower activity in the Venezuela and Peru/Colombia/Ecuador GeoMarkets.
 
In Venezuela, the rig count showed a sequential increase after two quarters of decline, following the award of several contracts by PDVSA and the international oil companies. Contractual negotiations for the resumption of certain integrated project activities in West Venezuela are ongoing.
 
Schlumberger Information Solutions showed solid performance both sequentially and year-on-year with growth in software, infrastructure and real-time production solutions.
 
Europe/CIS/West Africa
 
Revenue of $704 million increased 9% sequentially and 7% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $117 million increased 10% sequentially and declined 3% year-on-year.
 
The Russian and Caspian GeoMarkets contributed the majority of the growth with respective revenue increases of 40% and 32% sequentially and 66% and 76% year-on-year. Demand was strong across all technology segments but particularly in Well Services and Well Completions & Productivity technologies. Work began under significant new contracts for Drilling & Measurements in Kazakhstan while Integrated Project Management began new operations for OAO RITEK on ten horizontal wells in the Sredne-Khulymskoye field in Russia to enhance oil production. Major new contracts, were awarded in the Caspian by BP for a variety of well construction and well evaluation services.
 
West Africa continued to deliver robust performance achieving record activity levels mainly due to the development of deepwater projects combined with price increases through the introduction of new services such as the OBMI* Oil-Base MicroImager tool, DSI* Dipole Shear Sonic Imager tool, Vx* multiphase well testing technology and PowerDrive systems. Sequentially revenue fell slightly in the UK sector of the North Sea due to slow activity but was sharply lower in Nigeria due to operating difficulties in the Delta.
 
Increased demand for Well Services production technologies contributed to the growth across the area. These technologies included the successful launch of the PowerCLEAN* system, an integrated solution for optimizing production through wellbore fill removal using coiled tubing, with multiple new contracts in Algeria and Russia.
The strong sequential operating income improvement was mainly due to the revenue growth in Russia and the Caspian coupled with cost control initiatives in the North Sea. Year-on-year decline was due to lower activity in Nigeria and the North Sea that can only be expected to show modest improvement in the second half of the year. Currency movements against the US dollar continued to have an unfavorable impact.
 
Middle East & Asia
 
Revenue of $636 million rose 14% sequentially and 22% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $161 million was up 16% sequentially and 20% year-on-year.
 
Strong activity growth in the Arabian GeoMarket was driven by rig count increases due to higher production targets leading to high Drilling & Measurements activity and by additional Well Completions & Productivity equipment sales of multiphase meters. Also contributing to the record revenue level was the start of a new fracturing campaign in Oman, strong Wireline activity in Qatar, and expanded Drilling & Measurements and Wireline work for Murphy Oil in Malaysia.
 
The strength of this performance was also due to a substantial increase in deepwater activity combined with strong technology deployment resulting in healthy growth in the India, Indonesia and Malaysia GeoMarkets.
 
Demand was robust across all technology segments and included increased customer acceptance for a range of Well Services technologies and Wireline logging services that included the successful introduction of the FSI* FlowScan Imager tool that enables customers to optimize production through identifying oil entry points in horizontal wells.
 
Schlumberger Information Solutions continued to grow the information management business with a new information management contract in Qatar together with continuing growth in India, Kuwait and Malaysia.
 
Highlights
 
 
device improves production in fields with up to 75% free gas, and the HOTLINE II system operates at up to 500 degrees Fahrenheit for applications in steam-assisted heavy oil production.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Second quarter revenue of $292 million was 7% lower sequentially and 5% lower compared to the same period of last year. Pretax operating income of $15 million decreased $19 million sequentially and improved by $31 million year-on-year.
 
Sequentially, Multiclient sales decreased 38% from lower sales in North America following the high level of interest generated by the Central Gulf of Mexico lease sale in the previous quarter, and the higher sales that had resulted from a long-term volume agreement signed in December 2003. Land declined 7% mainly due to delayed contract starts in Mexico, and the Middle East, partially offset by the start-up of one additional crew in Sudan. These declines were partially mitigated by rapid growth in Marine revenue in Europe reflecting the start of the North Sea season. During the last two weeks of the quarter, 100% utilization of the Q*-vessels was achieved. During the quarter, WesternGeco was awarded several Q contracts including a multi-year Q-Marine project with a national oil company, a Q-Marine contract by Shell Norway and a 6-month Q-Land contract by Saudi Aramco.
Year-on-year revenue decline was mainly due to lower land activity following the shutdown of several crews active in the previous year in Alaska, Mexico and West Africa although this decline was partially offset by improvements in Asia through higher activity in Malaysia. Multiclient sales declined 4% from lower sales in North America, Asia and Europe, partially mitigated by a higher level of activity in South America. Marine revenue increased reflecting the start of the North Sea season in Europe, higher proprietary activity in the Gulf of Mexico and the start of a Q-survey in Mexico, partially offset by lower activity in the Caspian.
 
Year-on-year improvement in pretax operating income was mainly due to Multiclient driven by lower amortization costs, improvements in Europe following the start of the North Sea season, higher activity in the Brunei/Malaysia/Philippines GeoMarket and by significant savings related to restructuring measures taken in the previous year. Sequentially, the deterioration was mainly due to lower Multiclient sales, partially offset by improvements in Marine activity due to higher vessel utilization.
 
The WesternGeco backlog at the end of the second quarter reached $594 million, a 24% increase over the previous quarter, of which $560 million are committed for the next 12 months.
About Schlumberger
 
Schlumberger is the world's leading oilfield services company supplying technology, project management and information solutions that optimize performance for customers working in the oil and gas industry. The company employs more than 45,000 people of over 140 nationalities working in 100 countries, and comprises two business segments. Schlumberger supplies a wide range of products and services from formation evaluation through directional drilling, well cementing and stimulation, well completions and productivity to consulting, software, information management and IT infrastructure services that support core industry operational processes. WesternGeco, jointly owned with Baker Hughes, is the world's largest seismic company and provides advanced acquisition and data processing services. In 2003, Schlumberger operating revenue was $10.12 billion. For more information, visit www.slb.com
 
 
 
Trademark of Institut Franais du Ptrole (IFP), Total, and Statoil; technology licensed to Schlumberger
 
Notes:
 
 
 
For more information, please contact:
Doug Pferdehirt, Vice President of Communications and Investor Relations
or
Paulo Loureiro, Investor Relations Manager
 
+1-212-350-9432
ir-nam@slb.com

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
Oilfield Services after-tax return on sales in the second quarter was 13.8%. The strong margin improvements in US Land, Russia, Caspian and the Middle East and Asia were offset by margin deteriorations in Nigeria and Venezuela.
 
 
The 2004 Capex guidance is unchanged at $950 million.
 
 
Schlumberger has specific plans that ensure the safety of its employees and works with security advisors in many countries around the world, including Saudi Arabia. The company is working with advisors, customers and local authorities in Saudi Arabia to continue to supply services in a safe and efficient manner.
 
 
WesternGeco did not acquire any new multiclient surveys in the second quarter of 2004 and does not expect to acquire any new surveys in 2004 unless they are significantly pre-funded. However, Schlumberger capitalized $6 million, net of pre-funding, related to processing of surveys previously acquired.
 
Multiclient sales in the quarter were $83 million. The corresponding cost of sales was $54 million. About 56% of the surveys sold had no NBV with about 5% of the revenue coming from surveys considered impaired in September 2003.
 
 
 
The only remaining businesses in the "Other" segment are Global Tel*Link, Payphones and Essentis. They had 6-month revenue in 2004 of $45 million resulting in an operating loss of $6.2 million.
 
These businesses are under active divestiture plans.
 
 
 
Oilfield Services and WesternGeco after-tax before minority interest return on sales for the second quarter was 12.7%.
 
 
Charges and credits from continuing operations of $34 million included:
 
 
 
The size of the share buyback program has been designed to allow robust, but disciplined, reinvestment to support a double-digit growth rate and it is not expected to lead to financial leverage above current levels. Schlumberger will execute this program subject to market conditions, such as stock price or interest rates.
Additionally, Schlumberger will continue to assess the dividend level based on earnings prospects.
 
 
The company has two stock compensation plans  stock option awards and an employee stock purchase plan. The company started to record stock option expense in the income statement beginning in the second half of 2003, on a prospective basis for grants after January 1, 2003. The effect on the entire year 2003 net income and earnings per share was $13 million ($0.02 per share). In 2004, we expect to record a cost of $28 million ($0.05 per share).
 
 
The gross debt as of June 30, 2004 was $4.4 billion consisting of $2.8 billion of fixed rate and $1.6 billion of floating rate. Details were as follows:
 
 
 
After the quarterly dividend payment of $110 million, net debt of $1.77 billion at June 30, 2004, decreased $1.19 billion in the quarter mainly due to the proceeds from the divestitures.
 
 
 
The debt restructuring, which consisted of bonds buyback and swap cancellation, is now completed.
 
Due to the cyclical nature of its activities, the company believes that strong credit metrics are an integral component of its business model. The company considers that this is achieved by maintaining a net debt level of less than $2 billion.
 
 
On May 28, Moody's affirmed its A1/P-1 rating and raised its outlook to stable from negative.
 
On July 8, Standard & Poor's affirmed its A+/A-1 rating and raised its outlook to stable from negative.
 
The second quarter ETR from continuing operations before charges was 23.1%. We expect the effective tax rate from continuing operations before charges for the year to be in the mid-twenties range or slightly lower. The ETR is particularly sensitive to the geographic business mix in WesternGeco.
 
 
Interest income of $11 million decreased $2.8 million sequentially and $2.2 million compared to the same quarter last year. Average return of 1.7% decreased by 0.1% sequentially, and 0.8% compared to the same quarter of last year. Average investment balance of $2.6 billion was down $497 million sequentially and increased $527 million compared to the same quarter last year.
 
Interest expense, excluding the US interest rate swap charges/credits, of $51 million decreased $18.4 million sequentially and $41.5 million from the same quarter last year. Average borrowing rates of 3.7% decreased from 4.0% last quarter and 4.8% last year. Average debt balance of $5.3 billion decreased $1.6 billion sequentially and $2.2 billion compared to the same quarter last year.
 
Schlumberger expects the net interest expense to be approximately $26 million in each of the next two quarters.
 
 
The difference of $6.3 million in the quarter came from Oilfield Services headquarters projects and costs together with Oilfield Services consolidation eliminations.
 
 
The $50 million pretax difference during the quarter included items such as corporate headquarters expenses, interest on post-retirement benefits, amortization of identifiable intangibles, currency exchange losses and gains and employee stock purchase and stock option costs.
 
 
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by first adding back to net income the interest expense on the convertible bonds and then dividing this adjusted net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution, the calculation of which includes the
shares from the conversion of convertible bonds and assumes that all stock options which are in the money are exercised at the beginning of the period and the proceeds used, by Schlumberger, to purchase shares at the average market price for the period.
 
The shares from the potential conversion of the convertible bonds amount to 19 million and the interest expense on the convertible bonds was $7.2 million in the second quarter.
 
 
Annualized ROCE reached 15.1% in the second quarter of 2004.
 
 
 
This question and answer document, the second quarter 2004 earnings release and other statements we make contain forward looking statements, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our expectations regarding business outlook; financial growth for Schlumberger as a whole and for each of Oilfield Services, Schlumberger Information Solutions and WesternGeco; oil and natural gas demand and production growth; operating and capital expenditures by the oil and gas industry; the business strategies of Schlumberger's customers; and future results of operations. These statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the global economy; changes in exploration and production spending by Schlumberger's customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; general economic and business conditions in key regions of the world; political and economic uncertainty and socio-political unrest, and other factors detailed in our most recent Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those forecasted or expected. Schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


