FILE:SLB/SLB-8K-20040315171612.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Acquisition or disposition of assets	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Acquisition or disposition of assets
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company is filing this amendment to its Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 30, 2004 to furnish updated pro forma financial information prepared in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation S-X with respect to the sale of the SchlumbergerSema business. Pro forma financial information was previously reported in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 16, 2003.
 
Items 2 and 5. Acquisition of Disposition of Assets; Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On January 29, 2004, Schlumberger completed the sale of its SchlumbergerSema businesses to Atos Origin SA. The consideration for the transaction consisted of 443 million in cash, which included a working capital adjustment, and 19.3 million shares of Atos capital stock valued at 52.65, and was determined by arm's length negotiation. Prior to the transaction there was no material relationship between Atos Origin and Schlumberger (or any of Schlumberger's affiliates, directors or officers or any of their associates). On February 2, 2004, the Schlumberger group sold 9.6 million Atos Origin shares at a price of 52.95 per share. As a result, the Schlumberger group holds approximately 14.5% of the share capital of Atos Origin. Schlumberger accounts for its investment in Atos Origin using the cost method. Schlumberger expects to sell these remaining shares in a large block.
 
SchlumbergerSema provided IT consulting, systems integration and managed services together with network and infrastructure solutions to the global energy industry, as well as in specific regional markets spanning the telecommunications, finance, transport and public sectors. Schlumberger is retaining the strategic activities of IT services for the oil and gas industry and the operations that provide connectivity with the upstream oil and gas business. Additionally, Schlumberger also retained specific SchlumbergerSema businesses, which are in the process of divestiture, including Business Continuity, Infodata, and Telecom Software Products.
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(b) Pro forma financial information
 
The following unaudited pro forma financial statements and notes thereto are being filed herewith:
 
 
 
On January 29, 2004, Schlumberger completed the sale of its SchlumbergerSema businesses to Atos Origin SA. The consideration for the transaction consisted of 443 million in cash, which included a working capital adjustment, and 19.3 million shares of Atos capital stock valued at 52.65, and was determined by arm's length negotiation. Prior to the transaction there was no material relationship between Atos Origin and Schlumberger (or any of Schlumberger's affiliates, directors or officers or any of their associates). Shortly after completion of the sale, the Schlumberger group sold 9.6 million Atos Origin shares at a price of 52.95 per share. As a result, the Schlumberger group holds approximately 14.5% of the share capital of Atos Origin. Schlumberger accounts for its investment in Atos Origin using the cost method. Schlumberger expects to sell these remaining shares in a large block.
 
The Unaudited Condensed Pro Forma Statements of Operations below have been prepared as if the transactions were completed on January 1, 2003. The Unaudited Condensed Pro Forma Balance Sheet has been prepared as if the transactions were completed on December 31, 2003. The pro forma financial information represents, in the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to present Schlumberger's pro forma results of operations and financial position in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation S-X and is based upon available information and certain assumptions considered reasonable under the circumstances. Cash proceeds, net of expenses, from the disposition of SchlumbergerSema and from the sale of the Atos Origin stock aggregate approximately $1.0 billion of which $0.6 billion is invested in short-term investments and $0.4 billion is used to pay down current portion of long-term debt.
 
The pro forma financial statements give effect to the transaction with Atos Origin as well as the sale of 9.6 million shares of Atos Origin on February 2, 2004. The following pro forma information has been prepared based on (i) the value of the Atos Origin stock at January 29, 2004 and February 2, 2004 (ii) the discount that Schlumberger believes would be necessary to sell the remaining Atos Origin shares in a large block in 2004 (iii) the currency exchange rates at January 29, 2004 and February 2, 2004 and (iv) other adjustments deemed to give effect to the transaction as if the transaction was completed as discussed above.
 
The pro forma condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with Schlumberger's audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Schlumberger's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003.
 
The pro forma information may not necessarily be indicative of what Schlumberger's financial position or results of operations would have been had the transaction been in effect as of and for the periods presented, nor is such information necessarily indicative of Schlumberger's results of operations or financial position for any future period or date.
 
The following table shows the unaudited condensed pro forma balance sheet at December 31, 2003 as if the transactions had taken place on December 31, 2003:
 
 
Adjustments:
 
 
 
The following table shows the unaudited condensed pro forma statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2003 as if the transactions had taken place on January 1, 2003:
 
 
Adjustments:
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


