FILE:SLB/SLB-8K-20040423071724.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
The exhibits listed below are furnished pursuant to Item 12 of this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
Item 12.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
The First Quarter 2004 Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and the Question and Answer document attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2, which are incorporated in this Item 12 by reference, were posted on the Schlumberger internet web site (www.slb.com/ir) on April 23, 2004.
 
In addition to financial results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) that are included in the attached First Quarter 2004 Press Release and Question and Answer document, these documents also include the following non-GAAP financial measures (as defined under the SEC's Regulation G):
 
 
 
The following is a reconciliation of :
 
 
 
 
- Management believes that the exclusion of these items enables it to evaluate more effectively the Company's operations period over period and to identify operating trends that could otherwise be masked by the excluded items.
Reasons for excluding charges
 
 
The foregoing non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, total debt, net income, cash flows or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP as more fully discussed in the Company's financial statements and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 23, 2004

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
- Schlumberger Limited (NYSE:SLB) today reported first quarter 2004 operating revenue of $3.02 billion versus $2.65 billion in 2003. Income from continuing operations (before the previously announced charges) of $279 million, or $0.47 per share, was 87% higher than last year. Including after-tax charges of $152 million, income from continuing operations was $127 million, or $0.22 per share.
NEW YORK, April 23, 2004
 
Discontinued operations recorded a gain of $93 million ($0.15 per share) in the quarter, resulting in net income of $220 million, or $0.37 per share.
 
Oilfield Services revenue of $2.36 billion increased 2% compared to the fourth quarter of 2003, and 15% compared to the same quarter of last year. Pretax operating income of $423 million increased 1% sequentially and 31% year-on-year.
 
WesternGeco revenue of $313 million was 2% higher sequentially and year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $34 million improved $1 million sequentially and compared to break-even in the first quarter of 2003.
 
Other activities, which comprise mainly Axalto, Electricity Meters North America and Business Continuity had revenue of $349 million and pretax operating income of $26 million.
 
Schlumberger Chairman and CEO Andrew Gould commented, "First quarter activity was particularly strong in Canada, India, Indonesia, West Africa, and on land in the United States. These gains offset slow activity in Venezuela, the Gulf Coast, and the Caspian. Western-Geco continued to progress due largely to recovery in Multiclient sales in the Gulf of Mexico.
 
The quarter marked the completion of the sale of SchlumbergerSema as well as the divestiture of a number of other non-oilfield businesses. As a result, net debt dropped below $3 billion at the end of the quarter. Programs for the remaining divestitures are in place and significant steps have been made to restructure our debt for a more efficient capital structure.
 
The activity confirmed our belief that E&P spending will remain robust in the face of increased demand from China and the United States. While fundamentals for the remainder of the year remain strong, geopolitical and local industry conditions continue to restrict investment and activity in some parts of the world, moderating short-term growth."
:
Note
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Stated in thousands except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
Net Debt represents gross debt less cash, short-term investments and fixed income investments, held to maturity. Details of the Net Debt follows:
 
 
 
 
The first quarter of 2004 excludes a pretax charge of $73 million for the US Interest Rate Swap write off, a pretax loss of $14 on the sale of Atos Origin shares, a pretax charge of $77 million of debt extinguishment costs and a pretax charge of $20 million related to the restructuring program in the United States.
 
 
First quarter revenue of $2.36 billion was 2% higher sequentially and increased 15% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $423 million increased 1% sequentially and rose 31% year-on-year.
 
Sequential growth was strongest in the Canada, US Land, West Africa and India GeoMarkets. Demand was particularly strong for Integrated Project Management services while Drilling & Measurements, Well Services and Wireline technologies grew sequentially. Demand for the PowerDrive* rotary steerable family continued to increase particularly in the Gulf of Mexico and the Middle East.
 
Many regions experienced year-on-year growth, which, due to high operating leverages, generally translated into significant increases in pretax operating income. Canada, US Land, Mexico, Indonesia and the East Mediterranean GeoMarkets posted the highest revenue growth year-on-year, slightly offset by decreased activity in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf Coast GeoMarkets. Demand for all technology segments increased significantly, but particularly for Integrated Project Management, Well Services and Drilling & Measurements.
 
North America
 
Revenue of $725 million increased 7% sequentially and 17% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $123 million increased 16% sequentially and 66% year-on-year due to improved market dynamics such as higher natural gas prices together with optimism in the US economy.
 
US Land delivered robust revenue growth both sequentially and year-on-year principally fueled by Well Services and Wireline due to the expansion of the unconventional gas market, an improved pricing environment as a result of tighter resource availability and strong overall market demand. Seasonal activity increases, pricing improvements, market share gain and a strengthening Canadian dollar were contributing factors to the strong sequential and year-on-year growth in Canada, along with increased Well Services and Wireline activity. Reduced rig activity on the shelf resulted in a year-on-year revenue decline in the Gulf of Mexico, partially mitigated by growth in Integrated Project Management. Sequentially, strong Drilling & Measurement activity was fueled by high demand for PowerDrive* and PowerDrive Xceed* which continue to increase drilling performance and reduce total well construction costs for the E&P industry.
 
Schlumberger conducted two of the largest borehole seismic surveys ever using the new 40 VSI* shuttle Versatile Seismic Imager tool for sub-salt imaging in the Gulf of Mexico. Both surveys used the new Enhanced Digital Telemetry System (EDTS), allowing for a record-breaking time while providing rapid acquisition rates without sacrificing data quality.
 
Latin America
 
Revenue of $395 million declined 3% sequentially but was 32% higher year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $61 million was 8% lower sequentially but increased 81% year-on-year.
Year-on-year growth was reflected in all GeoMarkets, with large integrated projects continuing to drive revenue by utilizing services from most technology segments. In Latin America South the completion of the first dozen wells of the Repsol-YPF D-150 contract fueled sequential and year-on-year growth. An increase in Wireline activity associated with the Peruvian jungle operations produced strong year-on-year growth while drilling times were reduced by more than half of the first well using the Data & Consulting Services and Drilling & Measurements No Drilling Surprises process.
 
Sequentially, revenue in Venezuela decreased substantially with both PDVSA and international operators reducing their activity. Activity is expected to further decline in the near term due to political uncertainty and on-going contractual issues.
 
Europe/CIS/West Africa
 
Revenue of $648 million decreased 3% sequentially but increased 5% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $106 million declined 8% sequentially but increased 4% year-on-year.
 
Sequential declines were due to reduced Caspian activity following strong Well Completions & Productivity sales of artificial lift pumps and PhaseWatcher* equipment in the previous quarter, less Integrated Project Management work and delayed stimulation activity in Russia, continued weak market conditions in the North Sea, and overall decreased seasonal activity for Schlumberger Information Solutions. This was partially offset by strong sequential revenue growth in West and South Africa led by Wireline and Well Completions & Productivity.
 
Year-on-year increases were notable in the Caspian, Continental Europe and West & South Africa GeoMarkets. Pretax operating income was negatively impacted by $6 million sequentially and $11 million year-on-year, through the appreciation of a number of local currencies against the US dollar.
 
Integrated Project Management was selected by the Russian oil and gas company OAO RITEK as the main contractor for a drilling project of ten horizontal wells in the Sredne-Khulymskoye field to enhance oil production. This is the first time in Russia that a service company will act as project manager to execute a horizontal well field development.
 
Middle East & Asia
 
Revenue of $559 million rose 4% sequentially and 11% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $139 million was up 6% sequentially and 20% year-on-year.
 
India recorded significant sequential and year-on-year revenue increases with the ramp-up in deepwater activity for ONGC and deepwater exploration activity for Reliance Industries Ltd. Sequential revenue growth was driven by strong LWD activity in Japan as well as increased completion and artificial lift sales in China. The Arabian GeoMarket also exhibited robust sequential growth mainly due to an offshore Coil Tubing campaign as well as increased Drilling & Measurements and Wireline activity. Market share gains and expansion in hydraulic fracturing in the East Africa and East Mediterranean GeoMarket also contributed to the sequential and year-on-year revenue growth. Indonesia contributed strong demand for Wireline, Drilling & Measurements, Integrated Project Management and Well Services technologies. Overall, the sequential improvement was partially offset by lower activity in the Gulf States and Malaysia/Brunei/Philippines GeoMarkets.
The exceptional success of the first year of Coiled Tubing Drilling (CTD) operations on the Sharjah project in UAE for BP led to a two-year contract extension. Operations were run with no accidents or spills and production increased significantly. Elsewhere a CTD record was broken with the deepest exit ever at 16,049 feet measured depth to drill a 1,976 feet lateral section.
 
The PhaseWatcher Vx multiphase fluid monitoring system is being implemented on a large scale after a two-year validation phase. The largest order ever was placed for a single field bringing the total number of meters to 33. Some of the meters include real-time data delivery via InterAct* real-time monitoring and data delivery service in order to improve production monitoring and production allocation accuracy.
 
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First quarter revenue of $313 million was 2% higher both sequentially and year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $34 million, including a $7 million release of employee related provisions, improved $1 million sequentially and $34 million year-on-year.
 
Sequentially, Multiclient sales grew 22% driven by the Central Gulf of Mexico lease sale partially offset by lower sales in the North Sea and West Africa. Land seismic was higher mainly in the Middle East on the start up of projects in Chad, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and the Petronas Land project in Malaysia. Marine seismic activity decreased 21% mainly in the Gulf of Mexico and the Caspian for seasonal reasons.
 
Year-on-year revenue growth was mainly due to a 25% increase in Multiclient sales driven by the Central Gulf of Mexico lease sale and by execution of a long-term Multiclient volume agreement signed in December 2003. This result was offset by lower Land seismic activity after the shutdown of crews in Alaska and in the Middle East.
 
Year-on-year increase in pretax operating income was mainly attributable to higher Multiclient sales coupled with savings related to restructuring measures taken in 2003. Multiclient drove sequential improvement in pretax operating income due to increased sales partially offset by sluggish Marine seismic activity.
 
Including Multiclient pre-commitments, the backlog at the end of the first quarter reached $479 million, a 17% increase over the previous quarter.
 
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
At historical exchange rates, Axalto revenue of $203 million increased by 26% year-on-year. At constant exchange rates, revenue increased by 16%. All segments of the smart cards business contributed to the growth. Axalto recorded a significant year-on-year increase in SIM (Subscriber Identity Module) cards volumes, up 26% to 49 million units in the quarter, in all geographic regions, while average sales prices decreased by 9%. Volume of microprocessor financial cards grew year-on-year 49% to 21 million units.
Electricity Meters North America revenue of $76 million grew 18% year-on-year mainly as the product mix shifted towards solid-state meters.
 
About Schlumberger
 
Schlumberger is the world's leading oilfield services company supplying technology, project management and information solutions that optimize performance for customers working in the oil and gas industry. The company employs more than 50,000 people of over 140 nationalities working in 100 countries, and comprises two primary business segments. Schlumberger Oilfield Services supplies a wide range of products and services from formation evaluation through directional drilling, well cementing and stimulation, well completions and productivity to consulting, software, information management and IT infrastructure services that support core industry operational processes. WesternGeco, jointly owned with BakerHughes, is the world's largest seismic company and provides advanced acquisition and data processing services. In 2003, Schlumberger operating revenue was $11.4 billion. For more information, visit www.slb.com
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
For more information, please contact:
 
Doug Pferdehirt, Vice President of Communications and Investor Relations
or
Paulo Loureiro, Investor Relations Manager
 
+1-212-350-9432
ir-nam@slb.com

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
Oilfield Services after-tax ROS in the first quarter 2004 was 13.8% versus 14.2% in the fourth quarter 2003. The deterioration in ROS was principally due to a negative currency effect in ECA, lower margins in Nigeria, the Norwegian sector of the North Sea and in South East Asia, and lower activity in Venezuela.
 
 
Sequentially, activity levels in Venezuela decreased substantially mainly due to operational efficiency issues at PDVSA and ongoing pressure on the Independent Oil Companies to reduce their level of activity. Additionally the company is facing ongoing contractual issues.
 
 
 
WesternGeco did not acquire any new multiclient surveys in the first quarter 2004 and does not expect to acquire any new surveys in 2004 unless significantly pre-funded.
 
However, Schlumberger capitalized $12 million related to processing of surveys previously acquired.
 
 
Multiclient sales in the quarter were $135 million. The corresponding cost of sales was $55 million. About 50% of the surveys sold had no NBV.
 
 
 
The main businesses that are reported under "Other" are Axalto, Electricity Meters North America, Payphones, Business Continuity, and Telecom Messaging Software.
 
Schlumberger already announced the expected IPO of Axalto and the sale of Business Continuity. The closing of the sale of Electricity Meters is expected to be completed in the second quarter depending upon the successful completion of the Hart-Scott-Rodino review process.
 
The remaining Telecom Messaging Software and Payphones activities are under active sale negotiations.
 
The valuation of Axalto and the timing of the IPO are subject to market conditions. The company expects to proceed with an offer of a majority of the shares of Axalto.
 
 
 
The first quarter ETR from continuing operations before charges was 24%. We expect the full year 2004 ETR from continuing operations, before charges, to be in the mid twenties range. The ETR is particularly sensitive to the geographic business mix in WesternGeco.
 
 
Net debt of $2.96 billion at March 31, 2004, decreased $1.22 billion in the quarter, after the quarterly dividend payment of $110 million, due to cash flow from continuing operations, $1.2 billion from the sale of the SchlumbergerSema activity and the subsequent sale of Atos Origin shares, and $141 million from the sale of the Infodata and Telecom Billing Software activities, partially offset by $76 million related to the extinguishment of some European debt.
 
 
 
The company believes that strong credit metrics are an integral component of its business model, due to the cyclical nature of its activities. Management expects to reach a net debt level of $2 billion by year end.
 
 
Interest income of $14 million increased $0.4 million sequentially. Average return of 1.8% decreased by 0.3% sequentially. Average investment balance of $3.1 billion was up $630 million sequentially due mainly to liquidity generated by operations and divestiture proceeds.
 
Including the $73 million pretax charge related to the interest rate swap, interest expense of $143 million increased $70 million sequentially. Excluding the charge, interest expense decreased $4 million sequentially. Average borrowing rates of 4.0% increased from 3.9% last quarter. Average debt balance of $6.9 billion decreased $429 million sequentially.
 
Schlumberger expects the net interest expense for the full year to be in the range of $160-170 million.
 
 
The difference of $6.6 million in the quarter came from Oilfield Services headquarters projects and costs plus Oilfield Services consolidation eliminations.
 
 
The $57.5 million pretax eliminations during the quarter included items such as corporate headquarters expenses, interest on post-retirement benefits, amortization of identifiable intangibles, currency exchange losses and gains and employee stock purchase and stock option costs.
 
 
Schlumberger started a restructuring exercise to lower the annual run rate of overhead by $35 million from 2005 onwards. Consequently, we recorded a $14 million after-tax charge during the quarter.
 
 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is calculated by first adding back to net income the interest expense on the convertible bonds and then dividing this adjusted net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution, the calculation of which includes the shares from the conversion of convertible bonds and assumes that all stock options which are in the money are exercised at the beginning of the period and the proceeds used, by Schlumberger, to purchase shares at the average market price for the period.
 
The shares from the potential conversion of the convertible bonds amount to 19 million shares and the interest expense on the convertible bonds was $7.2 million in the first quarter.
 
 
The material defined benefit plans include plans in the USA and the United Kingdom. Each of these plans is under-funded on an actuarial basis as a result of lower interest rates and poor financial market performance. The company will increase its funding of the plans over the next few years unless there is a meaningful recovery in the markets and/or interest rates rise.
 
In accordance with FASB #87, the company has recorded a cumulative increase in the pension liability of $317 million pretax at March 31, 2004, compared to $428 million at December 31, 2003. Excluding the effect of the SchlumbergerSema divestiture in the quarter, there was virtually no change in the cumulative pension liability. The offset has been recorded in Other Comprehensive Income. The minimum liability represents the difference between the Accumulated Benefit Obligation (present value of benefits earned to date) and the plan assets plus the balance sheet accrual at March 31, 2004.
 
 
Annualized ROCE in the first quarter 2004 was 13.3% compared to 12.0% in the fourth quarter 2003. The increase in the quarter reflected a significantly lower capital employed after $1.2 billion reduction in net debt.
 
 
 
This question and answer document, the first quarter 2004 earnings release and other statements we make contain forward looking statements, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our expectations regarding business outlook, economic recovery, expected capex and depreciation and amortization charges, the acquisition of new multi-client surveys, the funding of pension plans and related pension expense, the likelihood and timing of and the benefits to be derived from divestitures, the likelihood and timing of the Axalto IPO, conditions in the oilfield service business, including activity levels during 2004 and higher E&P investment, the introduction of new technologies and services, oil and natural gas production, benefits from contract awards, our ability to achieve our debt reduction goals, future results of operations, interest expense, reductions in overhead expense, pricing, future effective tax rates, the gain on the sale of SchlumbergerSema and the timing of and proceeds from the sale of Atos Origin shares. These statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the extent and timing of a rebound in the global economy; changes in exploration and production spending by major oil companies; recovery of activity levels, improved pricing and realization of cost reduction and cost savings targets associated with the seismic business; market acceptance of Q seismic and other technologies; general economic and business conditions in key regions of the world, including Venezuela; political and economic uncertainty in Venezuela and Nigeria and further socio-political unrest in the Persian Gulf and/or Asia; our ability to complete and benefits to be derived from other divestitures; our ability to achieve growth objectives in IT solutions to upstream E&P business; a rebound in the IT environment and an increase in IT spending; the extent and timing of a recovery in the telecommunications industry; our ability to meet our identified liquidity projections, including the generation of sufficient cash flow from oilfield operating results and the successful completion of certain business divestitures; potential contributions to pension plans; and other factors detailed in our first quarter 2004 earnings release, our most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those forecasted or expected. Schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 


