FILE:SLB/SLB-8K-20050125064732.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2004 Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and the Question and Answer document attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2, which are incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference, were posted on the Schlumberger internet web site (www.slb.com/ir) on January 25, 2005.
 
In addition to financial results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) that are included in the attached Fourth Quarter and Full Year Press Release and Question and Answer document, these documents also include the following non-GAAP financial measures (as defined under the SEC's Regulation G):
 
 
 
  The following is a reconciliation of :
 
 
 
 
- Management believes that the exclusion of these items enables it to evaluate more effectively the Company's operations period over period and to identify operating trends that could otherwise be masked by the excluded items.
Reasons for excluding credits and charges
The foregoing non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, total debt, net income, cash flows or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP as more fully discussed in the Company's financial statements and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The exhibits listed below are furnished pursuant to Item 9.01 of this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: January 25, 2005

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 Schlumberger Limited (NYSE:SLB) reported today 2004 operating revenue of $11.48 billion versus $10.02 billion in 2003.
NEW YORK, January 25, 2005
 
Income from continuing operations, before credits and charges, of $1.21 billion was 45% higher than last year, representing diluted earnings per share of $2.03 versus $1.43 in 2003. Income from continuing operations was $1.01 billion ($1.70 per share-diluted) compared to $398 million ($0.68 per share) last year. Net income of $1.22 billion more than tripled over the prior year with diluted earnings per share rising to $2.04 in 2004 from $0.65 in 2003.
 
Fourth Quarter Results
 
Fourth quarter operating revenue of $3.07 billion was 6% above the prior quarter and 17% higher than the fourth quarter of 2003. Income from continuing operations was $351 million, or $0.59 per share-diluted versus $0.50 in the third quarter of 2004 and $0.31 in the fourth quarter of last year. Excluding credits and charges, diluted-earnings per share were $0.52 in the third quarter of 2004 and $0.41 in the fourth quarter of 2003.
 
Discontinued operations recorded a loss of $22 million ($0.04 per share) in the quarter. Net income was $330 million, or $0.55 per share-diluted, compared to net income of $177 million, or $0.30 per share-diluted last year.
 
Oilfield Services revenue of $2.73 billion increased 5% sequentially and 18% compared to the same quarter of last year. Pretax business segment operating income of $483 million increased 10% sequentially and 15% year-on-year.
 
WesternGeco revenue of $333 million increased 11% sequentially and 8% year-on-year. Pretax business segment operating income of $43 million improved $10 million sequentially and $11 million compared to the same quarter of last year.
 
Schlumberger Chairman and CEO Andrew Gould commented, "Strong fourth-quarter activity resulted in new record levels of Oilfield Services revenue and pretax operating income. Activity increased in almost all regions with the largest year-on-year growth recorded in the GeoMarkets in India; Malaysia, Brunei and the Philippines; Canada; East Africa and the Eastern Mediterranean; and Arabia. On a yearly basis, Russia continued to make impressive progress with growth exceeding our expectations despite the absence of any activity for Yuganskneftegas in the quarter.
 
Pricing increases in North America accelerated during the quarter, particularly in Canada and US Land. In addition, contract awards and renewals in the Eastern Hemisphere were generally executed at improved pricing levels.
 
The introduction and market penetration of new technology also contributed to the growth. The Drilling & Measurements PowerDrive family, together with Wireline Analysis Behind Casing and PressureXpress services and Well Services stimulation technologies, all made very satisfactory progress. The rate of new technology introductions will accelerate over the coming two-year period.
 
WesternGeco delivered excellent results driven by further uptake of Q-Technology and increased multiclient library sales. The marine seismic market began to tighten with vessel utilization rising and pricing increasing.
 
The industry is now clearly focused on the need to build additional supply capacity for both oil and gas. This is evidenced by increasing exploration budgets and new field development plans, as well as unprecedented efforts to increase production and recovery from existing reservoirs. Strong market fundamentals, our extensive technology portfolio and unique global workforce make us ideally placed to grow in this environment.
 
We are pleased to announce that the Board of Directors approved a 12% increase in the quarterly dividend."
 
Other Events:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The first quarter of 2004 includes a $14 million ($0.02 per share) loss on the sale of Atos Origin shares.
The second quarter of 2004 includes a $7 million ($0.01 per share) loss on the sale of Atos Origin shares.
 
The fourth quarter of 2003 includes a $20 million ($0.03 per share) credit (pretax $32 million, tax charge $12 million) related to the gain on the sale of a note and a pretax and after-tax charge of $81 million ($0.13 per share) related to the write down of an investment.
The first quarter of 2004 includes a $14 million ($0.02 per share) charge (pretax $20 million and tax benefit of $6 million) related to the restructuring program in the United States.
The second quarter of 2004 includes a pretax and after-tax idle leased facility reserve of $11 million ($0.02 per share), a reorganization reserve of $4 million ($0.01 per share) and a litigation reserve release of $5 million ($0.01 per share).
The third quarter of 2004 includes a pretax and after-tax $3 million severance charge and a $10 million charge ($0.02 per share) related to an Intellectual Property settlement (pretax $11 million and tax benefit of $1 million).
The third quarter of 2003 includes an $86 million pretax and after-tax charge ($0.14 per share) related to the repurchase of UK Pound and Euro denominated Bonds.
The first quarter of 2004 includes a $77 million pretax and after-tax charge ($0.13 per share) related to the repurchase of UK Pound and Euro denominated Bonds.
The second quarter of 2004 includes $23 million ($0.04 per share) related to the repurchase of US Dollar denominated Bonds (pretax $37 million and tax benefit of $14 million).
The second quarter of 2004 includes a gain of $6 million ($0.01 per share) on the settlement of the US Interest Rate Swap (pretax $10 million and tax of $3 million).
 
 
Assets and liabilities held for sale at December 31, 2003 represent the gross assets and liabilities of the SchlumbergerSema business.
 
 
Net debt represents gross debt less cash, short-term investments and fixed income investments, held to maturity. Details of the net debt follow:
 
 
 
 
The third quarter of 2003 excludes debt extinguishment costs of $86 million pretax and a pretax charge of $421 million for impairment and other charges/credits.
The fourth quarter of 2003 excludes a net charge of $49 million for the write down of an investment and the gain on sale of a note.
The first quarter of 2004 excludes a pretax charge of $73 million for the US Interest Rate Swap write off, a pretax loss of $14 on the sale of Atos Origin shares, a pretax charge of $77 million of debt extinguishment costs and a pretax charge of $20 million related to the restructuring program in the United States.
The second quarter of 2004 excludes a pretax loss of $7 million on the sale of Atos Origin shares, a pretax idle leased facility reserve of $11 million, a pretax reorganization reserve of $4 million, a pretax release of a litigation reserve of $5 million, a pretax gain of $10 million for the settlement of the US Interest Rate Swap and a pretax charge of $37 million of debt extinguishment costs.
The third quarter of 2004 excludes a pretax charge of $11 million for an Intellectual Property settlement and a pretax $3 million severance charge.
 
 
Revenue of $10.24 billion increased 16% in 2004 versus 2003. North America and Middle East & Asia each increased by 18%, and Latin America increased 21%. Europe/CIS/West Africa was up by 4%. Pretax operating income of $1.80 billion in 2004 was 17% higher than in 2003.
 
Fourth-quarter revenue of $2.73 billion was 5% higher sequentially and increased 18% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $483 million increased 10% sequentially and grew 15% year-on-year.
 
Overall sequential revenue increases were highest in the Canada, Mexico, India, Venezuela and East Africa GeoMarkets. By technology, all segments were higher with demand particularly strong for Wireline and Well Services.
 
Robust year-on-year revenue growth was experienced across all regions with the US Land, Canada, Mexico, Russia, West Africa, India, the Arabian and Gulf GeoMarkets posting the highest increases. Double-digit growth was experienced by all service technology segments.
 
North America
 
Revenue of $847 million increased 7% sequentially and 25% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $157 million rose 32% sequentially and 48% year-on-year.
 
Sequential revenue growth was due to increased activity in Canada and the resumption of drilling in the Gulf Coast after weather-related slowdowns in the prior quarter. In addition to the strength of the drilling activity, market share gains and higher pricing also contributed to the strong performance in Canada.
 
Robust pretax operating income growth in US Land was mainly due to increased operating leverage, with double-digit price improvements experienced in Wireline and Well Services from 2003 averages. In Canada, a favorable geographical mix, coupled with sustained pricing improvements, also led to the improvement in the operating margin.
 
During the quarter the technology component of turnkey service revenue in the Gulf of Mexico was evaluated against our objectives but proved insufficient to outweigh the risk associated with the turnkey drilling business model. As a result, the decision was made to exit the activity. During the quarter, pretax operational losses and termination costs of $10 million were incurred.
 
In the quarter a number of key technology solutions were deployed across the Area. Working on a deepwater project, ChevronTexaco, together with Schlumberger Drilling & Measurements, successfully developed and deployed the world's first 26-inch PowerDrive vorteX* high performance rotary steerable system. This unique tool configuration improved both drilling efficiency and well placement accuracy.
 
In the Gulf of Mexico, the Offshore Minerals Management Program, a division of the United States Department of Interior Minerals Management Service, selected the Schlumberger Information Solutions next-generation data repository and logical data model as a foundation component for their phased, multi-year Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) transformation project, OCS Connect.
 
Well Services introduced carbon-dioxide-compatible ClearFRAC* CO
2
, the latest addition to the ClearFRAC family of viscoelastic surfactant fracturing fluids. This unique fluid system extends the application of ClearFRAC technology to the tight-gas and mature reservoir markets. This system was extensively field tested in the United States and Canada during the second half of 2004, showing improved well economics over traditional polymer-based fracturing systems.
 
Key contracts secured in the quarter included a multi-year award from BHP Billiton for 100% of the wireline, LWD/MWD, PowerDrive* rotary steerable and Oilphase* fluid sampling and analysis services on their Gulf of Mexico operations.
 
Latin America
 
Revenue of $491 million was up 13% sequentially and 20% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $53 million increased 17% sequentially but declined 21% year-on-year.
 
While all GeoMarkets posted sequential revenue increases, results were strongest in Mexico and Venezuela, with demand higher across all technology Segments. The revenue increase in Mexico was mainly due to the return of PEMEX drilling activity levels to those experienced prior to the third quarter, coupled with higher levels of Integrated Project Management (IPM) activity on the Burgos projects. Revenue in Venezuela improved markedly with increased drilling activity and market share, primarily due to Drilling & Measurements and Wireline technologies. During the quarter, contract negotiations continued with PDVSA on certain integrated projects.
 
Sequential operating income improved on higher activity in Mexico and Venezuela. However, the consequent improvement in operating margin was moderated by a larger contribution of Schlumberger-managed third-party services on IPM projects in Mexico.
 
The year-on-year operating margin decline was mainly attributable to higher project costs in Mexico and reduced levels of IPM activity in Venezuela.
 
During the quarter, Well Completions & Productivity engineered a new and unique solution combining electrical submersible pump technology with well testing services for a heavy oil environment offshore in the Bay of Campeche. The successful results enabled PEMEX to better evaluate and understand the reservoir.
 
Also in Mexico, PEMEX awarded Schlumberger a new 350-well IPM contract in the Burgos Basin. The multi-year contract value is estimated at $550 million and will include drilling and completion work for development and appraisal gas wells.
 
Europe/CIS/West Africa
 
Revenue of $699 million declined 5% sequentially but increased 4% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $106 million decreased 9% sequentially and 8% year-on-year.
 
Sequentially, the revenue declined mainly due to a halt of activities for Yuganskneftegas in Russia and the seasonal weather-related slowdown in the Caspian Sea. The successful redeployment of the equipment previously working for Yuganskneftegas was completed in the quarter.
 
Year-on-year growth was primarily driven by the Russia, West Africa and Continental Europe GeoMarkets. In Russia, business grew by more than 30%, mainly due to continued expansion of the customer base and the deployment of new production-related technologies. These included PhaseTester*, ABC* Analysis Behind Casing and MaxTRAC* technology services. Activity growth in the West Africa GeoMarket resulted from continued interest in deepwater projects by international oil companies, increasing demand for Well Services and Well Completions & Productivity technology services. This demand also resulted in the M/V stimulation vessel recording a 38% activity increase over the prior year. Growth in the Continental Europe GeoMarket was mainly due to market share gains in Eastern Europe.
Galaxie
 
Operating income was adversely affected by lower activity in the Caspian Sea, coupled with redeployment costs and associated decreased operating efficiency in Russia, and persistent union strikes in Norway. The weakening of the US dollar against other currencies had a negative impact of $7 million year-on-year. These negative effects were partially offset by the continued strengthening of offshore drilling activity in Nigeria.
 
During the quarter, key technology solutions were deployed across the Area. In the UK, FSI* FloScan Imager was used for Shell to acquire logging data in horizontal wells, providing continuous operations and rig-time savings. Utilizing InterACT* the logs were transmitted to the customer in real time for immediate interpretation and rapid decision-making, which ultimately led to successful gas shut-off.
 
In West Africa, the first Wireline MaxTRAC downhole well tractor system was used to deploy a VSI* Versatile Seismic Imager tool for TOTAL Congo as part of their extended-reach drilling campaign. This groundbreaking job saved time and reduced costs for the operator.
 
Key contract awards during the quarter included a contract for more than $100 million by Sibneft to provide well construction and stimulation services in Western Siberia.
 
Middle East & Asia
 
Revenue of $665 million increased 8% sequentially and 24% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $182 million increased 10% sequentially and 39% year-on-year.
 
Sequential revenue growth was primarily driven by the GeoMarkets in the Middle East, Malaysia and India. Activity in Saudi Arabia was focused on increasing production capacity, resulting in higher levels of drilling activity throughout the quarter. This trend is expected to continue in the coming quarters. Activity in Qatar continued to increase due to ongoing gas development projects in the North Field. Increased deepwater activity in India continued to build on strong performance with additional offshore rigs deploying Drilling & Measurements and Wireline technologies. Demand for Well Completions & Productivity technologies was particularly strong in the quarter, mainly in the Gulf from projects with RasGas, in Saudi Arabia from the commissioning of the Abu Safah project, and in Malaysia from higher testing activities and artificial lift sales.
 
Pretax operating margins increased to 27.4% driven primarily by improved pricing on contract renewals and technology introductions.
 
During the quarter, key technology solutions were deployed across the Area. The CHDT* Cased Hole Dynamic Tester tool, part of the suite of ABC Analysis Behind Casing technology services, was used to identify a high-pressured zone in a depleted reservoir in China; to acquire pressures and fluid samples in Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi; and to acquire samples and pressure readings in Malaysia in two wells where conventional, open-hole methods were not successful.
 
In the quarter a number of contracts were awarded. These included a multi-year contract from ONGC India for all wireline logging, perforating and drill-stem test work for their offshore operations. The value of this contract is estimated at more than $125 million.
 
In the Gulf, demonstrated service quality and the introduction of new technology services led to the award of major contracts in Qatar and Oman. These included a $320 million multi-year wireline and tubing conveyed perforating contract by Petroleum Development Oman (PDO) for their North and South operations.
 
In Brunei, Shell awarded Schlumberger a multi-year contract for a multi-purpose service vessel and all associated services. The contract is valued at $60 million and includes wireline, directional drilling, LWD/MWD, cementing, coiled tubing, gravel packing and other associated services.
 
In Indonesia, TOTAL awarded Schlumberger a data storage and consolidation contract, which included rental, maintenance and support of information storage, network, connection equipment, operating system and management software  along with continuous integration to existing hardware and systems.
 
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operating revenue increased 5% to $1.24 billion in 2004 from $1.18 billion in 2003. Pretax operating income reached $124 million in 2004 versus a loss of $20 million in 2003. These improvements were attributable to the successful expansion of Q-Technology*, a strong year for Multiclient sales, and overall cost reduction. Q* revenue grew from $79 million in 2003 to $162 million in 2004, with a similar growth rate expected in 2005.
 
Fourth-quarter revenue of $333 million was 11% higher sequentially and increased 8% compared to the same period last year. Pretax operating income of $43 million improved by $10 million sequentially and $11 million year-on-year.
 
Sequentially, Multiclient sales increased 53% mainly in the Gulf of Mexico, resulting from high levels of customer interest, and in preparation for the central Gulf of Mexico lease sale in the first quarter of 2005. Land activity increased 15% mainly in the Middle East with more crews active in Libya, Algeria and Saudi Arabia. Data Processing increased 10% reflecting higher acquisition volume. Marine activity declined 22% reflecting the seasonal slowdown in the North Sea, adverse weather in Latin America and a high number of vessel transits during the quarter. Marine activity in the first half of 2005 is expected to recover with higher vessel utilization and improved pricing.
 
Year-on-year Multiclient sales increased by 18%, mainly in North America, driven by the high oil and gas price environment and a pending lease sale in the central Gulf of Mexico.
 
Sequential operating income increases were mainly due to accelerating demand for reservoir-focused Q-Marine* activity, together with Multiclient sales. This strong result was partially offset by the high costs of the exceptionally large number of vessel transits during the quarter.
 
The WesternGeco backlog at the end of the fourth quarter reached $670 million, increasing 11% over the previous quarter and more than doubling year-on-year.
 
Other Events:
 
WesternGeco and Schlumberger have received grand jury subpoenas from the U.S. Attorney's office in the Southern District of Texas seeking documents relating to possible fraud in obtaining visas for non-U.S. citizens working as crewmembers on vessels operating in the Gulf of Mexico. We are in the process of responding to the investigation, including providing information sought by the subpoenas. The Company is unable to predict the timing or outcome of this matter.
 
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
About Schlumberger
 
Schlumberger is the world's leading oilfield services company supplying technology, project management and information solutions that optimize performance for customers working in the oil and gas industry. The company employs more than 52,000 people of over 140 nationalities working in 100 countries, and comprises two business segments. Schlumberger supplies a wide range of products and services from formation evaluation through directional drilling, well cementing and stimulation, well completions and productivity to consulting, software, information management and IT infrastructure services that support core industry operational processes. WesternGeco, jointly owned with Baker Hughes, is the world's largest seismic company and provides advanced acquisition and data processing services. In 2004, Schlumberger operating revenue was $11.48 billion. For more information, visit
slb.com.
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
For more information, please contact:
 
Doug Pferdehirt, Vice President of Communications and Investor Relations
or
Paulo Loureiro, Investor Relations Manager
 
+1-212-350-9432
investor-relations@slb.com
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
Oilfield Services pretax return on sales in the fourth quarter was 17.7% compared to 16.9% in the third quarter of 2004.
 
 
The Capex is expected to reach $1.17 billion for the full year 2005 versus $1.06 billion in 2004.
 
The D&A is expected to be $850 million for the full year 2005.
 
 
 
In the quarter, WesternGeco capitalized $19 million related to the processing of surveys previously acquired.
 
 
Multiclient sales in the quarter were $132 million. The corresponding cost of sales was $58 million. About 46% of the surveys sold had no NBV. Less than 3% of the revenue came from surveys considered impaired in September 2003.
 
 
The 2005 Capex is expected to reach $215 million, excluding about $112 million of significantly pre-funded multiclient surveys.
 
 
Schlumberger has completed its annual impairment review of the multiclient library during the fourth quarter. The test revealed that no adjustment to the carrying value of the surveys on the balance sheet was required. At the end of 2004, the multiclient library had a net book value of $347 million down from $506 million at the beginning of the year.
 
 
 
The businesses that were previously included under the "Other" segment, Global Tel*Link, Payphones and Essentis, have been classified as discontinued during the quarter because
 
the Company expects to sell or otherwise dispose these businesses. The financial statements have been restated for comparative purposes to account for these discontinued operations.
 
 
Loss from discontinued operations in the quarter of $22 million included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schlumberger pretax return on sales for the fourth quarter was 14.6% compared to 13.1% in the third quarter.
 
Schlumberger after-tax before minority interest return on sales for the fourth quarter was 11.7% compared to 10.5% in the third quarter.
 
 
Schlumberger has two stock compensation plans  stock option awards and an employee stock purchase plan. Schlumberger started to record stock option expense in the income statement beginning in the second half of 2003, adopting the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123 on a prospective basis for grants after January 1, 2003.
 
The effect on the entire year 2003 net income was $13 million ($0.02 per share). The effect on the entire year 2004 net income was $26 million ($0.04 per share).
 
The share creep from both stock compensation plans represented about 7 million shares in 2004.
 
Effective July 1, 2005, Schlumberger will apply the provisions of SFAS 123R under the modified prospective method to the unvested portion of awards granted during the period January 1, 1995 to December 31, 2002. The Company will not restate prior quarters in 2005 or prior years.
 
Schlumberger has been and will continue to expense stock options using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
 
Schlumberger does not expect any significant changes to the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
 
 
After the quarterly dividend payment of $110 million, net debt of $1.46 billion at December 31, 2004, decreased $199 million in the quarter, mainly due to liquidity generated by the operations, partially offset by the stock buyback of $84 million and an adverse currency effect of $82 million.
 
 
The fourth quarter ETR from continuing operations was 20.2%.
 
For the total year 2005, Schlumberger expects the ETR to be in the mid-twenties range or slightly lower. The ETR is sensitive to several factors including the geographic mix of earnings, particularly in WesternGeco, and the expected resolution of tax audits in various countries.
 
 
Interest income of $16 million increased $0.85 million sequentially and $2.3 million compared to the same quarter last year. Average return of 2.4% increased by 0.1% sequentially and 0.3% year-on-year. Average investment balance of $2.6 billion was up $20 million sequentially and $80 million compared to the same quarter last year.
 
Interest expense of $45 million increased $1.1 million sequentially and decreased $28.5 million from the same quarter last year. Average borrowing rates of 3.9% were flat sequentially and decreased from 4.0% last year. Average debt balance of $4.5 billion increased $117 million sequentially and decreased $2.8 billion compared to the same quarter last year.
 
 
The difference of $15 million in the quarter came from Oilfield Services headquarters projects and costs together with Oilfield Services consolidation eliminations.
 
 
The $50 million pretax difference during the quarter included items such as corporate headquarters expenses, interest on post-retirement benefits, amortization of identifiable intangibles, employee stock purchase and stock option costs, Sarbanes-Oxley compliance costs, currency exchange losses of $10 million, and a release of excess insurance reserves of $7 million.
 
 
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by first adding back to net income the interest expense on the convertible bonds and then dividing this adjusted net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution, the calculation of which includes the shares from the conversion of convertible bonds and assumes that all stock options which are in the money are exercised at the beginning of the period and the proceeds used, by Schlumberger, to purchase shares at the average market price for the period.
 
If adding the interest expense on the convertible bonds back to net income and including the shares from the assumed conversion of the convertible bonds has an anti-dilutive effect on the diluted EPS calculation, then the effects of the convertible bonds are excluded from the calculation.
 
The shares from the potential conversion of the convertible bonds amount to 19 million and the interest expense on the convertible bonds was $7.2 million in the fourth quarter.
 
 
Annualized ROCE reached 19.1% in the fourth quarter of 2004 versus 17.1% in the third quarter of 2004 and 11.0% in the fourth quarter of 2003.
 
 
This question and answer document, the fourth quarter and full year 2004 earnings release and other statements we make contain forward looking statements, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our expectations regarding business outlook; growth for Schlumberger as a whole and for each of Oilfield Services and WesternGeco; oil and natural gas demand and production growth; operating and capital expenditures by Schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the business strategies of Schlumberger's customers; expected depreciation and amortization expense; and future results of operations. These statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the global economy; changes in exploration and production spending by Schlumberger's customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; general economic and business conditions in key regions of the world; political and economic uncertainty and socio-political unrest; and other factors detailed in our most recent Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those forecasted or expected. Schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 


