FILE:SLB/SLB-8K-20060721062456.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The Second Quarter 2006 Press Release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto, the Supplemental Information regarding Second Quarter 2006 Results furnished as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and the Supplemental Information regarding the WesternGeco Transaction furnished as Exhibit 99.3 hereto, were posted on the Schlumberger internet web site (www.slb.com/ir) on July 21, 2006.
In addition to financial results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) that are included in the attached Second Quarter 2006 Press Release and Supplemental Information, these documents also include the following non-GAAP financial measures (as defined under the SEC's Regulation G):
 
 
 
The foregoing non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, total debt, net income, cash flows or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP as more fully discussed in Schlumberger's financial statements and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
The exhibits listed below are furnished pursuant to Item 9.01 of this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 21, 2006

Exhibit 99.1
July 21, 2006  Schlumberger Limited (NYSE:SLB) today reported second-quarter 2006 operating revenue of $4.69 billion versus $4.24 billion in the first quarter of 2006 and $3.43 billion in the second quarter of last year.
NEW YORK,
Income from continuing operations, before charges and credits, reached $900 millionan increase of 25% sequentially and 90% year-on-year. Earnings-per-share diluted, before charges and credits, were $0.73, versus $0.59 in the previous quarter and $0.39 in the second quarter of last year.
Income from continuing operations, including charges and credits, was $0.69 per share-diluted versus $0.59 in the previous quarter and $0.39 in the second quarter of 2005. Net income was $857 million or $0.69 per share-diluted, compared to $0.59 in the previous quarter and $0.40 in the second quarter of 2005.
Oilfield Services revenue of $4.13 billion increased 11% sequentially and 36% year-on-year. Pretax business segment operating income of $1.12 billion increased 18% sequentially and 67% year-on-year.
WesternGeco revenue of $562 million increased 6% sequentially and 47% year-on-year. Pretax business segment operating income of $180 million increased 13% sequentially and 211% year-on-year.
Schlumberger Chairman and CEO Andrew Gould commented, "Led by increased demand for Q technology, seismic has now become the fastest growing Schlumberger Technology. WesternGeco revenue increased 47% year-on-year and the segment has the healthiest backlog in its history. This exploration-dominated growth demonstrates that our customers' concerns are as much a longer-term preoccupation with the renewal of reserves through defining new reservoirs, as they are concerns with short-term production volumes. The accelerating growth rates of our reservoir characterization and well testing technology portfolios serve as confirmation of this trend.
The second-quarter growth patterns proved to be the opposite of the first quarter of 2006. Sequential growth in North America slowed as impressive results in US Land and exceptional performance in the US Gulf Coast were partially offset by a prolonged spring break-up in Canada. Outside North America, sequential growth rates improved dramatically as Russia recovered from the severe winter weather and other regions showed accelerating trends.
Many Schlumberger Technologies saw positive sequential growth rates worldwide with Seismic, Drilling & Measurements, Well Testing, Completion Systems, and Integrated Project Management being particularly strong, driven by a combination of increased activity, project demand, and technology-led pricing power.
During the quarter, we made several small but highly significant acquisitions that will add to our reservoir definition capability. We also completed the final stage of the acquisition of PetroAlliance whose performance over the past year has far exceeded our original expectations.
 
Page 1 of 16
Sequential growth rates for the remainder of 2006 will continue to be strong, particularly in the Eastern Hemisphere, albeit at slightly lower levels than the blistering pace of the second quarter. In North America some temporary slowing of natural gas drilling activity cannot be excluded though currently there are no clear signs of this."
Other Events:
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 16
 
 
 
Page 3 of 16
 
There were no charges or credits in the first quarter of 2006 or the second quarter of 2005.
 
Page 4 of 16
 
 
Page 5 of 16
Net debt represents gross debt less cash, short-term investments, and fixed-income investments, held to maturity. Management believes that "net debt" provides useful information regarding the level of Schlumberger indebtedness. Details of the net debt follow:
 
 
 
Page 6 of 16
In addition to financial results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), this Second-Quarter Earnings Press Release also includes non-GAAP financial measures (as defined under SEC Regulation G). The following is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP measures:
 
 
 
Page 7 of 16
 
Pretax operating income represents the segments' income before taxes and minority interest. The pretax operating income excludes corporate expenses, interest income, interest expense, amortization of certain intangible assets, interest on post-retirement benefits, stock-based compensation costs, and the charges and credits described on page 4, as these items are not allocated to the segments.
 
Page 8 of 16
Second-quarter revenue of $4.13 billion was 11% higher sequentially and 36% higher year-on-year.
Sequential revenue increases were highest in the US Land, US Gulf Coast, Mexico, North Sea, West Africa, Arabian, Gulf, and Russian GeoMarkets. All Technologies contributed to the strong growth with Drilling & Measurements, Well Testing, Integrated Project Management (IPM), and Completion Systems recording double-digit increases.
Pretax operating income of $1.12 billion increased 18% sequentially and 67% year-on-year. These results were driven by higher activity, increased pricing, stronger demand for higher-margin technologies, and operating efficiency improvements. The combination of these factors resulted in sequential growth of 160 basis points (bps) in pretax operating margins to reach 27.2%.
During the quarter, Schlumberger acquired TerraTek, Inc., a global leader in geomechanics measurements and analysis. TerraTek will become the Schlumberger Geomechanics Laboratory Center of Excellenceproviding rock mechanics evaluations, unconventional gas reservoir analysis, large-scale drilling and completions performance testing, and log-to-core integration. This acquisition provides unparalleled expertise in technologies to reduce reservoir risk and uncertainty by delivering superior reservoir characterization.
North America
Revenue of $1.27 billion increased 3% sequentially and 40% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $376 million was flat sequentially but increased 61% year-on-year.
Revenue growth in the Area was driven primarily by strong demand for Wireline, Drilling & Measurements, and Well Testing technologies, coupled with an increase in Completions technology product sales in the US Gulf Coast, and higher activity and continuing price increases in the US Land GeoMarket. Revenue growth in the Area was partially offset by Canada where the longer-than-expected spring break-up and continual heavy rains during the quarter caused the active rig count to fall 61% sequentially.
Sequential pretax operating income was driven by the favorable activity mix, price increases, and accelerated adoption of new technology in the US Gulf Coast and US Land GeoMarkets. This was offset by Canada with the absence of high-margin winter projects, lower Arctic revenues, and the impact of the prolonged spring break-up in the West.
In the US Gulf Coast, Schlumberger successfully completed multiple completion and well testing operations on Chevron's Jack prospect well test. PowerFlow* tubing-conveyed perforating, IRIS* downhole testing, SenTREE* high-performance subsea well control test tree, Vx* multi-phase flow metering, and PVT Express* fluid sampling and analysis services were deployed, enabling ultra high-pressure completion and well testing. The Jack well was completed and tested in 7,000 ft of water at more than 20,000 ft beneath the sea floor, breaking the 2004 Tahiti discovery well record as the deepest well test in the Gulf of Mexico.
 
Page 9 of 16
Also in the US Gulf Coast, a new world record for subsea completions was established on Kerr-McGee's Merganser #1 well. The SenTREE 7* well control and Commander* telemetry control and monitoring systems were deployed in 7,919 ft of water, the greatest depth in which a subsea completion has been installed from a dynamically positioned rig with a subsea completion tree. This operation surpasses the previous record of 7,209 ft set by Schlumberger on the Canyon Express project for Total and Marathon.
The REDA Hotline* electrical submersible pump (ESP) artificial lift system operating on the Firebag P2P1 well for Suncor Energy Inc. in Canada passed an operating milestone during the quarter. The system has now been working successfully for more than one year in a heavy oil reservoir under steam injection where temperatures regularly exceed 250 degrees Celsius.
Latin America
Revenue of $666 million increased 12% sequentially and 20% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $128 million increased 33% sequentially and 53% year-on-year.
Sequential revenue growth in the Area was attributable primarily to the rising rig count and increased demand for PowerDrive* and Scope* Drilling & Measurements technologies. Increased activity on integrated projects in Mexico, stronger Artificial Lift technology product sales in the Peru/Colombia/Ecuador GeoMarket, and rising demand for Completions technology equipment in the Venezuela/Trinidad & Tobago GeoMarket also contributed to the growth.
The strong sequential gain in pretax operating margins of 300 bps was mainly driven by higher Drilling & Measurements and Well Services activity across the Area, combined with stronger pricing gains on product sales in the Latin America South GeoMarket and improved performance-related incentives on the Casabe integrated production management project in Colombia.
Discussions regarding the settlement of certain outstanding receivables for the PRISA contract in Venezuela were ongoing at the end of the quarter.
In Mexico, Pemex used the Sonic Scanner* acoustic scanning tool in combination with the MDT* Modular Formation Dynamics Tester fluid-sampling tool to accurately evaluate porosity type, fluid type, pressure, well design, and potential production. The customer's deployment of this new measurement technique greatly reduced the uncertainty in the reservoir model and helped to successfully identify additional reserves in the asset.
In Peru, Repsol used a combination of artificial-lift and drill-stem testing technologies, together with the PowerJet Omega* deep-penetrating perforating charges, the PVT Express* well fluid analysis system, and EverGreen* burner technology, to successfully test their Delfin-1 exploration well. This integration of technology enabled Repsol to limit the rig time required for well testing and to obtain fast, accurate results on site.
 
Page 10 of 16
Europe/CIS/Africa
Revenue of $1.18 billion increased 18% sequentially and 43% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $294 million increased 40% sequentially and 91% year-on-year.
Sequential revenue growth in the Area was mainly driven by higher activity across Russia following the end of the extreme winter weather conditions experienced in the previous quarter, and increased demand for IPM, Well Services, and Drilling & Measurements services. The North Sea GeoMarket achieved double-digit growth due primarily to higher exploration activity in Norway, accelerating demand for PURE* and Quicksilver Probe* Wireline technologies, and higher demand for Well Testing services. Double-digit growth was also recorded in the Continental Europe and Nigeria GeoMarkets due to increased activity, and in North Africa due to strong demand for Well Testing services.
Robust sequential gains in pretax operating margins of 390 bps resulted from strengthening pricing, higher efficiency, increased demand for Wireline and Drilling & Measurements new technologies, and the favorable activity mix in the developing exploration market.
During the quarter, Shell extended their pan-European contracts for Drilling & Measurements and Wireline logging services for a further two years at attractive commercial rates. The exceptional safety record, good service quality, and high level of support provided during the past three years led to these contract extensions.
The first espWatcher* system for Petrom was installed on their Gloria Platform offshore Romania. This data acquisition system for monitoring and surveillance of electrical submersible pumps has already led to significant production increases at levels above the client's expectations. Other benefits realized by the customer include improvements in the economics of their artificial lift methods and a better understanding of the field.
Statoil and Schlumberger Information Solutions (SIS) announced the start of a three-year technology collaboration agreement to develop new production-optimization technologies to extend the life of oil and gas fields. In addition to new technology development, the agreement calls for standardizing and automating workflow processes with the goal of increasing oil recovery and accelerating production by identifying best practices and information management processes for the complete producing asset, including the processing facilities.
Middle East & Asia
Revenue of $975 million increased 13% sequentially and 33% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $322 million increased 19% sequentially and 56% year-on-year.
The strong sequential revenue growth resulted from new exploration activity and higher rig count levels, coupled with improved pricing across the Middle East; sustained demand for new technology and higher coiled-tubing drilling activity in the U.A.E; increased activity in Australia and Vietnam; and higher activity and improved pricing in China.
Area pretax operating margins grew 170 bps sequentiallydue primarily to stronger activity in higher margin Drilling & Measurements and Well Testing technologies, coupled with pricing gains in the Arabian GeoMarket and performance-related incentives on the Bokor integrated production management project. Pretax operating margins reached a new record level of 33% during the quarter.
 
Page 11 of 16
Demonstrating Schlumberger leadership in the field of rotary steerable technology, PowerDrive Xbow*, the new 3
 1
/
4
" fully rotational system, was deployed on a sidetrack for Saudi Aramco. Running for 140 circulating hours, the system drilled a record-breaking 3
 7
/
8
" hole to a total length of 1,765 ft, while achieving the client's directional objectives. The operation marked the smallest hole successfully drilled with a rotary steerable system. PowerDrive Xbow is designed for through-tubing rotary drilling and coil-tubing drilling applications.
Elsewhere in Saudi Arabia, the South Rub Al-Khali Company Limited (SRAK), a Shell/Total/Saudi Aramco gas Joint Venture, awarded Schlumberger an integrated well construction services contract to provide Drilling & Measurements, Well Services technologies, and IPM services in the Rub Al-Khali basin. The work scope comprises three remote gas exploration wells with an option for four additional wells.
In Australia, Woodside awarded Schlumberger a multi-well, multilateral Drilling & Measurements contract for the deepwater Vincent project off the Northwestern Shelf. In the first phase of the contract seven 9
 5
/
8
" RapidX* multilateral systems will be installed. Phase two will consist of an additional 7 to 14 systems. Phase three is undergoing feasibility reviews.
PetroChina awarded Schlumberger a Drilling & Measurements Master Services Contract. Advanced Schlumberger well placement and performance drilling technologies will be deployed in wells across the Tarim, Jidong, Liaohe, Xinjiang, Sichuan, and other oilfields.
In India, Reliance Industries used the Rt Scanner* triaxial induction tool to markedly improve the accuracy of the hydrocarbon estimation in low-resistivity pay zones in the Krishna Godavari basin. Demonstrating its leading edge over conventional technology for the estimation of net pay, Rt Scanner also confirmed the presence of thin reservoir beds that were later seen on core images, and calculated dip and azimuth that correlated well with image logs.
 
 
 
 
Page 12 of 16
 
 
 
Page 13 of 16
Second-quarter revenue of $562 million was 6% higher sequentially and 47% higher compared to the same period last year. Pretax operating income of $180 million improved 13% sequentially and 211% year-on-year.
Sequentially, Marine revenue increased to record levels with the vessel fleet utilization at 89%. Q* vessel utilization remained substantially flat at 91%. WesternGeco commissioned its sixth Q-Marine* vessel during the quarter with the upgrade of the to address increased industry demand for Q-Marine technology. The vessel has a backlog of contracts through May 2007. Land acquisition revenue increased with new crews added in the North Africa and the Middle East regions, coupled with improved efficiencies in operations in the South America region. Data Processing revenue increased with higher activity in both Asia and India linked to the recently opened Mumbai data processing and reservoir services center. Seasonal declines in Multiclient revenue, although less than expected due to a late surge in sales in the US, partially offset sequential gains in Marine, Land, and Data Processing.
Western Monarch
Pretax operating margins improved sequentially by 200 bps to reach 32%. This was primarily driven by Marine due to higher utilization and improved pricing, coupled with Land activity increases in the South America, North Africa, and the Middle East regions, together with high-margin Q-data processing. These improvements were partially offset by the seasonal decline in Multiclient.
During the quarter, Schlumberger acquired Copenhagen-based degaard A/S, the leader of advanced surface seismic data inversion software. The company, which will become part of WesternGeco, specializes in applications of seismic data to determine rock parameters critical to better reservoir characterization and improved oil and gas recovery. The integration of surface seismic data with key Schlumberger petrophysical and electromagnetic measurement technologies will lead to reduced reservoir uncertainty, particularly in the smaller and more complex reservoir targets of the future.
Revenue backlog is at an all-time high of $1.2 billion, an increase of 35% over the previous quarter reflecting strong and sustained Marine, Land, Multiclient, and Data Processing market positions.
 
 
 
 
Page 14 of 16
 
 
Page 15 of 16
About Schlumberger
Schlumberger is the world's leading oilfield services company supplying technology, information solutions, and integrated project management that optimize reservoir performance for customers working in the oil and gas industry. The company employs more than 66,000 people of over 140 nationalities working in more than 80 countries. Schlumberger supplies a wide range of products and services from seismic acquisition and processing; formation evaluation; well testing and directional drilling to well cementing and stimulation; artificial lift and well completions; and consulting, software, and information management. In 2005, Schlumberger operating revenue was $14.31 billion. For more information, visit .
www.SLB.com
 
Notes:
Schlumberger will hold a conference call to discuss the above announcement on Friday, July 21, 2006, at 9:00am New York City time (2:00pm London time/3:00pm Paris time). To access the call, which is open to the public, please contact the conference call operator at +1-800-230-1074 (toll free) for North America, or +1-612-234-9960 outside of North America, approximately 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. Ask for the "Schlumberger Earnings Conference Call." A replay will be available through August 4, 2006, by dialing +1-800-475-6701 in North America, or +1-320-365-3844 outside of North America, and providing the access code 831645.
The conference call will be webcast simultaneously at on a listen-only basis. Please log in 15 minutes ahead of time to test your browser and register for the call. A replay of the webcast will also be available through August 4, 2006 at the above web site.
www.SLB.com/irwebcast
Supplemental information in the form of a question and answer document on this press release and financial schedules are available at .
www.SLB.com/ir
For more information, please contact:
Jean-Francois Poupeau, Vice President of Communications and Investor Relations
or
Debashis Gupta, Investor Relations Manager
+1-212-350-9432
investor-relations@slb.com
 
Page 16 of 16

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
Oilfield Services pretax return on sales in the second quarter of 2006 was 27.2% versus 25.6% in the previous quarter.
 
The Oilfield Services capex is expected to approach $2.1 billion for the full year 2006, an increase of 51% over 2005.
 
 
WesternGeco capitalized $38 million of multiclient surveys in the second quarter.
 
Multiclient sales, including transfer fees, were $147 million in the quarter.
 
The 2006 WesternGeco capex is expected to reach $341 million, excluding $173 million of significantly pre-funded multiclient surveys, versus $205 million and $60 million respectively in 2005.
 
 
Schlumberger pretax return on sales from continuing operations, before charges and credits, for the second quarter of 2006 was 25.3% compared to 24.1% in the first quarter of 2006.
Schlumberger after-tax, before minority interest, return on sales from continuing operations, before charges and credits, for the second quarter of 2006 was 19.4% compared to 18.1% in the first quarter of 2006.
Stock-based compensation expense for the second quarter of 2006 (including the impact of the adoption of SFAS 123R) was $28 million ($0.02 per share) versus $26 million in the first quarter of 2006.
Stock-based compensation expense in 2006 is currently estimated to be approximately $112 million ($0.09 per share) compared to $40 million in 2005. This increase reflects the full impact of the adoption of both SFAS 123 and SFAS 123R, as well as an increase in the fair value of stock-based awards due to the increase in Schlumberger stock price.
 
Net debt was $3.17 billion as of June 30, 2006, an increase of $2.37 billion in the quarter reflecting the $2.4 billion acquisition of Baker Hughes' 30% share in WesternGeco.
( is gross debt less cash, short term investments as well as fixed income investments held to maturity.)
Net debt
 
Interest and Other Income for the second quarter of 2006 consisted of the following:
 
 
Interest income of $29 million decreased $6.2 million sequentially but increased $5.7 million compared to the same quarter last year. Average return of 4.8% increased 0.8% sequentially and 1.5% year-on-year. Average investment balance of $2.5 billion decreased $1.1 billion sequentially and $425 million compared to the same quarter last year.
Interest expense of $61 million increased $13.6 million sequentially and $11.0 million from the same quarter last year. Average borrowing rates of 4.7% increased by 0.3% sequentially and by 0.2% over last year. Average debt balance of $5.3 billion increased $906 million sequentially and $776 million compared to the same quarter last year.
 
The difference of $3.9 million in the quarter came from Oilfield Services headquarters projects and costs together with Oilfield Services consolidation eliminations.
 
The $85 million pretax difference during the quarter included items such as corporate expenses, amortization of certain identifiable intangibles, interest on post-retirement benefits and stock-based compensation costs.
 
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by first adding back to net income the interest expense on the convertible bonds and then dividing this adjusted net income by the sum of unvested restricted stock units and weighted average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution, the calculation of which includes the shares from the conversion of convertible bonds and assumes that all stock options which are in the money are exercised at the beginning of the period and that the proceeds are used by Schlumberger to purchase shares at the average market price for the period.
If adding the interest expense on the convertible bonds back to net income and including the shares from the assumed conversion of the convertible bonds has an anti-dilutive effect on the diluted EPS calculation, then the effects of the convertible bonds are excluded from the calculation.
The shares from the potential conversion of the convertible bonds amount to 38 million and the interest expense on the convertible bonds was $7.2 million in the second quarter.
 
Annualized ROCE reached 34.3% in the second quarter of 2006 versus 34.1% in the first quarter of 2006 and 24.5% in the second quarter of 2005.
The acquisition of 30% minority interest of Baker Hughes in WesternGeco has resulted in a reduction of ROCE by 3.1%.
 
 is computed as [Net Income from continuing operations excluding charges and credits + Minority Interest + Interest Expense - Interest Income - Tax benefit on interest expense] divided by the quarterly average of [Shareholders' Equity + Net Debt + Minority Interest].
ROCE
 
The effective tax rate from continuing operations before charges and credits in the second quarter was 23.4% compared to 25.1% in the prior quarter. This sequential decline is primarily attributable to the country mix of profitability combined with the impact of positive developments in various tax issues in certain geographies in the second quarter. For the full year 2006, Schlumberger expects the ETR, before charges and credits, to be in the mid-twenties range.
 
In addition to financial results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), this document also includes non-GAAP financial measures (as defined under SEC Regulation G). The following is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP measures:
 
 
This document, the second quarter 2006 earnings release and other statements we make contain forward looking statements, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our expectations regarding business outlook; growth for Schlumberger as a whole and for each of Oilfield Services and WesternGeco (and for specified products within each segment); oil and natural gas demand and production growth; operating margins; operating and capital expenditures by Schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the business strategies of Schlumberger customers; the adoption of SFAS 123R and stock-based compensation expense; the effects of the WesternGeco transaction; the Schlumberger stock buy-back program; and future results of operations. These statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the global economy; changes in exploration and production spending by Schlumberger customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; general economic and business conditions in key regions of the world; political and economic uncertainty and socio-political unrest; and other factors detailed in our second quarter 2006 earnings release, our most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those forecasted or expected. Schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 

Exhibit 99.3
On April 28, 2006 Schlumberger acquired the 30% minority interest in WesternGeco from Baker Hughes Inc. for $2.4 billion in cash. Schlumberger also incurred direct acquisition costs of $6 million in connection with this transaction. As a result of this transaction, Schlumberger owns 100% of WesternGeco. Approximately 50% of the purchase price was funded from Schlumberger cash and investments. The remaining 50% was financed through existing Schlumberger credit facilities.
The purchase price has been allocated to the proportionate share of net assets acquired based upon their estimated fair values. In doing so the following items were considered:
Technology, Customer Relationships, and Other Identifiable Intangible Assets
Approximately $495 million of the purchase price was allocated to technology (primarily representing WesternGeco proprietary Q technology), customer relationships, and other identifiable intangible assets. Amortization expense in the second quarter of 2006 relating to these items was approximately $5 million and is expected to be approximately $8 million per quarter commencing in the third quarter of 2006.
Vessels and Other Fixed Assets
Approximately $94 million of the purchase price was recorded as a fair value adjustment to increase the carrying value of WesternGeco vessels and other fixed assets. In analyzing the fair value of the vessels it was determined that the remaining estimated useful lives of these assets exceeded the remaining estimated life currently being used to calculate depreciation expense. Therefore, the estimated remaining useful lives of the vessels were extended an additional 4 years (on a weighted average basis) as of the date of the acquisition. The impact of the fair value adjustments for all fixed assets, combined with the change in estimate regarding the depreciable lives of the vessels, resulted in a net reduction of approximately $0.5 million in depreciation expense in the second quarter of 2006. These adjustments are currently estimated to result in a net reduction in depreciation expense of $0.8 million per quarter commencing in the third quarter of 2006.
Multiclient Seismic Data
The carrying value of the Multiclient library immediately after the acquisition increased to $243 million from $202 million, reflecting the impact of a $41 million fair value adjustment. These capitalized costs will be charged to based on the percentage of the total costs on the balance sheet to the estimated total revenue that Schlumberger expects to receive from the sales of such data. Schlumberger policy has been that, under no circumstance will an individual survey carry a net book value greater than a 4-year straight-line amortized value. After consideration of the estimated number of future years that revenues are expected to be derived from the Multiclient seismic data at the time of the acquisition, Schlumberger concluded that the remaining minimum
"
Cost of goods sold and services"
amortization period should be 3 years for all surveys in the Multiclient seismic library at the time of the transaction, effectively resetting the amortization period. Therefore, the $243 million of capitalized Multiclient seismic data costs will be charged to expense over a period no longer than the next 3 years. Surveys comprising the $202 million of Multiclient seismic data costs prior to this transaction had a weighted average remaining life for purposes of computing the minimum amortization of approximately 1.8 years. Given the current emphasis on requiring Multiclient projects to be significantly prefunded before the project commences, Schlumberger currently estimates that the majority of revenues to be derived from sales of new surveys will be achieved within a 4-year period. Therefore, Schlumberger will continue its policy that under no circumstance will an individual survey carry a net book value greater than a 4-year straight-line amortized value for all surveys added to the library after this transaction.
The net impact of the $41 million fair value adjustment combined with the resetting of the minimum amortization period resulted in an approximately $9 million net reduction in Multiclient amortization expense in the second quarter of 2006 as compared to what Multiclient amortization expense would have been had this transaction not been consummated. These adjustments are currently estimated to result in a net reduction in Multiclient amortization expense of approximately $10 million and $9 million in the third and fourth quarters of 2006, respectively.
Goodwill
The total amount of goodwill recorded as a result of this transaction is approximately $1.3 billion.
Impact of Transaction on Schlumberger Second-Quarter Results
 
As illustrated in the table above, excluding the impact of one-time charges relating to this transaction of $21 million for in-process research and development and the $9 million for liquidating certain investments in connection with the financing of this transaction, this acquisition was accretive to Schlumberger net income in Q2 (even before the impact of the changes in estimates regarding the vessels and multiclient library). This transaction is expected to remain accretive for the rest of 2006.
 
This document contains forward looking statements, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our expectations regarding amortization expense, depreciation expense, policies regarding the net book value of individual surveys and accretion. These statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those described in our most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those forecasted or expected. Schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 


