FILE:SLB/SLB-8K-20060120061549.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2005 Press Release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto, and the Supplemental Information furnished as Exhibit 99.2 hereto, were posted on the Schlumberger internet web site (www.slb.com/ir) on January 20, 2006.
 
In addition to financial results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) that are included in the attached Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2005 Press Release and Supplemental Information, these documents also include the following non-GAAP financial measures (as defined under the SEC's Regulation G):
 
 
 
 
The foregoing non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, total debt, net income, cash flows or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP as more fully discussed in Schlumberger's financial statements and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
The exhibits listed below are furnished pursuant to Item 9.01 of this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: January 20, 2006

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
January 20, 2006  Schlumberger Limited (NYSE:SLB) reported today 2005 operating revenue of $14.31 billion versus $11.48 billion in 2004.
NEW YORK,
 
Income from continuing operations, before credits and charges, of $2.03 billion was 67% higher than last year, representing diluted earnings per share of $3.34 versus $2.03 in 2004.
 
Income from continuing operations, including credits and charges, was $3.62 per share-diluted in 2005 versus $1.70 in 2004. Net income was $2.21 billion in 2005, representing diluted earnings per share of $3.64 versus $2.04 in 2004, an increase of 78%.
 
Fourth-Quarter Results
 
Fourth-quarter operating revenue of $4.02 billion was 9% above the prior quarter and 31% higher than the fourth quarter of 2004.
 
Income from continuing operations, before credits and charges, was $640 million, or $1.05 per share-diluted, an increase of 82% year-on-year and 22% over the third quarter of 2005.
 
Income from continuing operations, including credits and charges, was $1.08 per share-diluted versus $0.89 in the previous quarter and $0.59 in the fourth quarter of last year. Net income was $661 million, or $1.08 per share-diluted, double the $330 million in the same quarter of last year.
 
Oilfield Services revenue of $3.57 billion increased 9% sequentially and 30% compared to the same quarter of last year. Pretax business segment operating income of $852 million increased 18% sequentially and 76% year-on-year.
 
WesternGeco revenue of $464 million increased 6% sequentially and 39% year-on-year. Pretax business segment operating income of $110 million increased 29% sequentially and 156% year-on-year.
 
Schlumberger Chairman and CEO Andrew Gould commented, "The very strong activity that we have seen in the fourth quarter resulted in new record levels of oilfield revenue and net income for Schlumberger. At Oilfield Services, sequential growth in the Eastern Hemisphere was greater than the growth in the United States for the second quarter running, confirming increased activity, improved equipment utilization and stronger prices in those markets.
 
Schlumberger Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2005 Results, page 2
 
WesternGeco also continued to deliver excellent results. Demand for seismic acquisition as well as multiclient data indicate a strong renewed interest in exploration. The continued acceptance of Q technology resulted in impressive growth, which is expected to continue in 2006.
 
Looking ahead, several trends will define activity in 2006. First, rig count increases will be largely limited to onshore work as the global offshore rig market will remain constrained until new builds are mobilized beyond 2006. Second, shortages of people and equipment across the industry are likely to result in cost inflation and project delays, placing a high premium on reliable suppliers of both technology and skilled personnel. Third, the technology that can improve the productivity of the limited base of skilled personnel will be in high demand. This is clearly demonstrated both by the success of the Petrel seismic-to-simulation software tools and by growing acceptance of the remote monitoring of job execution to achieve superior performance from technology. Fourth, exploration activity, where Schlumberger has an unmatched portfolio of services, will show a large increase in 2006, and this will continue for a number of years. Overall, we expect our top line growth in 2006 to be similar to that experienced in 2005.
 
The industry has already recognized the need for an unprecedented effort to increase secure hydrocarbon supply. Plans are being put in place to achieve this, but it will take several years of sustained activity to develop the new production that can reliably replace today's supply, much of which was developed during the up-cycle of the 1970s and 1980s. In addition, this new supply will generally come from smaller reservoirs and more hostile environments where Schlumberger is uniquely placed to meet the challenge."
 
Other Events:
 
 
Schlumberger Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2005 Results, page 3
 
 
(Stated in thousands except per share amounts)
 
Schlumberger Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2005 Results, page 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schlumberger Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2005 Results, page 5
 
 
(Stated in thousands)
 
Schlumberger Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2005 Results, page 6
 
 
Net debt represents gross debt less cash, short-term investments and fixed income investments, held to maturity. Management believes that "net debt" provides useful information regarding the level of Schlumberger indebtedness. Details of the net debt follow:
 
(Stated in millions)
 
 
(Stated in millions)
 
Schlumberger Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2005 Results, page 7
 
In addition to financial results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) this Fourth-Quarter Earnings Press Release also includes non-GAAP financial measures (as defined under the SEC's Regulation G). The following is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP measures:
 
Schlumberger Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2005 Results, page 8
 
 
 
Pretax operating income represents the segments' income before taxes and minority interest. The pretax operating income excludes corporate expenses, interest income, interest expense, amortization of certain intangible assets, interest on post-retirement benefits, stock-based compensation costs and the charges and credits described on page 4, as these items are not allocated to the segments.
Schlumberger Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2005 Results, page 9
 
 
Full-year 2005 revenue of $12.65 billion increased 24% versus 2004. Europe/CIS/Africa and Latin America each increased revenue by 27%, Middle East & Asia by 22%, and North America by 21%. Pretax operating income of $2.81 billion in 2005 was 56% higher than 2004. Operating margins improved 460 basis points (bps) in 2005 versus 2004, demonstrating high demand for oilfield services with strong pricing and accelerating technology delivery.
 
Fourth-quarter revenue of $3.57 billion increased 9% sequentially and 30% year-on-year.
 
Sequential revenue increases were recorded in all four Areas, led by Middle East & Asia and North America with double-digit increases. All Technologies contributed to the growth with significant contributions from Wireline and Well Services.
 
Pretax operating income of $852 million increased 18% sequentially and 76% year-on-year. All Areas except Latin America recorded sequential double-digit growth. Operating margins improved 180 bps sequentially to reach 23.9% in the quarter.
 
During the quarter, Schlumberger launched the Scanner Family* of wireline logging services, a revolutionary suite of downhole rock and fluid characterization measurements. Scanner technology enables customers to evaluate formations more confidently and assess reserves more accurately. With better understanding, operators can reduce risk and optimize the productive life of their fields. The first three members of the Scanner Family are the Rt Scanner* multiarray triaxial induction tool; the Sonic Scanner* acoustic scanning tool; and the MR Scanner* new-generation nuclear magnetic resonance tool.
 
North America
 
Revenue of $1.04 billion increased 10% sequentially and 23% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $278 million increased 27% sequentially and 77% year-on-year.
 
The Gulf Coast GeoMarket recorded strong sequential revenue growth with activity improving significantly after the hurricane season in the prior quarter. Canada also contributed to the growth with strong demand in Western Canada, coupled with significant pricing improvement throughout. Wireline and Well Services recorded the strongest advances across the Area.
 
The steep growth in sequential operating income was driven by stronger land activity in Well Services and Wireline, robust pricing in Canada, and improved utilization of resources in the Gulf of Mexico. This improvement was offset by $8 million, the residual effect of the third-quarter hurricane season.
 
In the Gulf of Mexico, BHP Billiton deployed the Quicksilver Probe* on the MDT* Modular Formation Dynamics Tester fluid-sampling tool to successfully acquire clean oil samplesgreatly reducing a major source of uncertainty in the reservoir model. The customer utilized the new technique in various sampling programs throughout their reservoir, resulting in significantly reduced acquisition times.
 
In Alaska, working for ConocoPhillips on the Western North Slope, Schlumberger used PeriScope 15* technology to successfully steer a 6,800 ft horizontal lateral well in a thin, 8-ft thick reservoir. Imaging
Schlumberger Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2005 Results, page 10
 
the reservoir boundaries in real time up to 15 ft away from the tool, the deep-reading electromagnetic service enabled the client to keep an exceptional 93% of the well in the most productive part of the reservoir. As a result of this success, the customer has planned to drill several subsequent wells using this technology.
 
Latin America
 
Revenue of $617 million increased 8% sequentially and 26% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $90 million declined 1% sequentially but increased 71% year-on-year.
 
The sequential revenue growth was mainly attributable to higher levels of third-party managed services on integrated projects in Mexico. The Latin America South GeoMarket contributed to the growth with increased Integrated Project Management (IPM) activity, as did the Peru/Colombia/Ecuador GeoMarket with the start of several new Drilling & Measurements contracts.
 
During the quarter, the PRISA barges operating for PDVSA in Western Venezuela exceeded an average of 90% utilization. Discussions regarding the settlement of certain outstanding receivables for the PRISA contract were ongoing at year-end.
 
The slight sequential operating income decline, despite the revenue increase, was due largely to an unfavorable revenue mix in the Area resulting from the higher level of low-margin third-party managed services in Mexico, fewer Petrel* software sales in Venezuela, and reduced profitability in Latin America South.
 
In Trinidad and Tobago, PETROTRIN-Trinmar awarded contracts valued at $25 million for Well Services and Drilling & Measurements services. The contracts include pumping, directional drilling, measurements-while-drilling (MWD), and logging-while-drilling (LWD) technology services.
 
In Mexico, PEMEX awarded contracts valued at $44 million for work in their South and Marine regions. The service agreements include work from Wireline, Well Completions & Productivity, Well Services, Data & Consulting Services, and Schlumberger Information Solutions Technologies.
 
Europe/CIS/Africa
 
Revenue of $1.01 billion increased 7% sequentially and 45% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $226 million increased 12% sequentially and 111% year-on-year.
 
Sequential revenue growth was due to strong activity in North Africa and Russia; strong deepwater completion sales combined with the rapid market acceptance of Drilling & Measurements Scope* technology in West Africa; the start of a drilling campaign in Azerbaijan; and price increases on completion products in the Caspian. High levels of activity were maintained in the North Sea despite the seasonal winter impact.
 
The improved sequential operating income was principally due to higher efficiency in Russia, growing international oil company presence in North Africa, and accelerated technology deployment in West Africa, together with stronger pricing across the Area.
Schlumberger Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2005 Results, page 11
 
In the quarter several key technologies were used across the Area. In the North Sea, Hydro used the new advanced wireline Sonic Scanner acoustic scanning tool to provide good quality data in a very slow formation where no other technology could have achieved results. Hydro is using Sonic Scanner to improve geomechanical understanding in many difficult-to-drill formations.
 
In Algeria, Sonatrach awarded Schlumberger a multi-year, $125 million contract for wireline, drill-stem testing, and data-processing services. The award was based on availability of differentiating technology and improved operational efficiency through optimized deployment of resources.
 
In Norway, Schlumberger successfully completed the industry's first fully remote drilling optimization and well-placement operation for Statoil's sgard field in the North Sea. Working onsite at the client's Stjrdal facility, and from the Schlumberger Operations Support Center in Aberdeen, a joint team of Data & Consulting Services and Drilling & Measurements engineers provided key geomechanical and well-placement support.
 
Working in the Sakhalin region of Russia for Exxon Neftegas Limitedas operator under the Sakhalin 1 Production Sharing AgreementSchlumberger set a world record for logging in an extended-reach drilling well when a combined MaxTRAC* well tractor and FloScan Imager* production logging system was conveyed down 9,772 m including tractoring more than 7,800 m. High-quality flow-regime images from the FloScan Imager verified the completion effectiveness.
 
Middle East & Asia
 
Revenue of $860 million was 11% higher sequentially and 29% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $264 million increased 17% sequentially and 45% year-on-year.
 
The strong improvement in sequential revenue was led by the Middle East GeoMarkets, which all contributed significantly to the record revenue level. Growth in the East Africa & East Mediterranean GeoMarket was due to expanded market for Drilling & Measurements and the start of a new Wireline campaign. Revenue improvement in the Gulf GeoMarket was mainly attributable to Wireline and Well Completions & Productivity services. Continued rig and activity increases in Saudi Arabia resulted in significant growth for Well Services, Drilling & Measurements and Wireline technologies. In Asia, the Brunei/Malaysia/Philippines GeoMarket contributed to the increase through higher activity and improved pricing in Well Services.
 
The robust growth in sequential operating income was due mainly to increased activity and pricing improvements across all Middle East GeoMarkets and across all Technologies. Improved results of the Bokor integrated project in the Brunei/Malaysia/Philippines GeoMarket also contributed to this growth. Area pretax operating margins showed continued improvement during the quarter, reaching 30.7%an overall increase of 150 bps.
 
In the Middle East, the Arabian, the Gulf and East Africa & East Mediterranean GeoMarkets recorded full-year revenue increases of more than 30%and operating income growth of more than 40%in 2005 versus 2004. Similar growth rates in Asia were achieved in the Brunei/Malaysia/Philippines, Thailand/Vietnam and Australasian GeoMarkets.
Schlumberger Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2005 Results, page 12
 
In Kuwait, Schlumberger successfully drilled the first ever geosteered multilateral well for Kuwait Oil Company when conventional technology proved ineffective in the region's geologically complex reservoirs. Using a unique bottom hole assembly that combined the PowerDrive Xceed* rotary steerable system with GVR* resistivity, PeriScope 15* well placement, PowerPulse*, and proVISION* reservoir steering services, three lateral wells were placed in the most productive part of the reservoir.
 
In Malaysia, Murphy Oil Corporation and Schlumberger developed a local solution to conduct borehole seismic surveys in deepwater exploration areas where gas clouds render conventional surveys ambiguous.
 
In Japan, the Wireline CHDT* Cased Hole Dynamics Tester tool, part of the ABC* Analysis Behind Casing technology suite, was run in a fiberglass-cased well drilled as part of the client's experimental carbon dioxide sequestration project. Formation-pressure measurements and multiple fluid samples were taken, and the fiberglass casing plugged successfully.
 
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schlumberger Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2005 Results, page 13
 
well placement, better drilling performance and enabled a thorough evaluation of the reservoir. PeriScope was used to maintain the borehole within the reservoir sands throughout the entire 1,600-m interval, resulting in the best producing well in the field.
Schlumberger Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2005 Results, page 14
 
 
Operating revenue for 2005 was $1.66 billion versus $1.24 billion in 2004. Pretax operating income in 2005 was $317 million versus $124 million in 2004. This strong performance was mainly attributable to the continued market acceptance of Q* technology, a higher level of Multiclient sales and improved operating leverage in Marine acquisition.
 
Fourth-quarter revenue of $464 million was 6% higher sequentially and grew 39% compared to the same period of last year.
 
Sequentially, revenue from Multiclient sales grew significantly, primarily in North America due to a larger number of blocks in the Gulf of Mexico coming up for renewal and the pending first quarter lease sale. Multiclient sales also increased in West Africa, the Caspian and Asiaindicating a worldwide interest in exploration.
 
Marine revenue declined in the North Sea, Canada and Russia as a result of the winter season in the Northern Hemisphere affecting activity. This resulted in a number of vessels transiting to other areas, with transit revenues deferred and recognized over the term of the contract. The seasonal decline was partly offset by strong activity in Asia with three conventional vessels and three Q-vessels operating in the region at improved pricing and utilization levels. As a result of the transits, vessel utilization decreased slightly to 88% from 92% in the previous quarter.
 
Data Processing was consistent with higher acquisition activity. Land acquisition activity was flat from the previous quarter.
 
Revenue backlog reached an all-time high of $790 million versus $656 million at the end of the previous quarter, reflecting increasing exploration and production budgets in 2006.
 
Pretax operating income of $110 million improved 29% sequentially and grew by $67 million year-on-year. The strong sequential growth resulted from higher Multiclient sales and transfer fees. This improvement was partly offset by higher transit days.
 
Q technology revenues reached $399 million in 2005, more than doubling the $162 million achieved in 2004. A growth rate higher than 80% is expected in 2006.
 
Highlights
 
 
Schlumberger Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2005 Results, page 15
 
Schlumberger Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2005 Results, page 16
 
About Schlumberger
 
Schlumberger is the world's leading oilfield services company supplying technology, project management, and information solutions that optimize performance for customers working in the oil and gas industry. The company employs more than 60,000 people of over 140 nationalities working in more than 80 countries, and comprises two business segments. Schlumberger supplies a wide range of products and services from formation evaluation through directional drilling, well cementing and stimulation, well completions and productivity to consulting, software, information management, and IT infrastructure services that support core industry operational processes. WesternGeco, jointly owned with Baker Hughes, is the world's largest seismic company and provides advanced acquisition and data processing services. In 2005, Schlumberger operating revenue was $14.31 billion. For more information, visit .
SLB.com
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
For more information, please contact:
 
Doug Pferdehirt, Vice President of Communications and Investor Relations
or
Paulo Loureiro, Investor Relations Manager
 
+1-212-350-9432
investor-relations@slb.com

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
Oilfield Services pretax return on sales in the fourth quarter of 2005 was 23.9% versus 22.1% in the previous quarter. For the full year 2005, Oilfield Services pretax return on sales was 22.2% versus 17.6% in 2004.
 
 
The Oilfield Services capex is expected to approach $2.0 billion for the full year 2006, an increase of 44% over 2005.
 
 
 
WesternGeco capitalized $23 million of multiclient surveys in the fourth quarter and $60 million in the full year 2005.
 
 
Multiclient sales, including transfer fees, were $164 million in the quarter. The corresponding cost of sales was $47 million for the quarter. In the quarter, 58% of the revenue was from surveys that had no NBV.
 
 
Multiclient sales for the full year 2005 were $509 million, of which 7.7% were previously impaired. The corresponding cost of sales was $184 million.
 
 
The 2006 WesternGeco capex is expected to reach $315 million, excluding $150 million of significantly pre-funded multiclient surveys, versus $205 million and $60 million respectively in 2005.
 
 
Deferred transit revenue refers to that portion of mobilization fees that are held over in the balance sheet as of year-end that will be recognized over the timeframe of the data acquisition horizon for contracts in progress at year-end. Transit costs are also deferred on the same basis.
 
 
The EPS impact of the hurricane season in the fourth quarter of 2005 was $0.01 per share.
 
 
Schlumberger pretax return on sales from continuing operations, before charges and credits, for the fourth quarter was 21.9% compared to 19.5% in the third quarter.
 
Schlumberger after-tax before minority interest return on sales from continuing operations, before charges and credits, for the fourth quarter was 16.7% compared to 14.8% in the third quarter.
 
 
Schlumberger has two stock compensation programs  stock option awards and an employee stock purchase plan. Schlumberger started to record stock-based compensation expense in the income statement beginning in the second half of 2003, adopting the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123 on a prospective basis for grants after January 1, 2003.
 
The effect on the fourth quarter 2005 net income was $11 million ($0.02 per share).
 
The effect on the full year 2005 net income was $40 million ($0.07 per share).
 
 
Stock-based compensation expense in 2006 is estimated to be $110 million compared to $40 million in 2005. The increase is principally due to:
 
(i) The adoption of SFAS 123R, with effect from January 1, 2006, which requires companies to expense the unamortized portion of stock options granted prior to 2003 when the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS123 were adopted.
 
(ii) 2006 will be the first year that the full 4-year impact of the adoption of SFAS 123 by Schlumberger, in January 2003, will be reflected in Schlumberger's results.
 
(iii) Valuations for 2006 stock-based compensation is expected to increase due to the recent upward movement in Schlumberger's stock price.
 
 
After the quarterly dividend payment of $124 million, net debt was $532 million as of December 31, 2005, a decrease of $504 million in the quarter. This was mainly due to liquidity generated by operations and proceeds from the sale of Hanover
Compressor Company stock and from stock option exercises, partially offset by the stock buy back of $204 million and the paydown of the US securitization program of $160 million.
 
 
Interest and Other Income for the fourth quarter of 2005 consisted of the following:
 
 
 
The fourth quarter ETR from continuing operations, before charges and credits, was 23.5%, slightly below the third quarter rate primarily due to the resolution of tax audits in various Countries during the quarter.
 
For the total year 2006, Schlumberger expects the ETR, before charges and credits, to be in the mid-twenties range.
 
 
Interest income of $30 million increased $3.3 million sequentially and $14.3 million compared to the same quarter last year. Average return of 3.6% increased 0.2% sequentially and 1.2% year-on-year. Average investment balance of $3.3 billion increased $180 million sequentially and $720 million compared to the same quarter last year.
 
Interest expense of $49 million decreased $1.2 million sequentially and increased $4.7 million from the same quarter last year. Average borrowing rates of 4.5% were also flat sequentially and increased from 3.9% last year. Average debt balance of $4.4 billion decreased $66 million sequentially and $115 million compared to the same quarter last year.
 
 
The difference of $6 million in the quarter came from Oilfield Services headquarters projects and costs together with Oilfield Services consolidation eliminations.
 
The $63 million pretax difference during the quarter included items such as corporate expenses, amortization of certain identifiable intangibles, interest on post-retirement benefits and stock-based compensation costs.
 
 
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by first adding back to net income the interest expense on the convertible bonds and then dividing this adjusted net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution, the calculation of which includes the shares from the conversion of convertible bonds and assumes that all stock options which are in the money are exercised at the beginning of the period and that the proceeds are used by Schlumberger to purchase shares at the average market price for the period.
 
If adding the interest expense on the convertible bonds back to net income and including the shares from the assumed conversion of the convertible bonds has an anti-dilutive effect on the diluted EPS calculation, then the effects of the convertible bonds are excluded from the calculation.
 
The shares from the potential conversion of the convertible bonds amount to 19 million and the interest expense on the convertible bonds was $7.2 million in the fourth quarter.
 
 
Annualized ROCE reached 31.9% in the fourth quarter of 2005 versus 26.3% in the third quarter of 2005 and 19.6% in the fourth quarter of 2004.
 
In addition to financial results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) this document also includes non-GAAP financial measures (as defined under the SEC's Regulation G). The following is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP measures:
 
 
 
 
This document, the fourth quarter and full year 2005 earnings release and other statements we make contain forward looking statements, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our expectations regarding business outlook; growth for Schlumberger as a whole and for each of Oilfield Services and WesternGeco (and for specified products within each segment); oil and natural gas demand and production growth; operating margins; operating and capital expenditures by Schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the business strategies of Schlumberger's customers; stock-based compensation; effective tax rates; and future results of operations. These statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the global economy; changes in exploration and production spending by Schlumberger's customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; general economic and business conditions in key regions of the world; political and economic uncertainty and socio-political unrest; and other factors detailed in our fourth quarter and full year 2005 earnings release, our most recent Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those forecasted or expected. Schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


