FILE:SLB/SLB-8K-20070122165539.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 18, 2007, Jean-Marc Perraud, age 59, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Schlumberger Limited ("Schlumberger"), indicated that he will retire from this position effective March 1, 2007. Mr. Perraud, who joined Schlumberger in 1974, will remain with Schlumberger as Senior Financial Advisor to the Chairman under a phased retirement plan.
Also on January 18, 2007, Schlumberger's Board of Directors appointed Simon Ayat, age 52, as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective as of March 1, 2007. Mr. Ayat has been with Schlumberger for 24 years, most recently as Vice President Treasurer of Schlumberger since February 2005. From December 2002 to February 2005, Mr. Ayat served as Vice President, Controller and Business Processes of Schlumberger. From April 2001 to December 2002, he served as Vice President Finance of SchlumbergerSema. Beginning March 1, 2007, Mr. Ayat's annual base salary will be $600,000. In connection with his promotion, Mr. Ayat was granted options to acquire 100,000 shares of Schlumberger common stock at an exercise price of $58.455 per share.
In connection with Mr. Perraud's retirement, Schlumberger and Mr. Perraud have entered into an employment agreement (the "Agreement") to be effective as of March 1, 2007. Under the terms of the Agreement, Mr. Perraud will be employed until November 30, 2010, with an initial term (the "Initial Term") commencing on March 1, 2007 and continuing until November 30, 2007 and a secondary term (the "Secondary Term") commencing on December 1, 2007 and continuing until November 30, 2010.
Under the Agreement, Mr. Perraud will receive compensation and benefits consisting of (1) a base salary of $50,000 per month during the Initial Term and $37,500 per month during the Secondary Term; (2) continued participation in Schlumberger's health, welfare and insurance plans on a basis comparable to that of other U.S. employees; (3) continued accrual of benefits under Schlumberger's qualified pension plans and qualified profit-sharing plans based on an annual salary of $600,000 and on any incentive payments made to him in January 2008; (4) a prorated payment (based on 11 months of service) in Schlumberger's performance incentive program; and (5) cash in an amount equal to accrued and unused vacation as of February 28, 2007.
During the Initial Term and the Secondary Term, Mr. Perraud will generally continue to vest in stock options previously granted to him under Schlumberger's stock option plans. If Mr. Perraud is terminated other than for cause or upon his employment with an unauthorized competitor, he will generally have the lesser of five years or the amount of time left on the option term to exercise any previously granted and vested stock options.
The Agreement contains certain provisions that would apply in the event of termination of Mr. Perraud's employment. The Agreement also contains confidentiality, return of property and noncompetition covenants.
A copy of the Agreement has been included as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 22, 2007

Exhibit 10.1
THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is effective as of the 1st of March, 2007, by and between , a Netherlands Antilles corporation (the "Company"), and Jean-Marc Perraud, an individual currently residing in Houston, TX ("Executive").
SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED
1. : In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, including Executive's agreement to sign a release of claims as provided in Section 13, the Company and Executive wish to establish an Employment Agreement retaining Executive's services as described herein, establishing certain incentive, tenure and performance criteria related to such employment and otherwise fixing Executive's benefits, base salary and incentive compensation.
Employment of Executive
2. : During the Term, as defined below, Executive shall be employed as Senior Financial Advisor reporting to Andrew Gould, Chairman & CEO. The term hereof shall commence March 1st, 2007 (the "Effective Date") and shall continue until the close of business on November 30th, 2010 (the "Term"). The initial term as referenced herein shall commence on the Effective Date and shall continue until November 30
Term and Extent of Services
th
, 2007 (the "Initial Term"). The Secondary Term shall commence December 1
st
, 2007 and shall continue until November 30
th
, 2010 (the "Secondary Term"). During the Initial Term, Executive agrees to devote up to 100% of his time to the business of the Company,as requested, and to perform to the best of his ability and with reasonable diligence the duties and responsibilities assigned to him by the appropriate management of the Company. During the Secondary Term, Executive agrees to devote up to 50% of his time to the business of the Company, as requested, and to perform to the best of his ability and with reasonable diligence the duties and responsibilities assigned to him by the appropriate management of the Company. At the expiration of the Term, Executive agrees to voluntarily terminate his employment with the Company and all affiliates.
Nothing herein shall prohibit Executive, during the Term, from being engaged as a consultant to organizations and businesses, except those described as Unauthorized Competitors in Section 5, provided that Executive's work as a consultant does not affect his ability to perform the duties and responsibilities assigned to him under this Agreement.
3. :
Compensation and Benefits
 
 
 
During the Initial Term, Executive will participate on a prorated basis for the 11 months of January through November 2007 in the Company's Performance Incentive Program at a range level of 100% of base pay. During the Secondary Term, Executive shall not participate in the Company's Performance Incentive Plan.
 
 
 
4. : Should Executive's employment terminate prior to the end of the Term, the following provisions of this Section 4 shall govern the rights of Executive under this Agreement:
Termination of Employment
 
 
 
 
 
"Cause" means Executive's dishonesty, conviction of a felony, willful unauthorized disclosure of confidential information of the Company, or willful refusal to perform the duties of Executive's position or positions with the Company.
 
In the event Executive voluntarily terminates his employment during the Term, and (I) does not become employed by an Unauthorized Competitor or (II) becomes employed by another Oil & Gas related Company with Andrew Gould's consent (which consent will not be unreasonably withheld), he shall be entitled to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this Agreement, an Unauthorized Competitor means those companies as defined in Section 5, involved in the oilfield services and equipment business.
5. :
Confidentiality, Return of Property, and Covenant Not to Compete
(a) . The Company agrees that at the time of execution of this Agreement, or shortly thereafter during the Term of this Agreement, the Company will provide Executive with Confidential Information as necessary to perform his duties hereunder. Executive agrees that in return for this and other consideration provided under this Agreement he will not disclose or make available to any other person or entity, or use for his own personal gain, any Confidential Information, except for such disclosures as required in the performance of his duties hereunder. For purposes of this Agreement, "Confidential Information" shall mean any and all information, data and knowledge that have been created, discovered, developed or otherwise become known to the Company or any of its affiliates or ventures or in which property rights have been assigned or otherwise conveyed to the Company or any of its affiliates or ventures, which information, data or knowledge has commercial value in the business in which the Company is engaged, except such information, data or knowledge as is or becomes known to the public without violation of the terms of this Agreement. By way of illustration, but not limitation Confidential Information includes trade secrets, processes, formulas, know-how, improvements, discoveries, developments, designs, inventions, techniques, marketing plans, manual, records of research, reports, memoranda, computer software, strategies, forecasts, new products, unpublished financial statements or parts thereof, budgets or other financial information, projections, licenses, prices, costs, and employee, customer and supplier lists or parts thereof.
Confidentiality
(b) . Executive agrees that at the time of leaving the Company's employ, he will deliver to the Company (and will not keep in his possession, recreate or deliver to anyone else) all Confidential Information, as well as all other devices, records, data, notes, reports, proposals, lists, correspondence, specifications, drawings, blueprints, sketches, materials, equipment, customer or client lists or information, or any other documents or property (including all reproductions of the aforementioned items) belonging to the Company or any of its affiliates or ventures, regardless of whether such items were prepared by Executive.
Return of Property
(c) Executive acknowledges that the skills, processes and information developed at the Company are highly proprietary and global in nature and could be utilized directly and to the Company's detriment (or the detriment of any of the Company's affiliates or ventures) by several other businesses. Executive also acknowledges that the nature of his duties and responsibilities under the Agreement will bring him into close contact with much of the Company's Confidential Information, and the Company has affirmatively agreed to provide him with Confidential Information. Accordingly, for the consideration provided to Executive in this Agreement, Executive agrees to be bound by the following restrictive covenants:
Covenant Not to Compete.
 
 
(d) : Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, for purposes of determining whether Executive has terminated employment hereunder, "employment" means employment as an employee with the Company or any Affiliate. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Affiliate" means (i) Schlumberger Limited, a Netherlands Antilles corporation, (ii) any corporation in which the shares owned or controlled directly or indirectly by Schlumberger Limited shall represent 40% or more of the voting power of the issued and outstanding stock of such corporation, and (iii) any other company controlled by, controlling or under common control with the Company within the meaning of Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Employment by Affiliates
6. : The Company and Executive shall each be responsible for its/his own costs and expenses, including, without limitation, court costs and attorney's fees, incurred as a result of any claim, action or proceeding arising out of, or challenging the validity or enforceability of, this Agreement or any provisions hereof.
Expenses
7. : For purposes of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered or when mailed by United States registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
Notices
 
or to such other address as either party may furnish to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notices of changes of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
8. : The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this Agreement will be governed exclusively by and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Texas, without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws of such state.
Applicable Law
9. : If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable, then the invalidity or unenforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, and all other provisions shall remain in full force and effect.
Severability
10. : The Company may withhold from any benefits payable under this Agreement all federal, state, city or other taxes as may be required pursuant to any law or governmental regulation or ruling.
Withholding of Taxes
11. ; Successors: Executive's right to receive payments or benefits hereunder shall not be assignable or transferable, whether by pledge, creation, or a security interest or otherwise, whether voluntary, involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, other than a transfer by will or by the laws of descent or distribution, and in the event of any attempted assignment or transfer contrary to this Section 11, the Company shall have no liability to pay any amount so attempted to be assigned or transferred. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by Executive's personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributes, devises and legatees.
No Assignment
This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns (including, without limitation, any company into or with which the Company may merge or consolidate).
12. : This Agreement contains the entire understanding between the parties hereto and supersedes any prior employment agreement or severance agreement between the Company or any predecessor of the Company and Executive, except that this Agreement shall not affect or operate to reduce any benefit or compensation enuring to Executive of a kind elsewhere provided and not expressly provided or modified in this Agreement.
Effect of Prior Agreements
13. : In consideration for the compensation and other benefits provided pursuant to this Agreement, Executive agrees to execute a "Waiver and Release," a form of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A. Executive acknowledges that he was given copies of this Agreement and the Waiver and Release on December , 2006, and was given at least 21 days to consider whether to sign the Agreement and the Waiver and Release. The Company's obligations under this Agreement are expressly conditioned on the execution of the Waiver and Release contemporaneously with the execution of this Agreement, and Executive's failure to execute and deliver such Waiver and Release, or Executive's revocation of the Waiver and Release within the seven day period provided in the Release, will void the Company's obligations hereunder.
Release of Claims
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed and delivered the 18th day of January, 2007, but effective as of the day and year first above written.
 


