FILE:SLB/SLB-8K-20100405144717.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 5, 2010, Schlumberger Limited issued a press release announcing its receipt of a second request for information from the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice in connection with its proposed merger with Smith International, Inc.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Additional Information
STOCKHOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND REGISTRATION STATEMENT REGARDING THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE BECAUSE IT WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION. These documents will contain important information about the proposed transaction that should be read carefully before any decision is made with respect to the proposed transaction. These materials will be made available to the shareholders of Smith at no expense to them. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain the documents (when available) free of charge at the SEC's web site, www.sec.gov. In addition, such materials (and all other documents filed with the SEC) will be available free of charge at www.smith.com or www.slb.com. Such documents are not currently available. You may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Smith or Schlumberger with the SEC at the SEC public reference room at 100 F Street N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at (800) 732-0330 or visit the SEC's website for further information on its public reference room.
Each company's directors and executive officers and other persons may be deemed, under SEC rules, to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction. Information regarding Schlumberger's directors and officers can be found in its proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 4, 2010 and information regarding Smith's directors and officers can be found in its proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 13, 2009. Additional information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests in the transaction, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
The attached press release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The opinions, forecasts, projections, or other statements other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. The Company can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct. These statements are subject to, among other things, satisfaction of the closing conditions to the merger, the risk that the contemplated merger does not occur, negative effects from the pendency of the merger, the ability to successfully integrate the merged businesses and to realize expected synergies and other risk factors that are discussed in Schlumberger's and Smith's most recent 10-Ks as well as each company's other filings with the SEC available at the SEC's Internet site (http://www.sec.gov). Actual results may differ materially from those expected, estimated or projected.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of them in light of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 5, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
April 5, 2010  Schlumberger Limited (NYSE: SLB) announced today that it has received a request for additional information, commonly known as a "second request", from the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice in connection with the proposed merger with Smith International, Inc. While a definitive date cannot yet be determined related to the eventual closing of the transaction, Schlumberger maintains the expectation of this occurring during the second half of this year.
HOUSTON,
About Schlumberger
Schlumberger is the world's leading supplier of technology, integrated project management and information solutions to customers working in the oil and gas industry worldwide. Employing approximately 77,000 people representing over 140 nationalities and working in approximately 80 countries, Schlumberger provides the industry's widest range of products and services from exploration through production.
Schlumberger Limited has principal offices in Paris, Houston and The Hague and reported revenues of $22.70 billion in 2009. For more information, visit www.slb.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This material includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The opinions, forecasts, projections, or other statements other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. The Company can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct. These statements are subject to, among other things, satisfaction of the closing conditions to the merger, the risk that the contemplated merger does not occur, negative effects from the pendency of the merger, the ability to successfully integrate the merged businesses and to realize expected synergies and other risk factors that are discussed in Schlumberger's and Smith's most recent 10-Ks as well as each company's other filings with the SEC available at the SEC's Internet site (http://www.sec.gov). Actual results may differ materially from those expected, estimated or projected.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of them in light of new information, future events or otherwise.
Additional Information
STOCKHOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND REGISTRATION STATEMENT REGARDING THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE BECAUSE IT WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION. These documents will contain important information about the proposed transaction that should be read carefully before any decision is made with respect to the proposed transaction. These materials will be made available to the shareholders of Smith at no expense to them. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain the documents (when available) free of charge at the SEC's web site, www.sec.gov. In addition, such materials (and all other documents filed with the SEC) will be available free of charge at www.smith.com or www.slb.com. Such documents are not currently available. You may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Smith or Schlumberger with the SEC at the SEC public reference room at 100 F Street N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at (800) 732-0330 or visit the SEC's website for further information on its public reference room.
 
Schlumberger Receives U.S. Antitrust Second Request, page 2
 
Each company's directors and executive officers and other persons may be deemed, under SEC rules, to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction. Information regarding Schlumberger's directors and officers can be found in its proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 4, 2010 and information regarding Smith's directors and officers can be found in its proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 13, 2009. Additional information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests in the transaction, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
For more information, contact
Investors
Malcolm Theobald  Schlumberger Limited, Vice President of Investor Relations
Office +1 (713) 375-3535
investor-relations@slb.com
Media
Stephen Whittaker  Schlumberger Limited, Director of Corporate Communications
Office + 33 1 4062 1330
swhittaker@slb.com


