FILE:SLB/SLB-8K-20101209151913.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     Schlumberger Limited ("Schlumberger or the "Company") currently reports its results on the basis of two business segments, Oilfield Services and WesternGeco, and by geographical areas within Oilfield Services. As a result of the recent acquisitions of Smith International, Inc. ("Smith") and Geoservices, Schlumberger previously announced that Schlumberger will change its primary reporting to product group segments (the "Groups"), effective with the first quarter of 2011. The Company will also continue to report its results on a geographical basis.
     The Groups are as follows:
     The Groups will collectively be referred to as "Oilfield Services." Additionally, Schlumberger will also report the distribution business acquired in the Smith transaction as a separate segment.
     The above changes will be reflected in the consolidated financial statements and segment reporting beginning in fiscal year 2011, starting with the Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2011. To provide an additional perspective on these changes, Schlumberger has prepared and furnishes as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K unaudited pro forma historical consolidated financial information ("Pro Forma Information") on the basis of the new reporting structure, giving effect to the acquisitions of Smith and Geoservices as if they had occurred on January 1, 2008.
     The Pro Forma Information is based on the historical consolidated statements of income of Schlumberger, Smith and Geoservices. The Pro Forma Information has been adjusted to reflect pro forma events that are directly attributable to the transactions and factually supportable. As such, the Pro Forma Information does not reflect any cost savings, operating synergies or revenue enhancements that the combined companies may achieve as a result of the transactions, the costs to integrate the operations of Schlumberger, Smith and Geoservices, or the costs necessary to achieve these cost savings, operating synergies and revenue enhancements.
     The Pro Forma Information has been presented for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of what the combined companies' results of operations would have been had the transactions actually been completed as of January 1, 2008. In addition, the Pro Forma Information does not purport to project the future operating results of the combined companies.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits
     The exhibit listed below is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01 of this Form 8-K.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 9, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
 
Schlumberger Limited ("Schlumberger" or the "Company") currently reports its results on the basis of two business segments, Oilfield Services and WesternGeco, and by geographical areas within Oilfield Services. As a result of the recent acquisitions of Smith International, Inc. ("Smith") and Geoservices, Schlumberger has reached a point where its coverage of the various activities comprising exploration and production services is so broad that the Company will be changing the primary way in which it allocates resources and assesses performance. Consequently, as previously announced and effective with the first quarter of 2011, Schlumberger will change its primary reporting to product group segments (the "Groups"). Schlumberger believes that this change will give investors a better perspective on the different parts of its business. The Company will also continue to report its results on a geographical basis.
The Groups are as follows:
The Groups will collectively be referred to as "Oilfield Services." Additionally, Schlumberger will also report the distribution business acquired in the Smith transaction, as a separate segment.
The above changes will be reflected in the consolidated financial statements and segment reporting beginning in fiscal year 2011, starting with the Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2011. To provide additional perspective on these changes, Schlumberger has prepared the accompanying unaudited pro forma historical consolidated financial information ("Pro Forma Information") on the basis of the new reporting structure, giving effect to the acquisitions of Smith and Geoservices as if they had occurred on January 1, 2008.
The Pro Forma Information is based on the historical consolidated statements of income of Schlumberger, Smith and Geoservices. The Pro Forma Information has been adjusted to reflect pro forma events that are directly attributable to the transactions and factually supportable. As such, the Pro Forma Information does not reflect any cost savings, operating synergies or revenue enhancements that the combined companies may achieve as a result of the transactions, the costs to integrate the operations of Schlumberger, Smith and Geoservices, or the costs necessary to achieve these cost savings, operating synergies and revenue enhancements.
The Pro Forma Information has been presented for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of what the combined company's results of operations would have been had the transactions actually been completed as of January 1, 2008. In addition, the Pro Forma Information does not purport to project the future operating results of the combined companies.
 
 
 
 
(Stated in millions, except per share amounts)
 
(Stated in millions, except per share amounts)
 
(Stated in millions, except per share amounts)
 


