FILE:SLB/SLB-8K-20100409155035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e)
Schlumberger 2010 Stock Incentive Plan
The stockholders of Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger N.V.), a Netherlands Antilles corporation ("Schlumberger"), approved the adoption of the Schlumberger 2010 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2010 Stock Plan") at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of Schlumberger Limited (the "Annual Meeting") held on April 7, 2010. The 2010 Stock Plan provides for the grant to Schlumberger employees of, among other things, stock options, stock appreciation rights (SARs), restricted stock and restricted stock units covering up to 30,000,000 shares of common stock. No more than 3,000,000 shares may be the subject of awards that are not options or SARs. The 2010 Stock Plan was approved by Schlumberger's Board of Directors on January 21, 2010, subject to stockholder approval, and is effective as of that date. The foregoing description of the 2010 Stock Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the 2010 Stock Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Amendment to Schlumberger Discounted Stock Purchase Plan
The stockholders of Schlumberger also approved at the Annual Meeting an amendment (the "DSPP Amendment") to the Schlumberger Discounted Stock Purchase Plan (the "DSPP"). The DSPP Amendment increases the number of shares of common stock available for purchase under the DSPP by 10,000,000 shares. The DSPP Amendment was approved by Schlumberger's Board of Directors on January 21, 2010, subject to stockholder approval, and is effective as of January 1, 2010. The foregoing description of the DSPP Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the amended and restated DSPP, which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
At the Annual Meeting, all director nominees were elected (Item 1), and the stockholders of Schlumberger also approved:
 
 
 
 
The proposals are described in detail in Schlumberger's definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting, which was filed with the SEC on March 4, 2010 (the "Definitive Proxy Statement").
The results are as follows:
Item 1Election of Directors
All director nominees were elected at the Annual Meeting.
 
Item 2Financial Statements and Dividends
The proposal to approve Schlumberger's Consolidated Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2009, its Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2009, and the declarations of dividends by the Board of Directors in 2009 as reflected in Schlumberger's 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders, as described in the proxy materials, was approved with approximately 98.7% of the votes cast at the Annual Meeting voting for the proposal and approximately 0.5% of the votes cast voting against the proposal.
 
Item 32010 Stock Incentive Plan
The proposal to approve the adoption of the 2010 Stock Plan, as described in Schlumberger's Definitive Proxy Statement, was approved with approximately 95.4% of the votes cast at the Annual Meeting voting for the proposal and approximately 4.3% of the votes cast voting against the proposal.
 
Item 4Amendment to DSPP
The proposal to approve the adoption of an amendment to the DSPP, as described in Schlumberger's Definitive Proxy Statement, was approved at the Annual Meeting with approximately 99.0% of the votes cast voting for the proposal and approximately 0.7% of the votes cast voting against the proposal.
 
Item 5Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
The proposal to approve the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm to audit the accounts of Schlumberger for 2010, as described in the proxy materials, was approved with approximately 99.6% of the votes cast at the Annual Meeting voting for the proposal and approximately 0.2% of the votes cast voting against the proposal.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 9, 2010
 

Exhibit 10.1
1. .  This 2010 Schlumberger Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan (this "Plan") was adopted by Schlumberger Limited (the "Company") in order to retain employees with a high degree of training, experience and ability, to attract new employees whose services are considered particularly valuable, to encourage the sense of proprietorship of such persons and to promote the active interest of such persons in the development and financial success of the Company and its Subsidiaries. These objectives are to be accomplished by making Awards under this Plan and thereby providing Participants with a proprietary interest in the growth and performance of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
Objectives
2. .  As used herein, the terms set forth below shall have the following respective meanings:
Definitions
"Award" means the grant of any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Stock Award, Cash Award or Performance Award, whether granted singly, in combination or in tandem, to a Participant pursuant to such applicable terms, conditions and limitations as the Committee may establish in accordance with the objectives of this Plan.
"Award Agreement" means the document (in written or electronic form) communicating the terms, conditions and limitations applicable of an Award. The Committee may, in its discretion, require that the Participant execute such Award Agreement, or may provide for procedures through which Award Agreements are made available but not executed. Any Participant who is granted an Award and who does not affirmatively reject the applicable Award Agreement shall be deemed to have accepted the terms of Award as embodied in the Award Agreement.
"Board" means the board of directors of the Company.
"Cash Award" means an Award denominated in cash.
"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
"Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board, and any successor committee thereto or such other committee of the Board as may be designated by the Board to administer this Plan in whole or in part including any subcommittee of the Board as designated by the Board.
"Common Stock" means the Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company.
"Dividend Equivalents" means, with respect to shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, with respect to which shares are to be issued at the end of the Restriction Period, an amount equal to all dividends and other distributions (or the economic equivalent thereof) that are payable to shareholders of record during the Restriction Period on a like number of shares of Common Stock.
"Employee" means an employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and an individual who has agreed to become an employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and actually becomes such an employee within the following six months.
"Executive Officer" means a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m)(3) or any other executive officer designated by the Committee for purposes of exempting compensation payable under this Plan from the deduction limitations of Section 162(m).
"Fair Market Value" means, with respect to a share of Common Stock on a particular date, the mean between the highest and lowest composite sales price per share of the Common Stock, as reported on the consolidated transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange for that date, or, if there shall have been no such reported prices for that date, the reported mean price on the last preceding date on which a composite sale or sales were effected on one or more of the exchanges on which the shares of Common Stock were traded shall be the Fair Market Value.
 
"Incentive Option" means an Option that is intended to comply with the requirements set forth in Section 422 of the Code.
"Non-Qualified Option" means an Option that is not intended to comply with the requirements set forth in Section 422 of the Code.
"Option" means a right to purchase a specified number of shares of Common Stock at a specified price.
"Participant" means an Employee to whom an Award has been made under this Plan.
"Performance Award" means an award made pursuant to this Plan to a Participant, which Award is subject to the attainment of one or more Performance Goals.
"Performance Goal" means a standard established by the Committee, to determine in whole or in part whether a Performance Award shall be earned.
"Restricted Stock" means any Common Stock that is restricted or subject to forfeiture provisions.
"Restricted Stock Unit" means a unit evidencing the right to receive one share of Common Stock or equivalent value (as determined by the Committee) that is restricted or subject to forfeiture provisions.
"Restriction Period" means a period of time beginning as of the date upon which an Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units is made pursuant to this Plan and ending as of the date upon which the Common Stock subject to such Award is issued (if not previously issued) no longer restricted or subject to forfeiture provisions.
"Section 162(m)" means Section 162(m) of the Code and any Treasury Regulations and guidance promulgated thereunder.
"Section 409A" means Section 409A of the Code and any Treasury Regulations and guidance promulgated thereunder.
"Stock Appreciation Right" or "SAR" means a right to receive a payment, in cash or Common Stock, equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value or other specified valuation of a specified number of shares of Common Stock on the date the right is exercised over a specified strike price, in each case, as determined by the Committee.
"Stock Award" means an award in the form of shares of Common Stock or units denominated in shares of Common Stock.
"Subsidiary" means (i) in the case of a corporation, a "subsidiary corporation" of the Company as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code and (ii) in the case of a partnership or other business entity not organized as a corporation, any such business entity of which the Company directly or indirectly owns 50% or more of the voting, capital or profits interests (whether in the form of partnership interests, membership interests or otherwise).
3. .  All Employees of the Company or a Subsidiary are eligible for Awards under this Plan in the sole discretion of the Committee. No director of the Company who is not also an employee is eligible to participate in the Plan, nor is any employee who owns directly or indirectly stock possessing more than five percent (5%) of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of stock of the Company or any Subsidiary.
Eligibility
4. .  Subject to the provisions of paragraph 13 hereof, there shall be available for Awards under this Plan granted wholly or partly in Common Stock (including rights or options that may be exercised for or settled in Common Stock) an aggregate of 30 million shares of Common Stock. No more than 3 million shares of Common Stock may be the subject of Awards that are not Options or Stock Appreciation Rights. In the sole discretion of the Committee, 30 million shares of Common Stock may be granted as Incentive Options.
Common Stock Available for Awards
 
(a) In connection with the granting of an Option or other Award, the number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under this Plan shall be reduced by the number of shares of Common Stock in respect of which the Option or Award is granted or denominated. For example, upon the grant of stock-settled SARs, the number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under this Plan shall be reduced by the full number of SARs granted, and the number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under this Plan shall not thereafter be increased upon the exercise of the SARs and settlement in shares of Common Stock, even if the actual number of shares of Common Stock delivered in settlement of the SARs is less than the full number of SARs exercised. However, Awards that by their terms do not permit settlement in shares of Common Stock shall not reduce the number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under this Plan.
(b) Any shares of Common Stock that are tendered by a Participant or withheld as full or partial payment of withholding or other taxes or as payment for the exercise or conversion price of an Award under this Plan shall not be added back to the number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under this Plan.
(c) Whenever any outstanding Option or other Award (or portion thereof) expires, is cancelled or forfeited or is otherwise terminated for any reason without having been exercised or payment having been made in the form of shares of Common Stock, the number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under this Plan shall be increased by the number of shares of Common Stock allocable to the expired, forfeited, cancelled or otherwise terminated Option or other Award (or portion thereof). To the extent that any Award is forfeited, or any Option or SAR terminates, expires or lapses without being exercised, the shares of Common Stock subject to such Awards will not be counted as shares delivered under this Plan.
(d) Shares of Common Stock delivered under the Plan in settlement of an Award issued or made (i) upon the assumption, substitution, conversion or replacement of outstanding awards under a plan or arrangement of an acquired entity or (ii) as a post-transaction grant under such a plan or arrangement of an acquired entity shall not reduce or be counted against the maximum number of shares of Common Stock available for delivery under the Plan, to the extent that the exemption for transactions in connection with mergers and acquisitions from the shareholder approval requirements of the New York Stock Exchange for equity compensation plans applies.
(e) Awards valued by reference to Common Stock that may be settled in equivalent cash value will count as shares of Common Stock delivered to the same extent as if the Award were settled in shares of Common Stock.
Consistent with the requirements specified above in this paragraph 4, the Committee may from time to time adopt and observe such procedures concerning the counting of shares against this Plan maximum as it may deem appropriate, including rules more restrictive than those set forth above to the extent necessary to satisfy the requirements of any national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or any applicable regulatory requirement. The Committee and the appropriate officers of the Company shall be authorized to, from time to time, take all such actions as any of them may determine are necessary or appropriate to file any documents with governmental authorities, stock exchanges and transaction reporting systems as may be required to ensure that shares of Common Stock are available for issuance pursuant to Awards.
5. .
Administration
(a) .  This Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which shall have the powers vested in it by the terms of this Plan, such powers to include the authority (within the limitations described in this Plan):
Authority of the Committee
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in this Plan or in any Award in the manner and to the extent the Committee deems necessary or desirable to further Plan purposes. Any decision of the Committee in the interpretation and administration of this Plan shall lie within its sole discretion and shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties concerned. All decisions and selections made by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be made by a majority of its members unless subject to the Committee's delegation of authority pursuant to paragraph 6 herein.
(b) .  No member of the Committee or officer of the Company to whom the Committee has delegated authority in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6 of this Plan shall be liable for anything done or omitted to be done by him or her, by any member of the Committee or by any officer of the Company in connection with the performance of any duties under this Plan, except for his or her own willful misconduct or as expressly provided by statute.
Limitation of Liability
(c) .  No Option or SAR may be repriced, replaced, regranted through cancellation or modified without shareholder approval (except in connection with a change in the Company's capitalization), if the effect would be to reduce the exercise price for the shares underlying such Option or SAR.
Prohibition on Repricing of Awards
6. .  Except with respect to matters related to Awards to Executive Officers or other Awards intended to qualify as qualified performance-based compensation under Section 162(m), the Committee may delegate to the Chief Executive Officer and to other senior officers of the Company or to such other committee of the Board its duties under this Plan pursuant to such conditions or limitations as the Committee may establish.
Delegation of Authority
7. .
Awards
(a) The Committee shall determine the type or types of Awards to be made under this Plan and shall designate from time to time the Participants who are to be the recipients of such Awards. Each Award shall be embodied in an Award Agreement, which shall contain such terms, conditions and limitations as shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. Awards may consist of those listed in this paragraph 7(a) and may be granted singly, in combination or in tandem. Awards may also be made in combination or in tandem with, in replacement of, or as alternatives to, grants or rights under this Plan or any other plan of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, including the plan of any acquired entity; provided that, except as contemplated in paragraph 13 hereof, no Option may be issued in exchange for the cancellation of an Option with a higher exercise price nor may the exercise price of any Option be reduced. No Option may include provisions that "reload" the option upon exercise or that extend the term of an Option beyond what is the maximum period is specified in the Plan and/or Award Agreement. All or part of an Award may be subject to conditions established by the Committee, which may include, but are not limited to, continuous service with the Company and its Subsidiaries, achievement of specific Performance Goals. Upon the termination of employment by a Participant, any unexercised, deferred, unvested or unpaid Awards shall be treated as set forth in the applicable Award Agreement. Subject to the provisions below applicable to each type of Award, the terms, conditions and limitations applicable to any Awards shall be determined by the Committee.
 
(i) .  An Award may be in the form of an Option. An Option awarded pursuant to this Plan may consist of an Incentive Option or a Non-Qualified Option and will be designated accordingly at the time of grant. The price at which shares of Common Stock may be purchased upon the exercise of an Option shall be not less than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of grant. The term of an Option shall not exceed ten years from the date of grant.
Option
(ii) .  An Award may be in the form of a Stock Appreciation Right. The strike price for a Stock Appreciation Right shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date on which the Stock Appreciation Right is granted. The term of a Stock Appreciation Right shall not exceed ten years from the date of grant.
Stock Appreciation Right
(iii) .  An Award may be in the form of a Stock Award. Any Stock Award which is not a Performance Award shall have a minimum Restriction Period of three years from the date of grant, provided that (i) the Committee may provide for earlier vesting following a change of control or other specified events involving the Company or upon an Employee's termination of employment by reason of death, disability or retirement, and (ii) vesting of a Stock Award may occur incrementally over the three-year minimum Restricted Period; provided, that up to 1.5 million shares of Common Stock shall be available for issuance as Stock Awards having a time-based Restriction Period of up to three years but not less than one year.
Stock Award
(iv) .  An Award may be in the form of a Cash Award.
Cash Awards
(v) .  Without limiting the type or number of Awards that may be made under the other provisions of this Plan, an Award may be in the form of a Performance Award. Any Stock Award which is a Performance Award shall have a minimum Restriction Period of one year from the date of grant, provided that the Committee may provide for earlier vesting following a change of control or other specified events involving the Company, or upon a termination of employment by reason of death, disability or retirement, or termination of service subject to the limitations specified below. The Committee shall set Performance Goals in its sole discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the value and/or amount of Performance Awards that will be paid out to the Participant and/or the portion of an Award that may be exercised.
Performance Award
(A) .  Performance Awards granted to Employees that are not intended to qualify as qualified performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) shall be based on achievement of such Performance Goals and be subject to such terms, conditions and restrictions as the Committee or its delegate shall determine.
Non-Qualified Performance Awards
(B) .  Performance Awards that are intended to qualify as qualified performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) shall be paid, vested or otherwise deliverable solely on account of the attainment of one or more pre-established, objective Performance Goals established and administered by the Committee in accordance with Section 162(m) prior to the earlier to occur of (x) 90 days after the commencement of the period of service to which the Performance Goal relates and (y) the lapse of 25% of the period of service (as scheduled in good faith at the time the goal is established), and in any event while the outcome is substantially uncertain. A Performance Goal is objective if a third party having knowledge of the relevant facts could determine whether the goal is met. Such a Performance Goal may be based on one or more business criteria that apply to a Participant, one or more business units, divisions or sectors of the Company, or the Company as a whole, and if so desired by the Committee, by comparison with a peer group of companies. A Performance Goal may include one or more of the following and need not be the same for each Participant.
Qualified Performance Awards
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unless otherwise stated, such a Performance Goal need not be based upon an increase or positive result under a particular business criterion and could include, for example, maintaining the status quo, performance relative to a peer group determined by the Committee or limiting economic losses (measured, in each case, by reference to specific business criteria). In interpreting Plan provisions applicable to Performance Goals and qualified Performance Awards, it is the intent of this Plan to conform with Section 162(m), including, without limitation, Treasury Regulation 1.162-27(e)(2)(i), as to grants pursuant to this subsection and the Committee in establishing such goals and interpreting the Plan shall be guided by such provisions. Prior to the payment of any compensation based on the achievement of Performance Goals applicable to qualified Performance Awards, the Committee must certify in writing that applicable Performance Goals and any of the material terms thereof were, in fact, satisfied. Subject to the foregoing provisions, the terms, conditions and limitations applicable to any qualified Performance Awards made pursuant to this Plan shall be determined by the Committee to the extent permitted by Section 162(m).
(b) The Committee shall adjust the Performance Goals (either up or down) and the level of the Performance Award that a Participant may earn under this Plan, but only to the extent permitted pursuant to Section 162(m), if it determines that the occurrence of external changes or other unanticipated business conditions have materially affected the fairness of the goals and have unduly influenced the Company's ability to meet them, including without limitation, events such as material acquisitions, changes in the capital structure of the Company, and extraordinary accounting changes. In addition, Performance Goals and Performance Awards shall be calculated without regard to any changes in accounting standards that may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board after such Performance Goals are established.
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Plan, no Participant may be granted, during any one-year period, Awards collectively consisting of (i) Options or Stock Appreciation Rights that are exercisable for or (ii) Stock Awards covering or relating to more than 1,000,000 shares of Common Stock (the limitation referred to as the "Stock-based Awards Limitations"). No Plan Participant who is an employee may be granted Awards consisting of cash (including Cash Awards that are granted as Performance Awards) in respect of any calendar year having a value determined on the Grant Date in excess of $20,000,000.
8. .
Award Payment; Dividends; Substitution; Fractional Shares
(a) .  Payment of Awards may be made in the form of cash or Common Stock, or a combination thereof, and may include such restrictions as the Committee shall determine, including, in the case of Common Stock, restrictions on transfer and forfeiture provisions. If payment of an Award is made in the form of Restricted Stock, the applicable Award Agreement relating to such shares shall specify whether they are to be issued at the beginning or end of the Restriction Period. In the event that shares of Restricted Stock are to be issued at the beginning of the Restriction Period, the certificates evidencing such shares (to the extent that such shares are so evidenced) shall contain appropriate legends and restrictions that describe the terms and conditions of the restrictions applicable thereto. In the event that shares of Restricted Stock are to be issued at the end of the Restricted Period, the right to receive such shares shall be evidenced by book entry registration or in such other manner as the Committee may determine.
General
 
(b) .  Rights to dividends or Dividend Equivalents may be extended to and made part of any Stock Awards, subject to such terms, conditions and restrictions as the Committee may establish. The Committee may also establish rules and procedures for the crediting of interest on deferred cash payments and Dividend Equivalents for Stock Awards.
Dividends and Interest
(c) .  No fractional shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to any Award under this Plan. The Committee shall determine whether cash, Awards or other property shall be issued or paid in lieu of fractional shares, or whether fractional shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated.
Fractional Shares
9. .  The price at which shares of Common Stock may be purchased under an Option shall be paid in full at the time of exercise in cash or, if elected by the Participant, the Participant may purchase such shares by means of tendering Common Stock valued at Fair Market Value on the date of exercise, or any combination thereof. The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine acceptable methods for Participants to tender Common Stock or other Awards. In accordance with the rules and procedures established by the Committee for this purpose and subject to applicable law, Options may also be exercised through "cashless exercise" procedures approved by the Committee involving a broker or dealer approved by the Committee.
Stock Option Exercise
10. .  The Company shall have the right to deduct applicable taxes from any Award payment and withhold, at the time of delivery or vesting of cash or shares of Common Stock under this Plan, an appropriate amount of cash or number of shares of Common Stock or a combination thereof for payment of taxes required by law or to take such other action as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy all obligations for withholding of such taxes. The Committee may also permit withholding to be satisfied by the transfer to the Company of shares of Common Stock theretofore owned by the holder of the Award with respect to which withholding is required. If shares of Common Stock are used to satisfy tax withholding, such shares shall be valued based on the Fair Market Value when the tax withholding is required to be made.
Taxes
11. .  The Board or the Committee may amend, modify, suspend or terminate this Plan for the purpose of meeting or addressing any changes in legal requirements or for any other purpose permitted by law, except that (i) no amendment or alteration that would materially adversely affect the rights of any Participant under any Award previously granted to such Participant shall be made without the consent of such Participant and (ii) no amendment or alteration shall be effective prior to its approval by the shareholders of the Company to the extent shareholder approval is otherwise required by applicable legal requirements or the requirements of any exchange on which the Common Stock is listed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment may cause an Option or SAR to be repriced, replaced, regranted through cancellation or modified without shareholder approval (except in connection with a change in the Company's capitalization as provided in paragraph 13), if the effect of such amendment would be to reduce the exercise price for the shares underlying such Option or SAR.
Amendment, Modification, Suspension or Termination
12. .  Unless otherwise determined by the Committee in the Award Agreement, no Award or any other benefit under this Plan shall be assignable or otherwise transferable. Any attempted assignment of an Award or any other benefit under this Plan in violation of this paragraph 12 shall be null and void.
Assignability
13. .
Adjustments
(a) The existence of this Plan and Awards granted hereunder shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Company or its shareholders to make or authorize any or all adjustments, recapitalizations, reorganizations or other changes in the Company's capital structure or its business, or any merger or consolidation of the Company, or any issue of bonds, debentures, preferred or prior preference stocks ahead of or affecting the shares of Common Stock or the rights thereof, or the dissolution or liquidation of the Company, or any sale or transfer of all or any part of its assets or business, or any other corporate act or proceeding, whether of a similar character or otherwise.
(b) Except as hereinafter provided, the issue by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, for cash or property, or for labor or services, either upon direct sale or
 
upon exercise of rights or warrants to subscribe therefor, or upon conversion of shares or obligations of the Company convertible into such shares or other securities, shall not affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to Awards granted hereunder.
(c) The shares of Common Stock with respect to which Awards may be granted hereunder are shares of the Common Stock of the Company as presently constituted, but if, and whenever, prior to the delivery by the Company or a subsidiary of all of the shares of Common Stock which are subject to the Awards or rights granted hereunder, the Company shall effect a subdivision or consolidation of shares or other capital readjustments, the payment of a stock dividend or other increase or reduction of the number of shares of the Common Stock outstanding without receiving compensation therefore in money, services or property, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Plan, as well as the Stock-based Awards Limitations described in paragraph 7(c) hereof, shall be proportionately adjusted and the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which outstanding Awards or other property subject to an outstanding Award granted hereunder shall:
(i) in the event of an increase in the number of outstanding shares, be proportionately increased, and the cash consideration (if any) payable per share of Common Stock shall be proportionately reduced; and
(ii) in the event of a reduction in the number of outstanding shares, be proportionately reduced, and the cash consideration (if any) payable per share of Common Stock shall be proportionately increased.
(d) In the event of a corporate merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, separation, spinoff, reorganization or liquidation, the Board may make such adjustments to Awards or other provisions for the disposition of Awards as it deems equitable, and shall be authorized, in its sole discretion, (i) to provide for the substitution of a new Award or other arrangement (which, if applicable, may be exercisable for such property or stock as the Board determines) for an Award or the assumption of the Award, regardless of whether in a transaction to which Section 424(a) of the Code applies, (ii) to provide, prior to the transaction, for the acceleration of the vesting and exercisability of, or lapse of restrictions with respect to, the Award, or (iii) to cancel any such Awards and to deliver to the Participants cash in an amount that the Board shall determine in its sole discretion is equal to the fair market value of such Awards on the date of such event, which in the case of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights shall be the excess of the Fair Market Value of Common Stock on such date over the exercise price of such Award (for the avoidance of doubt, if the exercise price is less than Fair Market Value the Option or Stock Appreciation Right may be canceled for no consideration).
(e) Notwithstanding the foregoing: (i) any adjustments made pursuant to paragraph 13 to Awards that are considered "deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A shall be made in a manner which is intended to not result in accelerated or additional tax to a Participant pursuant to Section 409A; (ii) any adjustments made pursuant to paragraph 13 to Awards that are not considered "deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A of the Code shall be made in such a manner intended to ensure that after such adjustment, the Awards either (A) continue not to be subject to Section 409A of the Code or (B) do not result in accelerated or additional tax to a Participant pursuant to Section 409A of the Code; and (iii) in any event, neither the Committee nor the Board shall have the authority to make any adjustments pursuant to paragraph 13 to the extent the existence of such authority would cause an Award that is not intended to be subject to Section 409A of the Code at the date of grant to be subject thereto as of the date of grant.
14. .  No Common Stock or other form of payment shall be issued with respect to any Award unless the Company shall be satisfied based on the advice of its counsel that such issuance will be in compliance with including, but not limited to, applicable federal and state securities laws. The Participant shall not exercise or settle any Award granted hereunder, and the Company or any Subsidiary will not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock or make any payments under any such Award if the exercise thereof or if the issuance of such shares of Common Stock or if the payment made shall constitute a violation by the recipient or the Company or any subsidiary of any provision of any applicable law or regulation of any governmental authority or any securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed. Certificates evidencing shares of Common Stock delivered under this Plan (to the extent that such shares are so evidenced) may be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may
Restrictions
 
deem advisable under the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any securities exchange or transaction reporting system upon which the Common Stock is then listed or to which it is admitted for quotation and any applicable federal or state securities law. The Committee may cause a legend or legends to be placed upon such certificates (if any) to make appropriate reference to such restrictions.
15. .  Insofar as it provides for Awards of cash, Common Stock or rights thereto, this Plan shall be unfunded. Although bookkeeping accounts may be established with respect to Participants who are entitled to cash, Common Stock or rights thereto under this Plan, any such accounts shall be used merely as a bookkeeping convenience. The Company shall not be required to segregate any assets that may at any time be represented by cash, Common Stock or rights thereto, nor shall this Plan be construed as providing for such segregation, nor shall the Company, the Board or the Committee be deemed to be a trustee of any cash, Common Stock or rights thereto to be granted under this Plan. Any liability or obligation of the Company to any Participant with respect to an Award of cash, Common Stock or rights thereto under this Plan shall be based solely upon any contractual obligations that may be created by this Plan and any Award Agreement, and no such liability or obligation of the Company shall be deemed to be secured by any pledge or other encumbrance on any property of the Company. Neither the Company nor the Board nor the Committee shall be required to give any security or bond for the performance of any obligation that may be created by this Plan.
Unfunded Plan
16. .  This Plan is intended to provide compensation which is exempt from or which complies with Section 409A, and ambiguous provisions, if any, shall be construed in a manner that is compliant with or exempt from the application of Section 409A, as appropriate. This Plan shall not be amended in a manner that would cause the Plan or any amounts payable under the Plan to fail to comply with the requirements of Section 409A, to the extent applicable, and, further, the provisions of any purported amendment that may reasonably be expected to result in such non-compliance shall be of no force or effect with respect to the Plan. The Company shall neither cause nor permit any payment, benefit or consideration to be substituted for a benefit that is payable under this Plan if such action would result in the failure of any amount that is subject to Section 409A to comply with the applicable requirements of Section 409A. For purposes of Section 409A, each payment under this Plan shall be deemed to be a separate payment.
Section 409A
Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, if the Participant is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A as of the date of the Participant's termination of employment and the Company determines, in good faith, that immediate payment of any amounts or benefits under this Plan would cause a violation of Section 409A, then any amounts or benefits which are payable under this Plan upon the Participant's "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A which (i) are subject to the provisions of Section 409A; (ii) are not otherwise excluded under Section 409A; and (iii) would otherwise be payable during the first six-month period following such separation from service, shall be paid on the first business day next following the earlier of (1) the date that is six months and one day following the date of termination or (2) the date of the Participant's death.
17. .  This Plan and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant hereto, to the extent not otherwise governed by mandatory provisions of the Code or the securities laws of the United States, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas.
Governing Law
18. .  Nothing in this Plan or an Award Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or a Subsidiary to terminate any Participant's employment or other service relationship at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the capacity in which he or she is employed or otherwise serves the Company or any Subsidiary.
No Right to Employment
19. .  All obligations of the Company under this Plan with respect to Awards granted hereunder shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
Successors
20. .  Nothing in this Plan or an Award Agreement shall constitute a representation by the Company to a Participant regarding the tax consequences of any Award received by a Participant under this Plan. Although the Company may endeavor to (i) qualify a Performance Award for favorable U.S. or foreign tax treatment or
Tax Consequences
 
(ii) avoid adverse tax treatment (e.g. under Section 409A), the Company makes no representation to that effect and expressly disavows any covenant to maintain favorable or unavoidable tax treatment. The Company shall be unconstrained in its corporate activities without regard to the potential negative tax impact on holders of Performance Awards under this Plan.
21. .  The Committee may grant awards to persons outside the United States under such terms and conditions as may, in the judgment of the Committee, be necessary or advisable to comply with the laws of the applicable foreign jurisdictions and, to that end, may establish sub-plans, modified vesting, exercise or settlement procedures and other terms and procedures. Notwithstanding the above, the Committee may not take any actions hereunder, and no Awards shall be granted, that would violate the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Code, any securities law, any governing statute, or any other applicable law.
Non-United States Participants
22. .  This Plan is effective January 21, 2010, subject to its approval by the stockholders of the Company at the next annual meeting of stockholders. This Plan shall continue in effect for a term of ten years after the date on which the stockholders of the Company approve this Plan, unless sooner terminated by action of the Board.
Effectiveness
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Plan to be executed by its duly authorized officer on the date first written above.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
The Schlumberger Discounted Stock Purchase Plan (the "Plan") is designed to encourage and assist all employees of Schlumberger Limited, a Netherlands Antilles corporation, and Subsidiaries (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Company"), where permitted by applicable laws and regulations, to acquire an equity interest in Schlumberger Limited through the purchase of shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Schlumberger Limited ("Common Stock"). It is intended that this Plan shall constitute an "employee stock purchase plan" within the meaning of Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
 
The Plan shall be administered by the Stock Purchase Plan Committee (the "Committee") appointed by the Board of Directors of Schlumberger Limited (the "Board"), which Committee shall consist of at least three (3) persons. The Committee shall supervise the administration and enforcement of the Plan according to its terms and provisions and shall have all powers necessary to accomplish these purposes and discharge its duties hereunder including, but not by way of limitation, the power to (i) employ and compensate agents of the Committee for the purpose of administering the accounts of participating employees; (ii) construe or interpret the Plan; (iii) determine all questions of eligibility; and (iv) compute the amount and determine the manner and time of payment of all benefits according to the Plan hereunder.
The Committee may act by unanimous decision of its members at a regular or special meeting of the Committee or by decision reduced to writing and signed by all members of the Committee without holding a formal meeting. Vacancies in the membership of the Committee arising from death, resignation or other inability to serve shall be filled by appointment of the Board.
 
The Common Stock subject to issuance under the terms of the Plan shall be shares of Schlumberger Limited's authorized but unissued shares or previously issued shares reacquired and held by Schlumberger Limited. Except as provided in Section 20 hereof, effective from and after January 21, 2010, the aggregate number of shares which may be issued under the Plan and authorized by this Plan shall not exceed 11,078,183, the sum of (i) the 1,078,183 shares of Common Stock available for issuance under this Plan on January 1, 2010 after the issuance of any such shares attributable to the Purchase Period ending December 31, 2009 and (ii) the 10,000,000 shares of Common Stock authorized as of January 21, 2010. All shares purchased under the Plan, regardless of source, shall be counted against this share limitation.
 
Each "Employee" (as hereinafter defined), except as described in the next following paragraph, shall become eligible to participate in the Plan in accordance with Section 5 on the first "Enrollment Date" (as hereinafter defined) coincident with or next following employment with the Company. Participation in the Plan is voluntary.
The following Employees are not eligible to participate in the Plan:
(i) Employees who would, immediately upon enrollment in the Plan, own directly or indirectly, or hold options or rights to acquire, an aggregate of 5% or more of the total combined voting power or value of all outstanding shares of all classes of the Company or any subsidiary;
 
(ii) Employees who are customarily employed by the Company less than twenty (20) hours per week or less than five (5) months in any calendar year; and
(iii) Employees who are prohibited by the laws and regulations of the nation of their residence or employment from participating in the Plan as determined by the Committee.
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (ii) above, where required by applicable law (as determined by the Committee), Employees employed in the countries specified from time to time by the Committee who are customarily employed by the Company less than twenty (20) hours per week may participate in the Plan where required by law, subject to any restrictions established by the Committee.
"Employee" shall mean any individual employed by Schlumberger Limited or any Subsidiary (as hereinafter defined). "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation in existence as of the "Restatement Date" (as hereinafter defined) of this Plan in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with Schlumberger Limited if, as of the Restatement Date, each of the corporations other than the last corporation in the chain owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in the chain. Any corporation which may become a Subsidiary (as defined herein) after the Restatement Date shall automatically be deemed to be a participating Subsidiary under this Plan effective as of the following Enrollment Date unless the Committee takes action to exclude such corporation and its employees from participation herein.
 
Each eligible Employee of Schlumberger Limited or any Subsidiary as of January 1, 2010 (the "Restatement Date" herein) who is already enrolled in the Plan may enroll in the Plan as of July 1, 2010. Each other eligible Employee of Schlumberger Limited or a participating Subsidiary who thereafter becomes eligible to participate may enroll in the Plan on the first July 1 or January 1 following the date he or she first meets the eligibility requirements of Section 4. Any eligible employee not enrolling in the Plan when first eligible may enroll in the Plan on the first day of July or January of any subsequent calendar year. Any eligible Employee may enroll or re-enroll in the Plan on the dates hereinabove prescribed or such other specific dates established by the Committee from time to time ("Enrollment Dates").
In order to enroll, an eligible Employee must complete, sign and submit the appropriate form to the Personnel Department of the Company.
 
Payment for shares is to be made as of the applicable "Purchase Date" (as defined in Section 9) through payroll deductions (with no right of prepayment) over the Plan's designated purchase period (the "Purchase Period") with the first such deduction commencing with the payroll period ending after the Enrollment Date. Each Purchase Period under the Plan shall be a period of six (6) calendar months beginning on July 1 and ending on December 31 of the same calendar year, and beginning on January 1 and ending on June 30 of the same calendar year, or such other period as the Committee may prescribe. Each participating Employee (hereinafter referred to as a "Participant") will authorize such deductions from his or her pay for each month during the Purchase Period and such amounts will be deducted in conformity with his or her employer's payroll deduction schedule.
Each Participant may elect to make contributions each pay period in amounts not less than one percent (1%) and not more than ten percent (10%), or such other percentages as the Committee may establish from time to time before an Enrollment Date for all purchases to occur during the relevant Purchase Period, of his or her base earnings or salary, geographical coefficient, overtime pay, shift premiums and commissions from the Company (excluding long-term disability or workers compensation payments and similar amounts, but including elective qualified contributions by the Participant to employee benefit plans maintained by the Company) during such pay period. The rate of contribution shall be designated by the Participant in the enrollment form. Bonuses will be included in determining the amount of the Participant's contribution unless the Participant gives written notice to the Personnel Department at the time and in the manner directed by the Committee.
 
A Participant may elect to increase or decrease the rate of contribution effective as of the first day of any calendar month by giving timely written notice to the Personnel Department of the Company on the appropriate form, as determined by the Committee from time to time. A Participant may suspend payroll deductions at any time during the Purchase Period, by giving thirty (30) days' written notice to the Personnel Department on the appropriate form. In such case, the Participant's account will continue to accrue interest and will be used to purchase stock at the end of the Purchase Period. A Participant may also elect to withdraw contributions at any time by giving thirty (30) days' prior written notice to the Personnel Department of the Company on the appropriate form. Any Participant who withdraws his or her contributions will receive his or her entire account balance, including interest and dividends, if any, plus a stock certificate for the number of shares held by the Participant under the Plan as soon as practicable. Any Participant who suspends payroll deductions or withdraws contributions during any Purchase Period cannot resume payroll deductions during such Purchase Period and must re-enroll in the Plan in order to participate in the next Purchase Period.
No more than the maximum contribution permitted any Participant under Section 9 can be accumulated over the Purchase Period, including interest and dividends, if applicable. Except in case of cancellation of election to purchase, death, resignation or other terminating event, the amount in a Participant's account the end of the Purchase Period will be applied to the purchase of the shares.
 
Contributions shall be credited to a Participant's account as soon as administratively feasible after payroll withholding. Unless otherwise prohibited by laws and regulations, Participant contributions will receive interest at a rate realized for the investment vehicle or vehicles designated by the Committee for purposes of the Plan. Interest will be credited to a Participant's account from the first date on which Participant contributions are deposited with the investment vehicle until the earlier of (i) the end of the Purchase Period or (ii) in the event of cancellation, death, resignation or other terminating event, the last day of the month next preceding the date on which such contributions are returned to the Participant. Dividends on shares held in a Participant's account in the Plan will also be credited to such Participant's account. Any such contributions, interest and dividends shall he deposited in or held by a bank or financial institution designated by the Committee for this purpose ("Custodian").
 
Enrollment in the Plan by an Employee on an Enrollment Date will constitute the grant by the Company to the Participant of the right to purchase shares of Common Stock under the Plan. Re-enrollment by a Participant in the Plan (but not merely an increase or decrease in the rate of contributions) will constitute a grant by the Company to the Participant of a new opportunity to purchase shares on the Enrollment Date on which such re-enrollment occurs. A Participant who has not terminated employment and has not withdrawn his or her contributions from the Plan will have shares of Common Stock purchased for him or her on the applicable Purchase Date, and he or she will automatically be re-enrolled in the Plan on the Enrollment Date immediately following the Purchase Date on which such purchase has occurred, unless such participant notifies the Personnel Department on the appropriate form that he or she elects not to re-enroll. A Participant who has suspended payroll deductions or withdrawn contributions during any Purchase Period must re-enroll on the appropriate form to participate in the Plan in the next Purchase Period.
Each right to purchase shares of Common Stock under the Plan during a Purchase Period shall have the following terms:
(i) the right to purchase shares of Common Stock during a particular Purchase Period shall expire on the earlier of (A) the completion of the purchase of shares on the Purchase Date occurring on the last trading day of the Purchase Period; or (B) the date on which participation of such Participant in the Plan terminates for any reason;
(ii) in no event shall the right to purchase shares of Common Stock during a Purchase Period extend beyond twenty-seven (27) months from the Enrollment Date;
 
(iii) payment for shares purchased will be made only through payroll withholding and the crediting of interest and dividends, if applicable, in accordance with Sections 6 and 7;
(iv) purchase of shares will be accomplished only in accordance with Section 9;
(v) the price per share will be determined as provided in Section 9;
(vi) the right to purchase shares (taken together with all other such rights then outstanding under this Plan and under all other similar stock purchase plans of Schlumberger Limited or any Subsidiary) will in no event give the Participant the right to purchase a number of shares during any calendar year having a fair market value in excess of $25,000 (the "Maximum Share Limitation") as determined in accordance with the Section 423 of the Code and the regulations thereunder; and
(vii) the Maximum Share Limitation for a Purchase Period shall be determined as of the Grant Date (as defined in Section 9) of a Purchase Period by dividing $12,500 by the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on such Grant Date; and
(viii) the right to purchase shares will in all respects be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, as interpreted by the Committee from time to time.
 
The right to purchase shares of Common Stock granted by the Company under the Plan is for the term of a Purchase Period. The fair market value of the Common Stuck to be purchased during such Purchase Period will be determined by averaging the highest and lowest composite sale prices per share of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange ("Fair Market Value") on the first trading day of each Purchase Period or such other trading date designated by the Committee (the "Grant Date"). The Fair Market Value of the Common Stock will again be determined in the same manner on the last trading day of the Purchase Period or such other trading date designated by the Committee (the "Purchase Date"). These dates constitute the date of grant and the date of exercise for valuation purposes of Section 423 of the Code.
As of the Purchase Date, the Committee shall apply the funds then credited to each Participant's account to the purchase of whole shares of Common Stock. The cost to the Participant for the shares purchased during a Purchase Period shall be 92.5% of the lower of:
(i) the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the Grant Date; or
(ii) the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the Purchase Date.
Certificates evidencing shares purchased shall be delivered to the Custodian or to any other bank or financial institution designated by the Committee for this purpose or shall be delivered to the Participant (if the Participant has elected to receive the certificate) as soon as administratively feasible after the Purchase Date, but Participants shall be treated as the record owners of their shares effective as of the Purchase Date. Shares that are held by the Custodian or any other designated bank or financial institution shall be held in book entry form. Any cash equal to less than the price of a whole share of Common Stock shall be credited to a Participant's account on the Purchase Date and carried forward in his or her account for application during the next Purchase Period. Any Participant who purchases stock at the end of a Purchase Period and is not re-enrolled in the Plan for the next Purchase Period will receive a certificate for the number of shares held in his or her account as of the most recent Purchase Date and any cash, dividends or interest remaining in his or her account. Any Participant who terminates employment or withdraws his or her contributions from the Plan prior to the next Purchase Date, will receive a certificate for the number of shares held in his or her account and a cash refund attributable to amounts equal to less than the price of a whole share, and any accumulated contributions, dividends and interest. If for any reason a Participant's allocations to the Plan exceed $11,562.50 during a Purchase Period or if the purchase of shares with such allocations would exceed the Maximum Share Limitation, such excess amounts shall be refunded to the Participant as soon as administratively possible after such excess has been determined to exist.
 
If as of any Purchase Date the shares authorized for purchase under the Plan are exceeded, enrollments shall be reduced proportionately to eliminate the excess. Any funds that cannot be applied to the purchase of shares due to excess enrollment shall be refunded as soon as administratively feasible, including interest determined in accordance with Section 7. The Committee in its discretion may also provide that amounts representing a fractional share of Common Stock that were withheld but not applied toward the purchase of shares in a Purchase Period may be carried over to the next Purchase Period under this Plan or any successor plan according to the regulations as set forth under Section 423 of the Code.
 
A Participant may elect to withdraw shares held in his or her account at any time (without withdrawing from the Plan) by giving notice to the Personnel Department on the appropriate form. Upon receipt of such notice from the Personnel Department, the Custodian, bank or other financial institution designated by the Committee for this purpose will arrange for the issuance and delivery of all shares held in the Participant's account as soon as administratively feasible.
 
The right to participate in the Plan terminates immediately when a Participant ceases to be employed by the Company for any reason whatsoever (including death, unpaid disability or when the Participant's employer ceases to be a Subsidiary) or the Participant otherwise becomes ineligible. Participation also terminates immediately when the Participant voluntarily withdraws his or her contributions from the Plan. Participation terminates immediately after the Purchase Date if the Participant is not re-enrolled in the Plan for the next Purchase Period or if the Participant has suspended payroll deductions during any Purchase Period and has not re-enrolled in the Plan for the next Purchase Period. As soon as administratively feasible after termination of participation, the Committee shall pay to the Participant or his or her beneficiary or legal representative all amounts credited to his or her account, including interest and dividends, if applicable, determined in accordance with Section 7, and shall cause a certificate for the number of shares held in his or her account to be delivered to the Participant or to his or her beneficiary or legal representative.
 
Unless the Participant has voluntarily withdrawn his or her contributions from the Plan, shares will be purchased for his or her account on the Purchase Date next following commencement of an unpaid leave of absence by such Participant provided such leave does not constitute a termination of employment. The number of shares to be purchased will be determined by applying to the purchase the amount of the Participant's contributions made up to the commencement of such unpaid leave of absence plus interest on such contributions and dividends, if applicable, both determined in accordance with Section 7. Participation in the Plan will terminate immediately after the purchase of shares on such Purchase Date, unless the Participant has resumed eligible employment prior to the Purchase Date, in which case the Participant may resume payroll deductions immediately.
 
Each Participant may designate one or more beneficiaries in the event of death and may, in his or her sole discretion, change such designation at any time. Any such designation shall be effective upon receipt by the local Personnel Department and shall control over any disposition by will or otherwise.
As soon as administratively feasible after the death of a Participant, amounts credited to his or her account, including interest and dividends, if applicable, determined in accordance with Section 7, shall be paid in cash and a certificate for any shares shall be delivered to the Participant's designated beneficiaries or, in the absence of such designation, to the executor, administrator or other legal representative of the Participant's estate. Such payment shall relieve the Company of further liability to the deceased Participant with respect to the Plan. If more than one beneficiary is designated, each beneficiary shall receive an equal portion of the account unless the Participant has given express contrary instructions.
 
The rights of a Participant under the Plan will not be assignable or otherwise transferable by the Participant except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. No purported assignment or transfer of such rights of a Participant under the Plan, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest in the purported assignee or transferee any interest or right therein whatsoever but immediately upon such assignment or transfer, or any attempt to make the same, such rights shall terminate and become of no further effect. If this provision is violated, the Participant's election to purchase Common Stock shall terminate and the only obligation of the Company remaining under the Plan will be to pay to the person entitled thereto the amount then credited to the Participant's account.
No Participant may create a lien on any funds, securities, rights or other property held for the account of the Participant under the Plan, except to the extent that there has been a designation of beneficiaries in accordance with the Plan, and except to the extent permitted by will or the laws of descent and distribution if beneficiaries have not been designated. A Participant's right to purchase shares under the Plan shall be exercisable only during the Participant's lifetime and only by him or her.
 
Participants who are employed by non-U.S. Companies, who are paid in foreign currency and who contribute foreign currency to the Plan through payroll deductions, will have such contributions converted to U.S. dollars on a monthly basis. The exchange rate for such conversion will be the rate quoted by a major financial institution selected by the Committee in its sole discretion. If the exchange rate for certain countries cannot be quoted in this manner, the conversion rate shall be determined as prescribed by the Committee. In no event will any procedure implemented for dealing with exchange rate fluctuations that may occur during the Purchase Period result in a purchase price below the price determined pursuant to Section 9.
 
All costs and expenses incurred in administering this Plan shall be paid by the Company. Any brokerage fees for the sale of shares purchased under the Plan shall be paid by the Participant.
 
Annually, the Company shall provide or cause to be provided to each Participant a report of his or her contributions and the shares of Common Stock purchased with such contributions by that Participant on each Purchase Date.
 
All eligible Employees shall have equal rights and privileges with respect to the Plan so that the Plan qualifies as an "employee stock purchase plan" within the meaning of Section 423 or any successor provision of the Code and related regulations. Any provision of the Plan which is inconsistent with Section 423 or any successor provision of the Code shall without further act or amendment by the Company be reformed to comply with the requirements of Section 423. This Section 18 shall take precedence over all other provisions in the Plan.
 
A Participant will have no rights as a stockholder under the election to purchase until he or she becomes a stockholder as herein provided. A Participant will become a stockholder with respect to shares for which payment has been completed as provided in Section 9 at the close of business on the last business day of the Purchase Period.
 
(a) Changes in Capitalization. Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, the right to purchase shares of Common Stock covered by a current Purchase Period and the number of shares which have been authorized for issuance under the Plan for any future Purchase Period, the maximum number of shares each Participant may purchase each Purchase Period (pursuant to Section 9), as well as the price per share and the number of shares of Common Stock covered by each right under the Plan which have not yet been purchased shall be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock resulting from a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, combination or reclassification of the Common Stock, or any other increase or decrease in the number of shares of Common Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company. Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of shares of Common Stock.
(b) Dissolution or Liquidation. In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Purchase Period then in progress shall be shortened by setting a new Purchase Date (the "New Purchase Date"), and shall terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed dissolution or liquidation, unless provided otherwise by the Board. The New Purchase Date shall be before the date of the Company's proposed dissolution or liquidation. Each Participant will be notified in writing, at least thirty (30) business days prior to the New Purchase Date, that the Purchase Date for the Participant's right to purchase shares has been changed to the New Purchase Date and that the applicable number of shares will automatically be purchased on the New Purchase Date, unless prior to such date the Participant has withdrawn from the Plan as provided in Section 10 hereof.
(c) Merger or Asset Sale. In the event of a proposed sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the merger of the Company with or into another corporation, each outstanding right to purchase shares shall be assumed or an equivalent right to purchase shares substituted by the successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary of the successor corporation. In the event that the successor corporation refuses to assume or substitute the right to purchase shares, any Purchase Period then in progress shall be shortened by setting a new Purchase Date (the "New Purchase Date") and any Purchase Period then in progress shall end on the New Purchase Date. The New Purchase Date shall be before the date of the Company's proposed sale or merger. Each Participant will be notified in writing, at least thirty (30) business days prior to the New Purchase Date, that the Purchase Date has been changed to the New Purchase Date and that the applicable number of shares will be purchased automatically on the New Purchase Date, unless prior to such date the Participant has withdrawn from the Plan as provided in Section 10 hereof.
 
Except as provided in Section 20 hereof, the Board may amend or terminate the Plan at any time. No amendment shall be effective unless within one year after it is adopted by the Board it is approved by the holders of a majority of the votes cast at a meeting if such amendment would otherwise cause the rights granted under the Plan to purchase shares of Common Stock to fail to meet the requirements of Section 423 of the Code (or any successor provision).
In the event the Plan is terminated, the Committee may elect to terminate all outstanding rights to purchase shares under the Plan either immediately or upon completion of the purchase of shares on the next Purchase Date, unless the Committee has designated that the right to make all such purchases shall expire on some other designated date occurring prior to the next Purchase Date. If the rights to purchase shares under the Plan are terminated prior to expiration, all funds contributed to the Plan that have not been used to purchase shares shall be returned to the Participants as soon as administratively feasible, including interest and dividends, if applicable, determined in accordance with Section 7.
 
This Plan was originally approved by the Board on January 28, 1988, amended and restated by the Board on January 21, 1992 and 1998 and thereafter further amended. This Plan was approved by the holders of a majority of the
 
shares of outstanding Common Stock of Schlumberger Limited on April 15, 1992. This amendment and restatement approved by the Board on January 21, 2010 shall become effective as of January 1, 2010; provided, however, that the changes contained in Section 3 herein related to the increase in the number of shares which may be issued under the Plan shall not be effective unless approved by the holders of a majority of the votes cast at a meeting within the period ending January 21, 2011 (12 months after the date such increase in the number of shares which may be issued under the Plan is approved by the Board).
 
This Plan and any offering or sale made to Employees under it are subject to any governmental approvals or consents that may be or become applicable in connection therewith. Subject to the provisions of Section 21, the Board may make such changes in the Plan and include such terms in any offering under the Plan as may be desirable to comply with the rules or regulations of any governmental authority.
 
The agreements to purchase shares of Common Stock under the Plan shall contain such other provisions as the Committee and the Board shall deem advisable, provided that no such provision shall in any way be in conflict with the terms of the Plan.
 


