FILE:SLB/SLB-8K-20101108134911.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Amendment No. 1 amends the Current Report on Form 8-K that Schlumberger Limited ("Schlumberger") filed with the SEC on August 27, 2010 concerning the completion of its merger with Smith International, Inc. ("Smith"), to include the pro forma financial information required by Item 9.01(b) of Form 8-K and to include an exhibit under Item 9.01(d) of Form 8-K.
 
 
Unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements and explanatory notes, relating to Schlumberger's completion of its merger with Smith, as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2010 and for the year ended December 31, 2009 are attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K/A as Exhibit 99.1 and are filed herewith.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 8, 2010
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income for the six months ended June 30, 2010 and for the year ended December 31, 2009 combines the historical consolidated statements of income of Schlumberger Limited ("Schlumberger") and Smith International, Inc. ("Smith"), giving effect to the merger as if it had occurred on January 1, 2009. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of June 30, 2010 combines the historical consolidated balance sheets of Schlumberger and Smith, giving effect to the merger as if it had occurred on June 30, 2010. The historical consolidated financial information has been adjusted in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements to give effect to pro forma events that are (1) directly attributable to the merger, (2) factually supportable, and (3) with respect to the statement of income, expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information was based on and should be read in conjunction with the:
 
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information has been presented for informational purposes only. The pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of what the combined company's financial position or results of operations actually would have been had the merger been completed as of the dates indicated. In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not purport to project the future financial position or operating results of the combined company.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information has been prepared using the acquisition method of accounting under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and the regulations of the SEC. All material transactions between Schlumberger and Smith during the periods presented in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statement have been eliminated. Schlumberger has been treated as the acquirer in the merger for accounting purposes. The acquisition accounting is dependent upon certain valuations and other studies that have yet to commence or progress to a stage where there is sufficient information for a definitive measurement. Accordingly, the pro forma adjustments are preliminary and have been made solely for the purpose of providing this unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information. Differences between these preliminary estimates and the final acquisition accounting will occur, and these differences could have a material impact on the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements and the combined company's future results of operations and financial position.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not reflect any cost savings, operating synergies or revenue enhancements that the combined company may achieve as a result of the merger, the costs to integrate the operations of Schlumberger and Smith, or the costs necessary to achieve these cost savings, operating synergies and revenue enhancements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1: Description of Transaction
On August 27, 2010, Schlumberger acquired all of the outstanding shares of Smith, a leading supplier of premium products and services to the oil and gas exploration and production industry. The merger brings together the complementary drilling and measurements technologies and expertise of Schlumberger and Smith in order to facilitate the engineering of complete drilling systems which optimize all of the components of the drill string. Such systems will enable Schlumberger's customers to achieve improved drilling efficiency, better well placement and increased wellbore assurance as they face increasingly more challenging environments. In addition, Schlumberger's geographic footprint will facilitate the extension of joint offerings on a worldwide basis.
Under the terms of the merger agreement, Smith became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schlumberger. Each share of Smith common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the merger was converted into the right to receive 0.6966 shares of Schlumberger common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares.
At the effective time of the merger, each outstanding option to purchase Smith common stock was converted pursuant to the merger agreement into a stock option to acquire shares of Schlumberger common stock on the same terms and conditions as were in effect immediately prior to the completion of the merger. The number of shares of Schlumberger common stock underlying each converted Smith stock option was determined by multiplying the number of shares of Smith common stock underlying such Smith stock options by the 0.6966 exchange ratio, and rounding down to the nearest whole share. The exercise price per share of each converted Smith stock option was determined by dividing the per share exercise price of such stock option by the 0.6966 exchange ratio, and rounding up to the nearest whole cent. Smith stock options, whether or not then vested and exercisable, became fully vested and exercisable and assumed by Schlumberger at the effective date of the merger in accordance with preexisting change-in-control provisions. Smith stock options were converted into 0.6 million of Schlumberger stock options.
At the effective time of the merger, Smith restricted stock units, whether or not then vested, became fully vested (except for grants between the date of the merger agreement and closing, which were not significant and did not automatically vest) and were converted into shares of Schlumberger common stock in connection with the merger, determined by multiplying the number of shares of Smith common stock subject to each award by the 0.6966 exchange ratio, rounded to the nearest whole share (assuming, in the case of performance-based Smith restricted stock unit awards, the deemed attainment of the performance goals under the award at the target level).
Note 2: Basis of Presentation
The merger is reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements as being accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting. Under the acquisition method, the total purchase price described in Note 3 is measured at the closing date of the merger using the market price of Schlumberger common stock at that time. The assets and liabilities of Smith have been measured at fair value based on preliminary estimates using assumptions that Schlumberger management believes are reasonable utilizing information currently available. The final determination of fair value for certain assets and liabilities will be completed after the information necessary to complete the analysis is obtained. These amounts will be finalized as soon as practicable, but no later than one year from the acquisition date. Use of different estimates and judgments could yield materially different results.
In accordance with the SEC's rules and regulations, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not reflect any cost savings, operating synergies or revenue enhancements that the combined company may achieve as a result of the merger or the costs to integrate the operations of Schlumberger and Smith or the costs necessary to achieve these cost savings, operating synergies and revenue enhancements.
 
Note 3: Calculation of Consideration Transferred
The following details the fair value of the consideration transferred to effect the acquisition of Smith.
 
Note 4: Estimate of Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed
The following is a preliminary estimate of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed by Schlumberger in the merger, reconciled to the total fair value of the consideration transferred (in millions):
 
The following is a discussion of the adjustments made to Smith's assets and liabilities in connection with the preparation of these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements.
The estimated adjustment to write up inventories to fair value is comprised of two components, approximately $117 million for inventories carried at FIFO cost and $165 million for inventories carried at LIFO cost. Commencing with the closing of the merger, all of Smith's inventories will be carried at FIFO cost. Schlumberger's cost of revenue will reflect this increased valuation as this inventory is sold. Accordingly, Schlumberger's margins will be temporarily reduced in the initial periods subsequent to the merger. The impact of these inventory adjustments is not reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income because they will not have a continuing impact.
Inventory:
The fair value of identifiable intangible assets is determined primarily using the "income approach," which requires a forecast of all of the expected future cash flows either through the use of the relief-from-royalty method or the multi-period excess earnings method. Some of the more significant assumptions inherent in the development of intangible asset values include: the amount and timing of projected future cash flows, the discount rate selected to measure the risks inherent in the future cash flows, and the assessment of the asset's life cycle, as well as other factors. The fair value of the identifiable intangible assets, the related amortization expense and their weighted-average useful lives have been estimated as follows:
Intangible Assets:
 
The carrying value of Smith's long-term debt was remeasured to its fair value as of the closing of the merger.
Long-term debt:
As of the effective date of the merger, adjustments are made for deferred taxes as part of the accounting for the acquisition. This adjustment reflects the estimated deferred tax liability impact of the acquisition on the balance sheet, primarily relating to estimated fair value adjustments for acquired inventory, intangible assets and long-term debt. For purposes of these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, these deferred taxes are provided at the 35% U.S. federal statutory income tax rate.
Deferred tax liabilities:
Also included in the provisions for deferred taxes are amounts relating to the outside basis difference associated with shares in certain Smith non-US subsidiaries for which no taxes have previously been provided. Schlumberger expects to reverse the outside basis difference primarily through the reorganization of those subsidiaries as well as through repatriating earnings in lieu of permanently reinvesting them. In this regard, Schlumberger is in the process of assessing certain factors that impact the ultimate amount of deferred taxes to be recorded. The amount of deferred taxes recorded will likely be revised after this assessment is completed. Any revision to the amount of deferred taxes recorded will impact the amount of goodwill recorded.
Represents a pro forma adjustment to record Schlumberger's gain as a result of remeasuring its previously held equity interest in M-I SWACO, a drilling fluids joint venture that is 40% owned by Schlumberger and 60% owned by Smith. Generally accepted accounting principles require that an acquirer remeasure its previously held equity interest in an acquiree at its acquisition date fair value and recognize the resulting gain or loss in earnings. The gain is calculated based upon the acquisition date fair value of M-I SWACO. Because this pro forma adjustment will not have a continuing impact, it is excluded from the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income, but is reflected as an adjustment to goodwill and retained earnings in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet.
Gain on investment in affiliate:
Goodwill is calculated as the difference between the fair value of the consideration transferred and the values assigned to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Goodwill is not amortized, but rather is subject to impairment testing on at least an annual basis.
Goodwill:
Represents a difference in basis between Smith's noncontrolling interest balance relating to M-I SWACO and Schlumberger's equity investment in M-I SWACO.
Other:
Note 5: Adjustments to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 6: Adjustments to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Income Statement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The tax impact of the pro forma adjustments has been calculated as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
The dilutive effect of Smith stock options that will be converted into Schlumberger stock options is not significant.


