FILE:SLB/SLB-8K-20110407160301.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
.
Item 8.01 Other Events
     In connection with an automatic shelf registration statement to be filed on Form S-3, Schlumberger Limited ("Schlumberger") is filing herewith an additional financial statement exhibit to be incorporated by reference into the registration statement.
     Attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference is Schlumberger's unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the 12 months ended December 31, 2010 ("Pro Forma Information"), giving effect to the acquisition of Smith International, Inc. ("Smith") as if it had occurred on January 1, 2010.
     The Pro Forma Information combines the historical consolidated statements of income of Schlumberger and Smith. The Pro Forma Information has been adjusted to reflect pro forma events that are directly attributable to the merger, factually supportable and expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results. As such, the Pro Forma Information does not reflect any cost savings, operating synergies or revenue enhancements that the combined company may achieve as a result of the merger, the costs to integrate the operations of Schlumberger and Smith, or the costs necessary to achieve these cost savings, operating synergies and revenue enhancements.
     The Pro Forma Information has been presented for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of what the combined company's financial position or results of operations actually would have been had the merger been completed as of January 1, 2010. In addition, the Pro Forma Information does not purport to project the future financial position or operating results of the combined company.
.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
     Unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income and explanatory notes for the year ended December 31, 2010, relating to Schlumberger's completion of its merger with Smith, is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99 and is filed herewith.
     (d) Exhibit
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 7, 2011

Exhibit 99
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2010 combines the historical consolidated statements of income of Schlumberger Limited ("Schlumberger") and Smith International, Inc. ("Smith"), giving effect to the merger as if it had occurred on January 1, 2010. The historical consolidated financial information has been adjusted in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income to give effect to pro forma events that are (1) directly attributable to the merger, (2) factually supportable and (3)  expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income. In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income was based on and should be read in conjunction with the separate historical financial statements of Schlumberger as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 and the related notes included in Schlumberger's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income has been presented for informational purposes only. The pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of what the combined company's financial position or results of operations actually would have been had the merger been completed as of January 1, 2010. In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not purport to project the future financial position or operating results of the combined company.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income has been prepared using the acquisition method of accounting under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and the regulations of the SEC. All material transactions between Schlumberger and Smith during the period presented in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income have been eliminated. Schlumberger has been treated as the acquirer in the merger for accounting purposes.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income does not reflect any cost savings, operating synergies or revenue enhancements that the combined company may achieve as a result of the merger, the costs to integrate the operations of Schlumberger and Smith, or the costs necessary to achieve these cost savings, operating synergies and revenue enhancements.
 
 
Note 1: Description of Transaction
     On August 27, 2010, Schlumberger acquired all of the outstanding shares of Smith, a leading supplier of premium products and services to the oil and gas exploration and production industry. The merger brings together the complementary drilling and measurements technologies and expertise of Schlumberger and Smith in order to facilitate the engineering of complete drilling systems which optimize all of the components of the drill string. Such systems will enable Schlumberger's customers to achieve improved drilling efficiency, better well placement and increased wellbore assurance as they face increasingly more challenging environments. In addition, Schlumberger's geographic footprint will facilitate the extension of joint offerings on a worldwide basis.
     Under the terms of the merger agreement, Smith became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schlumberger. Each share of Smith common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the merger was converted into the right to receive 0.6966 shares of Schlumberger common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares.
     At the effective time of the merger, each outstanding option to purchase Smith common stock was converted pursuant to the merger agreement into a stock option to acquire shares of Schlumberger common stock on the same terms and conditions as were in effect immediately prior to the completion of the merger. The number of shares of Schlumberger common stock underlying each converted Smith stock option was determined by multiplying the number of shares of Smith common stock underlying such Smith stock options by the 0.6966 exchange ratio, and rounding down to the nearest whole share. The exercise price per share of each converted Smith stock option was determined by dividing the per share exercise price of such stock option by the 0.6966 exchange ratio, and rounding up to the nearest whole cent. Smith stock options, whether or not then vested and exercisable, became fully vested and exercisable and assumed by Schlumberger at the effective date of the merger in accordance with preexisting change-in-control provisions. Smith stock options were converted into 0.6 million Schlumberger stock options.
     At the effective time of the merger, Smith restricted stock units, whether or not then vested, became fully vested (except for grants between the date of the merger agreement and closing, which were not significant and did not automatically vest) and were converted into shares of Schlumberger common stock in connection with the merger, determined by multiplying the number of shares of Smith common stock subject to each award by the 0.6966 exchange ratio, rounded to the nearest whole share (assuming, in the case of performance-based Smith restricted stock unit awards, the deemed attainment of the performance goals under the award at the target level).
Note 2: Calculation of Consideration Transferred
     The following details the fair value of the consideration transferred to effect the acquisition of Smith.
     
Certain amounts reflect rounding adjustments
Note 3: Adjustments to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Income Statement
          The tax impact of the pro forma adjustments has been calculated as follows (in millions):
          The dilutive effect of Smith stock options that were converted into Schlumberger stock options was not significant.


