FILE:SLB/SLB-8K-20121214110300.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On December 14, 2012, Schlumberger issued a press release providing a fourth-quarter 2012 operational update, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference. In accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K, this information will not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, nor will it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The exhibit listed below is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01 of this Form 8-K.
99.1 Fourth-Quarter 2012 Operational Update Press Release.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 14, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
HOUSTON, December 14, 2012  Schlumberger Limited (NYSE:SLB) provided the following fourth-quarter operational update today:
 
 
The combined earnings per share impact of the above is estimated to be in the range of $0.05 to $0.07 per share.
Schlumberger will discuss final results of the fourth quarter in detail during its previously announced fourth quarter earnings conference call on January 18, 2013, beginning at 9:00 am (US Eastern Time), 3:00 pm (Paris time).
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our forecasts or expectations regarding the fourth quarter. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, global economic conditions; changes in exploration and production spending by Schlumberger's customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; general economic, political and business conditions in key regions of the world; pricing erosion; weather and seasonal factors; operational delays; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, including those related to offshore oil and gas exploration, radioactive sources, explosives, chemicals, hydraulic fracturing services and climate-related initiatives; the inability of technology to meet new challenges in exploration; and other risks and uncertainties detailed in our most recent Form 10-K and other filings that we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those reflected in our forward-looking statements. Schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About Schlumberger
Schlumberger is the world's leading supplier of technology, integrated project management and information solutions to customers working in the oil and gas industry worldwide. Employing more than 115,000 people representing over 140 nationalities and working in approximately 85 countries, Schlumberger provides the industry's widest range of products and services from exploration through production. Schlumberger Limited has principal offices in Paris, Houston and The Hague and reported revenues of $36.96 billion in 2011. For more information, visit .
www.slb.com
For further information, contact
Malcolm Theobald  Schlumberger Limited, Vice President of Investor Relations
Joy V. Domingo  Schlumberger Limited, Manager of Investor Relations
Office + 1 (713) 375-3535
investor-relations@slb.com


