FILE:TGT/TGT-8K-20040310200541.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
March 10, 2004
 
Target Corporation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code  
(612) 304-6073
 
 
 
Item 5.        .
Other Events
 
On March 10, 2004, Target Corporation issued a news release announcing that it will review strategic alternatives for its Mervyn's and Marshall Field's divisions.  The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
Item 7.        .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
                (c)           .
Exhibits
 
                                99.           News release dated March 10, 2004.
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
MINNEAPOLIS, March 10, 2004  Mervyn's
Target Corporation announced today that it will review strategic alternatives for its
and Marshall Field's divisions. Goldman Sachs has been engaged to advise the Corporation in this review.
Mervyn's is a promotional, middle-market department store, based in the San Francisco Bay area with 266 stores in 14 states, primarily in the west and south. In 2003, Mervyn's generated $3.6 billion in revenue and $160 million in pretax segment profit.
Marshall Field's is a traditional department store that emphasizes fashion leadership, quality merchandise and superior guest service. It is headquartered in Minneapolis and operates 62 stores in 8 states in the upper Midwest. In 2003, Marshall Field's produced revenues of $2.6 billion and pretax segment profit of $107 million.
Bob Ulrich, chairman and chief executive officer of Target Corporation, said, "We have dedicated significant effort to increasing sales and profits at Mervyn's and Marshall Field's over many years. As responsible stewards of the corporation's assets, we believe that it is appropriate at this time to identify and evaluate possible strategic alternatives and our Board of Directors concurs with this direction. While we remain committed to the creation of shareholder value over time as our primary performance objective, our evaluation of potential alternatives will also weigh the effect on our guests, our team members and the communities we serve."
The alternatives to be evaluated include, but are not limited to, the possible sale of one or both of these divisions as ongoing businesses to existing retailers or other qualified buyers. Because the company is still in the early stages of this process, it is not yet certain that any transactions will occur as a result of this review. Additionally, if this review results in one or more transactions, it is possible that a meaningful accounting gain or loss would result.
A pre-recorded message describing all information that is currently available will be accessible later this evening by calling 612-761-1005. A transcript of this pre-recorded message is also available on our web site at www.target.com/investor information/presentations. As we reach important milestones in this process and/or additional information becomes available, the company will broadly disseminate updates.
Forward-looking statements in this release should be read in conjunction with the cautionary statements in Exhibit (99)C to the company's 2002 Form 10-K.
  In addition to Mervyn's and Marshall Field's, Target Corporation operates Target Stores, a large-store, general-merchandise, discount format consisting of 1,249 stores in 47 states, as well as a direct mail and on-line business called target.direct.
                Target Corporation news releases are available at www.target.com or www.prnewswire.com.


