FILE:TGT/TGT-8K-20050315124016.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
1000 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55403
 
 
 
Item 1.01           
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On March 9, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") of Target Corporation ("Target") approved the following performance
 
 
measures for purposes of determining potential cash bonus payments to its named executive officers pursuant to Target's Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan ("STIP") for fiscal 2005: earnings before interest and taxes ("EBIT") and economic value added ("EVA").  For executives other than the CEO, the STIP provides for cash payments to be made based upon each participant's personal score and Target's achievement of performance goals for the fiscal year, and payments are based upon a percentage of the midpoint of each participant's salary range.  The CEO's bonus under the STIP will be determined by Target's achievement of performance goals, and payment is based on a percentage of base salary.  The CEO's personal score bonus is determined at the discretion of the independent members of the Board of Directors.  The incentive payout for named executive officers attributable to Target's financial performance will be based upon equal weightings of EBIT goals and EVA goals.  All payments under the STIP are subject to the limitations provided in the STIP.
 
Item 5.02          
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
On March 9, 2005, Roger A. Enrico and William W. George retired from Target's Board of Directors.  The retirements of Mr. Enrico and Mr. George each occurred pursuant to Target's retirement policy for directors, which is described in Target's Corporate Governance Profile, available through our website, .  
www.target.com
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 


