FILE:TGT/TGT-8K-20070525121049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 5.02
                          
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On May 24, 2007, at the 2007 annual meeting of shareholders of Target Corporation (the "Company"), the Company's shareholders approved the Target Corporation Officer Short-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), which previously had been approved by the Executive Committee of the Company's Board of Directors, upon recommendation by the Compensation Committee.  The Plan will be effective February 3, 2008, and replaces the Company's current Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan.
The purpose of the Plan is to promote the Company's pay-for-performance compensation philosophy by providing cash incentive awards to designated officers, who through their efforts directly and significantly impact the achievement of the Company's goals and objectives.  The Plan is designed so that certain awards under the Plan constitute "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, which will allow the Company to deduct payments of such awards for federal income tax purposes.
The Compensation Committee will administer the Plan.  Awards under the Plan may be based on one or more of the following performance measures chosen by the Compensation Committee:  revenues; sales; comparable store sales; earnings before interest and taxes; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; earnings before taxes; net earnings; earnings per share; economic value added; and total shareholder return.  In addition, for awards that are not intended to constitute performance-based compensation under Section 162(m), performance measures may also include a personal score based on any measure of management performance, or specific objectives relating to market penetration, geographic business expansion, cost targets, customer or employee satisfaction, human resources management, supervision of litigation or information technology or acquisitions or divestitures of subsidiaries, affiliates or joint ventures, or any other measure of performance as determined by the Compensation Committee.
The Compensation Committee also selects the relevant performance periods, which may not exceed four consecutive fiscal quarters, and approves the level of attainment required to earn a payment under an award.  Performance measures and the target opportunity for each participant will be determined by the Compensation Committee at the beginning of the performance period.  At the end of the performance period, the Compensation Committee will certify levels of achievement of the performance measures and pay out any earned awards in the form of cash payments.
The maximum amount payable under the Plan to any participant for any year is equal to the lesser of $7 million or 400% of the participant's base salary as of the date of grant of the award.
This summary of the Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Plan, a copy of which is attached as Appendix B to the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 9, 2007 (the "Proxy Statement").  A more detailed summary of the Plan can also be found in the Proxy Statement.
Item 5.03
                          
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On May 24, 2007, the Company filed a Certificate of Cancellation with the Secretary of State of the State of Minnesota effecting the elimination from the Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation of all matters set forth in the Statement Fixing the Rights and Preferences of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.  No shares of the Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding at the time of the filing of the Certificate of Cancellation.
Also on May 24, 2007, the Company filed Articles of Amendment of the Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Minnesota.  This amendment was approved by the Company's shareholders at the Company's 2007 annual meeting of shareholders held on May 24, 2007.  The Articles of Amendment amend the Restated Articles of Incorporation to provide that directors must receive a majority of the votes cast in uncontested elections to be elected to the Board of Directors.  The amendment was described in the Proxy Statement.  A copy of the Restated Articles of Incorporation as amended May 24, 2007 is filed as Exhibit (3)A to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01
                          
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibits
(d)
                                
Restated Articles of Incorporation (as amended May 24, 2007).
(3)A.
                                   
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit (3)A
The undersigned, JAMES T. HALE, the EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, GENERAL COUNSEL AND CORPORATE SECRETARY of TARGET CORPORATION, a Minnesota corporation (the "Corporation"), does hereby certify that the following Restated Articles of Incorporation were adopted by the Corporation in accordance with Chapter 302A of the Minnesota Statutes:
The name of the corporation is Target Corporation.
The location and post-office address of the registered office of the corporation in the State of Minnesota is number 1000 Nicollet Mall in the City of Minneapolis, County of Hennepin.
The total authorized number of shares of the corporation is 6,005,000,000.  The shares are classified in two classes, consisting of 5,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the par value of $0.01 per share and 6,000,000,000 shares of Common Stock of the par value of $0.0833 per share.
The Board of Directors is authorized to establish one or more series of Preferred Stock, setting forth the designation of each such series, and fixing the relative rights and preferences of each such series.
Each holder of record of Common Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share of Common Stock held by such shareholder on every matter voted on at every meeting of shareholders of the corporation.  No holder of shares of stock of any class or series shall be entitled to cumulate his/her votes in any election of directors.
No holder of shares of stock of any class or series shall be entitled as such, as a matter of right, to subscribe for or purchase any part of any new or additional issue of shares of stock of any class or series whatsoever or of any securities convertible into or exchangeable for any shares of stock of any class or series whatsoever, whether now or hereafter authorized or issued for cash or other consideration.
In addition to any affirmative vote required by law or these Articles of Incorporation, and except as otherwise expressly provided in Section B of this Article IV, a Business Combination (as hereinafter defined) shall require the affirmative vote of not less than seventy-five percent (75%) of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all then outstanding shares of Voting Stock (as hereinafter defined), voting together as a single class.  Such affirmative vote shall be required notwithstanding the fact that no vote may be required, or that a lesser percentage or separate class vote may be specified, by law or by any other provision of these Articles of Incorporation or in any agreement with any national securities exchange or otherwise.
A.
                                  
The provisions of Section A of this Article IV shall not be applicable to any particular Business Combination, and such Business Combination shall require only such affirmative vote, if any, as is required by law or by any other provision of these Articles of Incorporation or in any agreement with any national securities exchange or otherwise, if the conditions specified in either of the following Paragraphs 1 or 2 are met:
B.
                                    
The Business Combination shall have been approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors (as hereinafter defined).
1.
                                      
All of the following conditions shall have been met:
2.
                                      
The aggregate amount of cash and the Fair Market Value (as hereinafter defined) as of the date of the consummation of the Business Combination of consideration other than cash to be received per share by holders of Common Stock in such Business Combination shall be at least equal to the higher amount determined under clauses (i) and (ii) below:
a.
                                      
(if applicable) the highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by or on behalf of the Interested Shareholder (as hereinafter defined) for any share of Common Stock in connection with the acquisition by the Interested Shareholder of beneficial ownership of shares of Common Stock (a) within the two-year period immediately prior to the date of the first public announcement of the proposed Business Combination (the "Announcement Date") or (b) in the transaction
(i)
                                    
in which it became an Interested Shareholder, whichever is higher; and
the fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the Announcement Date or on the date on which the Interested Shareholder became an Interested Shareholder (such latter date being referred to herein as the "Determination Date"), whichever is higher.
(ii)
                                 
The aggregate amount of cash and the Fair Market Value as of the date of the consummation of the Business Combination of consideration other than cash to be received per share by holders of shares of any class or series of outstanding Capital Stock (as hereinafter defined), other than Common Stock, shall be at least equal to the highest amount determined under clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) below:
b.
                                     
(if applicable) the highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by or on behalf of the Interested Shareholder for any share of such class or series of Capital Stock in connection with the acquisition by the Interested Shareholder of beneficial ownership of shares of such class or series of Capital Stock (a) within the two-year period immediately prior to the Announcement Date or (b) in the transaction in which it became an Interested Shareholder, whichever is higher;
(i)
                                    
the Fair Market Value per share of such class or series of Capital Stock on the Announcement Date or on the Determination Date, whichever is higher; and
(ii)
                                 
(if applicable) the highest preferential amount per share to which the holders of shares of such class or series of Capital Stock would be entitled in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the corporation, regardless of whether the Business Combination to be consummated constitutes such an event.
(iii)
                              
The provisions of this Paragraph 2.b shall be required to be met with respect to every class or series of outstanding Capital Stock, whether or not the Interested Shareholder has previously acquired beneficial ownership of any shares of a particular class or series of Capital Stock.
The consideration to be received by holders of a particular class or series of outstanding Capital Stock shall be in cash or in the same form as
c.
                                      
previously has been paid by or on behalf of the Interested Shareholder in connection with its direct or indirect acquisition of beneficial ownership of shares of such class or series of Capital Stock.  If the consideration so paid for shares of any class or series of Capital Stock varied as to form, the form of consideration for such class or series of Capital Stock shall be either cash or the form used to acquire beneficial ownership of the largest number of shares of such class or series of Capital Stock previously acquired by the Interested Shareholder.  The price determined in accordance with Paragraphs 2.a and 2.b of Section B of this Article IV shall be subject to appropriate adjustment in the event of any stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares or similar event.
After such Interested Shareholder has become an Interested Shareholder and prior to the consummation of such Business Combination: (i) there shall have been no failure to declare and pay at the regular date therefor any full quarterly dividends (whether or not cumulative) payable in accordance with the terms of any outstanding Capital Stock, except as approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors; (ii) there shall have been no reduction in the annual rate of dividends paid on the Common Stock (except as necessary to reflect any stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares or similar event), except as approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors; (iii) there shall have been an increase in the annual rate of dividends paid on the Common Stock as necessary to reflect any reclassification (including any reverse stock split), recapitalization, reorganization or any similar transaction that has the effect of reducing the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock, unless the failure to increase such annual rate is approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors; and (iv) except as approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors, such Interested Shareholder shall not have become the beneficial owner of any additional shares of Capital Stock except as part of the transaction that results in such Interested Shareholder becoming an Interested Shareholder and except in a transaction that, after giving effect thereto, would not result in any increase in the Interested Shareholder's percentage beneficial ownership of any class or series of Capital Stock.
d.
                                     
After such Interested Shareholder has become an Interested Shareholder, such Interested Shareholder shall not have received the benefit, directly or indirectly (except proportionately as a shareholder of the corporation), of any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges or other financial assistance or any tax credits or other tax advantages provided by the corporation, whether in anticipation of or in connection with such Business Combination or otherwise.
e.
                                      
A proxy or information statement describing the proposed Business Combination and complying with the requirements of the Securities
f.
                                        
Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations thereunder (the "Act") (or any subsequent provisions replacing such Act, rules or regulations) shall be mailed to all shareholders of the corporation at least 30 days prior to the consummation of such Business Combination (whether or not such proxy or information statement is required to be mailed pursuant to the Act or subsequent provisions).  The proxy or information statement shall contain on the first page thereof, in a prominent place, any statement as to the advisability (or inadvisability) of the Business Combination that a majority of the Continuing Directors may choose to make and, if deemed advisable by a majority of the Continuing Directors, the opinion of an investment banking firm selected by a majority of the Continuing Directors as to the fairness (or lack of fairness) of the terms of the Business Combination from a financial point of view to the holders of the outstanding shares of Capital Stock other than the Interested Shareholder and its Affiliates (as hereinafter defined) or Associates (as hereinafter defined).
Such Interested Shareholder shall not have made or caused to be made any major change in the corporation's business or equity capital structure without the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors.
g.
                                     
For the purposes of this Article IV:
C.
                                    
The term "Business Combination" shall mean:
1.
                                      
any merger, consolidation or statutory exchange of shares of the corporation or any Subsidiary (as hereinafter defined) with (i) any Interested Shareholder or (ii) any other corporation (whether or not itself an Interested Shareholder) which is or after such merger, consolidation or statutory share exchange would be an Affiliate or Associate of an Interested Shareholder, provided, however, that the foregoing shall not include the merger of a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the corporation into the corporation or the merger of two or more wholly-owned Subsidiaries of the corporation; or
a.
                                      
any sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) to or with an Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate or Associate of any Interested Shareholder of any assets of the corporation or any Subsidiary equal to or greater than ten percent (10%) of the book value of the consolidated assets of the corporation; or
b.
                                     
any sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) to or with the corporation or any Subsidiary of any assets of any Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate
c.
                                      
or Associate of any Interested Shareholder equal to or greater than ten percent (10%) of the book value of the consolidated assets of the corporation; or
the issuance or transfer by the corporation or any Subsidiary (in one transaction or a series of transactions) to any Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate or Associate of any Interested Shareholder of any securities of the corporation (except pursuant to stock dividends, stock splits, or similar transactions which would not have the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing the proportionate share of any class or series of Capital Stock, or any securities convertible into Capital Stock or into equity securities of any Subsidiary, that is beneficially owned by any Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate or Associate of any Interested Shareholder) or of any securities of a Subsidiary (except pursuant to a pro rata distribution to all holders of Common Stock of the Corporation); or
d.
                                     
the adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the corporation proposed by or on behalf of an Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate or Associate of any Interested Shareholder; or
e.
                                      
any transaction (whether or not with or otherwise involving an Interested Shareholder) that has the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing the proportionate share of any class or series of Capital Stock, or any securities convertible into Capital Stock or into equity securities of any Subsidiary, that is beneficially owned by any Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate or Associate of any Interested Shareholder, including, without limitation any reclassification of securities (including any reverse stock split), or recapitalization of the corporation, or any merger, consolidation or statutory exchange of shares of the corporation with any of its Subsidiaries; or
f.
                                        
any agreement, contract or other arrangement or understanding providing for any one or more of the actions specified in the foregoing clauses (a) to (f).
g.
                                     
The term "Capital Stock" shall mean all capital stock of the corporation authorized to be issued from time to time under Article III of these Articles of Incorporation.  The term "Voting Stock" shall mean all Capital Stock of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the corporation.
2.
                                      
The term "person" shall mean any individual, firm, corporation or other entity and shall include any group comprised of any person and any other person with whom such person or any Affiliate or Associate of such person has any agreement,
3.
                                      
arrangement or understanding, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of Capital Stock.
The term "Interested Shareholder" shall mean any person (other than the corporation or any Subsidiary and other than any profit-sharing, employee stock ownership or other employee benefit plan of the corporation or any Subsidiary or any trustee of or fiduciary with respect to any such plan when acting in such capacity) who (a) is the beneficial owner of Voting Stock representing ten percent (10%) or more of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all then outstanding shares of Voting Stock; or (b) is an Affiliate or Associate of the corporation and at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question was the beneficial owner of Voting Stock representing ten percent (10%) or more of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all then outstanding shares of Voting Stock; or (c) is an assignee of or has otherwise succeeded to any shares of Voting Stock which were at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question beneficially owned by any Interested Shareholder, if such assignment or succession shall have occurred in the course of a transaction or series of transactions not involving a public offering within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933.
4.
                                      
A person shall be a "beneficial owner" of any Capital Stock (a) which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates beneficially owns, directly or indirectly; (b) which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has, directly or indirectly, (i) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or subject only to the passage of time), pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, or (ii) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or (iii) the right to dispose or direct the disposition of, pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding; or (c) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other person with which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of any shares of Capital stock.  For the purpose of determining whether a person is an interested Shareholder pursuant to Paragraph 4 of this Section C, the number of shares of Capital Stock deemed to be outstanding shall include shares deemed beneficially owned by such person through application of this Paragraph 5, but shall not include any other shares of Capital Stock that may be issuable pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or otherwise.
5.
                                      
The term "Affiliate", used to indicate a relationship with a specified person, shall mean a person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, such specified person.  The term "Associate", used to indicate a relationship with a specified person, shall mean (a) any person (other than the corporation or a Subsidiary) of
6.
                                      
which such specified person is an officer or partner or is, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of ten percent (10%) or more of any class of equity securities, (b) any trust or other estate in which such specified person has a substantial beneficial interest or as to which such specified person serves as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity, (c) any relative or spouse of such specified person or any relative of such spouse, who has the same home as such specified person or who is a director or officer of the corporation or any Subsidiary, and (d) any person who is a director or officer of such specified person or any of its parents or subsidiaries (other than the corporation or a Subsidiary).
The term "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation of which a majority of any class of equity security is beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by the corporation; provided, however, that for the purposes of Paragraph 4 of this Section C, the term "Subsidiary" shall mean only a corporation of which a majority of each class of equity security is beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by the corporation.
7.
                                      
The term "Continuing Director" shall mean any member of the Board of Directors of the corporation, while such person is a member of the Board of Directors, who was a member of the Board of Directors prior to the time that the Interested Shareholder involved in the Business Combination in question became an Interested Shareholder, and any member of the Board of Directors, while such person is a member of the Board of Directors, whose election, or nomination for election by the corporation's shareholders, was approved by a vote of a majority of the Continuing Directors; provided, however, that in no event shall an Interested Shareholder involved in the Business Combination in question or any Affiliate, Associate or representative of such Interested Shareholder, be deemed to be a Continuing Director.
8.
                                      
The term "Fair Market Value" shall mean (a) in the case of cash, the amount of such cash; (b) in the case of stock, the highest closing sale price during the 30-day period immediately preceding the date in question of a share of such stock on the Composite Tape for New York Stock Exchange-Listed Stocks, or, if such stock is not quoted on the Composite Tape, on the New York Stock Exchange, or, if such stock is not listed on such Exchange, on the principal United States securities exchange registered under the Act on which such stock is listed, or, if such stock is not listed on any such exchange, the highest closing bid quotation with respect to a share of such stock during the 30-day period preceding the date in question on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System or any similar system then in use, or if no such quotations are available, the fair market value on the date in question of a share of such stock as determined by a majority of the Continuing Directors in good faith; and (c) in the case of property other than cash or stock, the fair market value of such property on the date in question as determined in good faith by a majority of the Continuing Directors.
9.
                                      
In the event of any Business Combination in which the corporation survives, the phrase "consideration other than cash to be received" as used in Paragraphs 2.a and 2.b of Section B of this Article IV shall include the shares of Common Stock and/or the shares of any other class or series of Capital Stock retained by the holders of such shares.
10.
                                
The Continuing Directors by majority vote shall have the power to determine for the purposes of this Article IV, on the basis of information known to them after reasonable inquiry, (a) whether a person is an Interested Shareholder, (b) the number of shares of Capital Stock (including Voting Stock) or other securities beneficially owned by any person, (c) whether a person is an Affiliate or Associate of another, (d) whether the assets that are the subject of any Business Combination equal or exceed ten percent (10%) of the book value of the consolidated assets of the corporation, (e) whether a proposed plan of dissolution or liquidation is proposed by or on behalf of an Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate or Associate of any Interested Shareholder, (f) whether any transaction has the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing the proportionate share of any class or series of Capital Stock, or any securities convertible into Capital Stock or into equity securities of any Subsidiary, that is beneficially owned by an Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate or Associate of an Interested Shareholder, (g) whether any Business Combination satisfies the conditions set forth in Paragraph 2 of Section B of this Article IV, and (h) such other matters with respect to which a determination is required under this Article IV.  Any such determination made in good faith shall be binding and conclusive on all parties.
D.
                                   
Nothing contained in this Article IV shall be construed to relieve any Interested Shareholder from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law.
E.
                                     
The fact that any Business Combination complies with the provisions of Section B of this Article IV shall not be construed to impose any fiduciary duty, obligation or responsibility on the Board of Directors, or any member thereof, or the Continuing Directors, or any of them, to approve such Business Combination or recommend its adoption or approval to the shareholders of the corporation, nor shall such compliance limit, prohibit or otherwise restrict in any manner the Board of Directors, or any member thereof, or the continuing Directors, or any of them, with respect to evaluations of or actions and responses taken with respect to such Business Combination.
F.
                                     
Notwithstanding any other provisions of these Articles of Incorporation (and notwithstanding the fact that a lesser percentage or separate class vote may be specified by law or these Articles of Incorporation), the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than seventy-five percent (75%) of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all then outstanding shares of Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend or repeal, or adopt any provisions inconsistent with, this Article IV.
G.
                                    
No director of the corporation shall be personally liable to the corporation or its shareholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director; provided, however, that this Article V shall not eliminate or limit the liability of a director to the extent provided by applicable law (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the corporation or its shareholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or that involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under section 302A.559 or 80A.23 of the Minnesota Statutes, (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit, or (v) for any act or omission occurring prior to the effective date of this Article V.  No amendment to or repeal of this Article V shall apply to or have any effect on the liability or alleged liability of any director of the corporation for or with respect to any acts or omissions of such director occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.
The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of Directors consisting of not less than five nor more than twenty-one persons, who need not be shareholders.  The number of directors may be increased by the shareholders or Board of Directors or decreased by the shareholders from the number of directors on the Board of Directors immediately prior to the effective date of this Article VI; provided, however, that any change in the number of directors on the Board of Directors (including, without limitation, changes at annual meetings of shareholders) shall be approved by the affirmative vote of not less than seventy-five percent (75%) of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all then outstanding shares of Voting Stock (as defined in Article IV), voting together as a single class, unless such change shall have been approved by a majority of the entire Board of Directors.  If such change shall not have been so approved, the number of directors shall remain the same.  The directors shall be divided into three classes, designated Class I, Class II and Class III.  Each class shall consist, as nearly as may be possible, of one-third of the total number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors.
At the 1988 annual meeting of shareholders, Class I directors shall be elected for a one-year term, Class II directors for a two-year term and Class III directors for a three-year term.  At each succeeding annual meeting of shareholders beginning in 1989, successors to the class of directors whose term expires at that annual meeting shall be elected for a three-year term.  If the number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as nearly equal as possible, and any additional director of any class elected to fill a vacancy resulting from an increase in such class shall hold office for a term that shall coincide with the remaining term of that class.  In no case will a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director.  A director shall hold office until the annual meeting for the year in which the director's term expires and until a successor shall be elected and qualify, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office.  Removal of a director from office (including a director named by the Board of Directors to fill a vacancy or newly created directorship), with or without
cause, shall require the affirmative vote of not less than seventy-five percent (75%) of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all then outstanding shares of Voting Stock, voting together as a single class.  Any vacancy on the Board of Directors that results from an increase in the number of directors may be filled by a majority of the Board of Directors then in office, and any other vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director.  Any director elected to fill a vacancy not resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall have the same remaining term as that of such director's predecessor.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the holders of any one or more classes of preferred or preference stock issued by the corporation shall have the right, voting separately by class or series, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of shareholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by or pursuant to the applicable terms of these Articles of Incorporation, and such directors so elected shall not be divided into classes pursuant to this Article VI unless expressly provided by such terms.
No person (other than a person nominated by or on behalf of the Board of Directors) shall be eligible for election as a director at any annual or special meeting of shareholders unless a written request that his or her name be placed in nomination is received from a shareholder of record by the Secretary of the corporation not less than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the meeting, together with the written consent of such person to serve as a director.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of these Articles of Incorporation (and notwithstanding the fact that a lesser percentage or separate class vote may be specified by law or these Articles of Incorporation), the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than seventy-five percent (75%) of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all then outstanding shares of Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend or repeal, or adopt any provisions inconsistent with, this Article VI.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this 9
th
 day of January, 2002.
 
The undersigned, Timothy R. Baer, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Target Corporation, a Minnesota corporation (the "Corporation"), hereby certifies that:
A new Article VII of the Corporation's Restated Articles of Incorporation is hereby added to read in its entirety as follows:
1.
                                      
Except with respect to the election of directors, the shareholders shall take action at a meeting of shareholders by the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of the shares present and entitled to vote or such larger proportion or number as is required by law or these Articles of Incorporation.  Subject to the rights, if any, of the holders of one or more classes or series of preferred or preference stock issued by the corporation, voting separately by class or series to elect directors in accordance with the terms of such preferred or preference stock, each director shall be elected at a meeting of shareholders by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to the director, provided that directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes present and entitled to vote on the election of directors at any such meeting for which the number of nominees (other than nominees withdrawn on or prior to the day preceding the date the corporation first mails its notice for such meeting to the shareholders) exceeds the number of directors to be elected.  For purposes of this Article VII, action at a meeting shall mean action at a meeting which satisfies the notice and quorum requirements imposed by the By-Laws of this corporation, except as otherwise provided by law, and a majority of the votes cast means that the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all then outstanding shares of Voting Stock (as defined in Article IV) that are voted "for" a director must exceed the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all then outstanding shares of Voting Stock that are voted "against" that director."
The remainder of the Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation is unchanged.
2.
                                      
This amendment has been adopted pursuant to Chapter 302A of the Minnesota Statutes.
3.
                                      
 day of May, 2007.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have subscribed my name this 24
th
 


