FILE:TGT/TGT-8K-20070111141337.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02       
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain  Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On January 10, 2007, the Board of Directors appointed Gregg Steinhafel as a director of Target Corporation. Mr. Steinhafel has been designated as a Class I director and will stand for election by shareholders at Target's 2007 Annual Meeting.  Target's News Release relating to this matter is attached as Exhibit (99).
 
Item 9.01
              
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)
               
Exhibits
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
MINNEAPOLIS, January 10, 2007  Target Corporation (NYSE:TGT) announced today that Gregg Steinhafel has been appointed to its Board of Directors, effective immediately. With this appointment, Target's twelve-member Board of Directors is comprised of ten independent directors and two Target Corporation executive officers, including Mr. Steinhafel, who remains President of Target and Bob Ulrich, Chairman and CEO. As a Class I director, Mr. Steinhafel will stand for election to serve a three-year term at Target Corporation's 2007 annual shareholders' meeting.
 
Mr. Steinhafel joined Target in 1979 and served in a variety of merchandising positions until being named Executive Vice President, Merchandising in 1994. He was promoted to his current position, President of Target, in 1999. Mr. Steinhafel currently leads Target's merchandising organization, product design and development team, global distribution network and Target.com.
 
"Throughout his career, Gregg has made significant contributions to the development and implementation of our strategy," said Bob Ulrich. "With this appointment, the Board recognizes the importance of his leadership to our continued profitable growth."
 
Mr. Steinhafel, 51, is a graduate of Carroll College and Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Management. He is also a member of the board of The Toro Co. and the Retail Industry Leaders Association (RILA).
 
Target Corporation's operations include large, general merchandise discount stores and a fully integrated on-line business through which we offer a fun and convenient shopping experience with thousands of highly differentiated and affordably priced items. The company currently operates 1,488 Target stores in 47 states. Target Corporation news releases are available at www.target.com.
 
 


