FILE:TGT/TGT-8K-20071120084328.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
On November 20, 2007, Target Corporation issued a News Release containing its financial results for the three months ended November 3, 2007.  The News Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99. Forward-looking statements in this release should be read in conjunction with the cautionary statements in Exhibit (99)A to Target Corporation's 2006 Form 10-K.
On November 20, 2007, Target Corporation issued a News Release containing its financial results for the three months ended November 3, 2007.  The News Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99. Forward-looking statements in this release should be read in conjunction with the cautionary statements in Exhibit (99)A to Target Corporation's 2006 Form 10-K.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
 
                 Target Corporation (NYSE:TGT) today reported net earnings of $483 million, or 56 cents per share, for the third quarter ended November 3, 2007 compared with $506 million, or 59 cents per share, in the third quarter ended October 28, 2006. All earnings per share figures refer to diluted earnings per share.
MINNEAPOLIS, November 20, 2007
The company also announced that its Board of Directors has authorized a new $10 billion share repurchase program, replacing the previous authorization.
 
Third Quarter Earnings
"Our third quarter earnings were disappointing due to soft sales in our higher margin categories, leading to lower-than-expected gross margin in our core retail operations," said Bob Ulrich, chairman and chief executive officer. "However, we have not observed any meaningful change in the intensity of the competitive environment and continue to believe that we are well-positioned to operate in a variety of sales environments going forward."
Total revenues in the third quarter increased 9.3 percent to $14.835 billion from $13.570 billion in 2006, reflecting a 3.7 percent increase in comparable-store sales combined with the contribution from new stores and credit card operations. (Total revenues include retail sales and net credit card revenues. Comparable-store sales are sales from stores open longer than one year.)
Earnings before interest and income taxes (EBIT) were $958 million, compared with $957 million in the third quarter a year ago. A key factor in this EBIT performance was unfavorable gross margin performance resulting from weaker sales in higher margin categories such as apparel and home. Third quarter expense rate was essentially unchanged from prior year, while the contribution from credit card operations remained strong. (Gross margin rate represents sales less cost of sales expressed as a percentage of sales. Expense rate represents selling, general and administrative expenses expressed as a percentage of sales.)
 
 
The contribution from the company's credit card operations to third quarter earnings before taxes (EBT), net of the allocated interest expense, was $157 million, an increase of $23 million, or 17.1 percent, from the same period in 2006. This increase was driven by strong revenue growth, offset by higher bad debt expense. Average receivables in the quarter increased 19.6 percent over 2006, partially driven by a product change from proprietary Target Cards to higher-limit Target Visa cards for a group of higher credit-quality Target Card guests.
Net interest expense for the quarter increased $28 million compared with third quarter 2006 primarily due to higher average debt balances, including the debt to fund growth in accounts receivable.
The company's effective income tax rate for the third quarter was 38.1 percent in 2007 compared with 37.4 percent in 2006. For the full year, the effective income tax rate is still expected to increase modestly from last year's 38.0 percent rate.
 
Share Repurchase
Under a share repurchase program that began in 2004 and was increased by the Board to an $8 billion authorization in June 2007, the company repurchased $172 million of its common stock during the third quarter of 2007, acquiring 3.0 million shares at an average price of $57.29 per share. During the first three quarters of 2007, the company repurchased $1.2 billion of its common stock, acquiring 19.7 million shares at an average price of $60.72 per share. Program-to-date, the company has acquired 90.7 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $51.20, reflecting a total investment of approximately $4.6 billion.
Target also announced today that its board has authorized a new $10 billion share repurchase program that replaces the prior authorization. At recent share price levels, this authorization represents more than 20 percent of outstanding shares. The program is expected to be completed within three years, with the pace of repurchase activity being dependent on many factors, including: the strength of our business operations, the maintenance of an appropriate credit profile, capital reinvestment opportunities, access to adequate liquidity and debt and equity capital market conditions. Based on current conditions and outlook, a significant portion of the program is expected to be completed by the end of 2008. This new authorization is not contingent on any specific outcome from the review of the ownership of Target's credit card receivables.
"This repurchase program will be partially funded by an increase in the use of debt in our capital structure," Bob Ulrich said. "We believe this new program will maintain our strong investment-grade debt ratings within a prudent range while allowing for substantial value to be returned to our shareholders. Given our prospects for continued profitable market-share growth, we believe share repurchase is a particularly attractive use of our capital at this time."
 
Credit Card Receivables Ownership Review
On September 12, 2007, Target announced that it would review potential ownership alternatives for its credit card receivables, specifically whether Target or a financial institution is better suited to own those receivables. The focus of the company's review remains on the economics of possible alternatives, while
maintaining the highest brand standards for its financial products and services, continuing to invest in its outstanding financial services team and delivering an exceptional and integrated credit and retail guest experience.
 "At this point in the review, it is clear that a transaction occurs, it would involve sharing a meaningful portion of our future pre-tax credit card contribution with a new partner." said Doug Scovanner, chief financial officer. "As a result, we are continuing to evaluate whether the benefits of a potential transaction outweigh its expected dilutive impact on earnings per share. Regardless of the outcome, we remain committed to maintaining our core financial services operation and growing and developing our best-in-class Target Financial Services team."
if
For reference, pre-tax contribution from our credit card operations in 2007 is expected to total approximately $600 million. The outcome of the credit card receivables ownership review remains uncertain at this time, but it is expected to be completed by the end of December.
 
Miscellaneous
Target Corporation will webcast its third quarter earnings conference call at 9:30am CDT today.  Investors and the media are invited to listen to the call through the company's website at www.target.com/investors (click on "webcasts"). A telephone replay of the call will be available beginning at approximately 11:30am CDT today through the end of business on November 23, 2007. The replay number is (800) 642-1687 (passcode: 7390928).
Forward-looking statements in this release, including the outlook for earnings, market share growth, credit card performance, full year tax rate, and the timing to complete the new share repurchase program, should be read in conjunction with the cautionary statements in Exhibit (99)A to the company's 2006 Form 10-K.
Target Corporation's continuing operations include large, general merchandise and food discount stores, as well as an on-line business called Target.com. At quarter-end, the company operated 1,591 Target stores in 47 states.
                Target Corporation news releases are available at www.target.com.
 
(Tables Follow)
 
 
Subject to reclassification
 
 
Subject to reclassification
Subject to reclassification
(a)  In thousands; reflects total square feet, less office, distribution center and vacant space.
 
(b)  Comparable-store sales growth is calculated by comparing sales in current year periods to comparable, prior year periods of equivalent length.
 
 
Effective February 2007, the Company redefined Credit Card Contribution to Earnings Before Taxes (EBT). We have reclassified prior period amounts to conform to the current year disclosure. These reclassifications had no effect on our Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
Represents an allocation of consolidated interest expense based on estimated funding costs for average net accounts receivable and other financial services assets and is included in net interest expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.
(a)
         
 
Primarily consists of new account and loyalty rewards program discounts on our REDcard products, which are included as reductions of sales in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.
(b)
        
 
Included in depreciation and amortization in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.
(c)
         
 
Net interest income divided by average accounts receivable.
(d)
        


