FILE:TGT/TGT-8K-20120127160048.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02.  .
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
On January 24, 2012 Target Corporation announced that John J. Mulligan has been promoted to the position of executive vice president and chief financial officer effective April 1, 2012.  A copy of Target's press release announcing this event is attached as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
In connection with this promotion, Mr. Mulligan will receive stock options, restricted stock units and performance share units having a grant date present value of $1 million, $500,000 and $500,000, respectively, under the Corporation's 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Item 9.01. 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
MINNEAPOLIS (January 24, 2012)  Target Corporation (NYSE:TGT) today announced the promotion of John Mulligan, senior vice president, Finance to executive vice president and chief financial officer, effective April 1, 2012. This announcement concludes a comprehensive search which included both internal and external candidates. Mr. Mulligan, 46, replaces Doug Scovanner, Target's EVP and CFO for the past 18 years, who announced his retirement in November 2011, effective March 31, 2012.
 
Mr. Mulligan has a broad range of relevant experience and extensive knowledge of Target. During the past 16 years with the company, he has held key leadership positions in Finance, Target.com and Human Resources. In his most recent role, Mulligan was responsible for treasury, internal and external financial reporting and financial operations. As executive vice president and chief financial officer, Mulligan's responsibilities will include treasury, internal and external financial reporting, financial planning and analysis, financial operations, tax, assurance, investor relations and flight services. Following Mr. Scovanner's retirement and to underscore the company's commitment to pursue a sale of its credit card receivables on appropriate terms, Terry Scully, president Target Financial and Retail Services, will report directly to Gregg Steinhafel, chairman, president and chief executive officer, Target.
 
"John brings significant financial experience and strategic perspective to this new role," said Steinhafel. "I am confident that he will sustain the financial discipline and stewardship Target has enjoyed during Doug's tenure and believe John's strong leadership and record of performance make him a valuable addition to our Target executive team."
 
In addition to his Target responsibilities, Mr. Mulligan serves on the Finance Committee for Habitat for Humanity, the University of Wisconsin Business School Dean's Advisory Board and is chair of the Governance Committee for Alliance to Make US Healthiest.
 
Target also confirmed today that Doug Scovanner, following his retirement as EVP and CFO on March 31, 2012, will remain with the company in a part-time capacity until early November 2012. In this role, Doug will continue to support Target's Board and executive leadership in the development and execution of corporate strategy, including remaining engaged in external relationships with investors, financial institutions and ratings agencies, which will ensure a seamless transition of responsibilities to John Mulligan.
 
About Target
Minneapolis-based Target Corporation (NYSE:TGT) serves guests at 1,767 stores across the United States and at Target.com. The company plans to open its first stores in Canada in 2013. In addition, the company operates a credit card segment that offers branded proprietary credit card products. Since 1946, Target has given 5 percent of its income through community grants and programs; today, that giving equals more than $3 million a week. For more information about Target's commitment to corporate responsibility, visit .
Target.com/hereforgood
 
For more information, visit .
Target.com/Pressroom
 


