FILE:TAP/TAP-8K-20021231133705.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Potential persons who are to respond to the collection of information contained in this form are not required to respond unless the form displays a currently valid OMB control number.
OMB APPROVAL OMB Number: 3235-0060 Expires: March 31, 2003 Estimated average burden hours per response: 1.25
Item 5. Other Events
        Pursuant to a packaging supply agreement (the "Agreement"), Coors Brewing Company (the "Company") purchases most of its domestic paperboard and label packaging from Graphic Packaging Corporation ("GPC"), which is a subsidiary of Graphic Packaging International Corporation. Under its original terms, the Agreement was due to expire on December 31, 2002. Pursuant to an amendment dated December 30, 2002, the term of the Agreement has been extended until March 31, 2003. A conformed copy of the amendment is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. The Company and management currently anticipate that, subject to finalization of terms and approval of the boards of directors of both the Company and GPC, a new packaging supply agreement by and between the Company and GPC will be executed prior to March 31, 2003.
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
(a)
Financial Statements of Business Acquired.
        Not applicable
(b)
Pro Forma Financial Information.
        Not applicable
(c)
Exhibits.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
QuickLinks
PART II. OTHER INFORMATION
Item 5. Other Events
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
SIGNATURES

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99.1
This First Amendment to Supply Agreement (the "Amendment") is made effective as of the 30th day of December, 2002, by and between Coors Brewing Company ("COORS"), a Colorado Corporation with its principal place of business in Golden, Colorado, and Graphic Packaging Corporation ("GPC"), a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business in Golden, Colorado.
WHEREAS COORS and GPC
entered into a Supply Agreement effective September 1, 1998, which agreement is set to expire on December 31, 2002 (the "Supply Agreement");
WHEREAS COORS and GPC
have agreed in principle to the business terms of a new supply agreement;
WHEREAS COORS and GPC
have determined that their respective board of directors must approve the terms of the new supply agreement;
WHEREAS
the next occasion where the respective boards of directors will convene a regular meeting will not occur until February of 2003;
NOW
, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained in this Amendment and for other good and valuable consideration, COORS and GPC agree to amend the Supply Agreement as follows:
1.
Section 2.0 of the Supply Agreement shall be amended so that the existing first sentence of that section shall be replaced in its entirety by the following: "This Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and shall continue in effect until March 31, 2003, unless earlier terminated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement."
2.
All other terms of the Supply Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Notwithstanding paragraph 2 above, pricing and packaging materials costs will remain in full force and effect as reflected on the price list dated May 30, 2002, and there shall be no commodity price increase effective January 1, 2003. The difference between these costs and those that are incorporated into a new agreement between the parties shall be accrued by each party beginning January 1, 2003. Reconciliation of the differences between the prices paid and the costs incurred between January 1, 2003 and the effective date of a new agreement will be settled within thirty (30) days of the effective date of the new agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, a duly authorized representative of each of the parties have executed this Amendment as of the date first above written.
QuickLinks
Exhibit 99.1
SECOND AMENDMENT TO SUPPLY AGREEMENT


