FILE:TAP/TAP-8K-20030724112555.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 7(c). Exhibits
ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
        This information set forth under "Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure" is intended to be furnished under said Item 9 and also under "Item 12. Results Of Operations And Financial Condition" in accordance with SEC Release No. 33-8216.
        As such, the information hereunder shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be incorporated by reference into a filing under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
        On July 24, 2003, Adolph Coors Company issued the press release filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
QuickLinks
PART II. OTHER INFORMATION
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 7(c). Exhibits
ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
SIGNATURES
EXHIBIT INDEX

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99.1
        GOLDEN, Colo.Adolph Coors Company today announced higher consolidated sales for the second quarter of 2003. The company also reported higher net income and earnings per share, driven by a reduction in the company's effective tax rate in the quarter.
        For the 13-week quarter ended June 29, 2003, the company reported consolidated net sales of $1.1 billion, a 5.0 percent increase from a year earlier. Second quarter consolidated sales volume totaled 9,132,000 U.S. barrels, or 10,716,000 hectoliters (HLs), up 2.8 percent from a year ago.
        The company reported consolidated 2003 second quarter net income of $76.3 million, a 12.9 percent increase from the second quarter of 2002. Second quarter 2003 diluted earnings per share were $2.09, growing 13.6 percent from $1.84 per diluted share last year. This increase was driven by a temporary reduction in the company's effective tax rate to 25.8 percent in the second quarter, primarily related to the Coors Brewers Limited (CBL) acquisition tax structure and the favorable resolution of several tax audits. The tax rate for full year 2003 is currently anticipated to be in the range of 31 to 32 percent, with the longer-term rate closer to 36 percent.
        Leo Kiely, Coors Brewing Company (CBC) president and chief executive officer, said, "Although Coors Brewing Company's sales and net income were higher in the second quarter, our operating income declined 4.1 percent as a result of challenges in both of our major business segments. Lower Americas sales-to-retail reflected a very soft U.S. beer industry, which was hindered by poor weather in many parts of the country and general economic weakness that continued from the first quarter of the year. In addition, we faced challenges in a few high-share markets. Lower sales-to-retail largely offset solid pricing and margins in the quarter. U.S. Coors Light sales-to-retail declined at a low-single-digit rate, while Keystone Light continued to grow at a low-double-digit rate. In our U.K. business, strong volume performance was offset by negative channel shifts, off-premise price discounting and reduced income from sales of other companies' beverage brands ("factored brands") that are sold through our U.K. sales and distribution structure. Year-over-year results were also reduced by several transitional arrangements that generated pretax income in 2002, but not this year. These transitional arrangements, which are no longer in effect, included contract brewing and other services related to the CBL acquisition. Consolidated second quarter operating results also were reduced by expected higher pension and interest expense.
        "Highlights during the quarter included further significant progress by our U.S. operations team in reducing costs per barrel, which more than offset increased pension and fuel costs. We were successful in rebuilding our U.S. distributor inventories during the quarter, and we're encouraged by stronger U.S. sales trends in early July as we entered the second half of the peak summer selling season. Also, our Coors Light business in Canada continued its strong performance, growing volume at a mid-single-digit rate and posting pretax earnings of $11.9 million. In our Europe segment, volume and share trends in our U.K. business were very strong, driven by our Carling brand growing at a low-double-digit rate and Grolsch volume growing at a solid double-digit rate.
        "Looking ahead, we expect that sales mix shifts in our Americas and Europe segments will continue to challenge us. During the remainder of the year, we will focus on improving these trends, while driving volume and share growth."
Americas Segment Results
        Americas segment net sales increased 2.3 percent compared to the second quarter 2002. Second quarter 2003 sales volume totaled 6,419,000 U.S. barrels (7,533,000 HLs), up 0.8 percent from 2002. U.S. domestic sales-to-retail decreased an estimated 1.9 percent during the quarter compared to the second quarter of 2002. Total Americas distributor sales-to-retail decreased about 3.1 percent, largely due to an excise tax increase in Puerto Rico during June of last year. Pretax income in the Americas segment increased 4.0 percent to $90.2 million.
Europe Segment Results
        Europe segment net sales increased 10.0 percent in the second quarter of 2003. Second quarter 2003 sales volume of owned and licensed beverage brands totaled 2,713,000 U.S. barrels (3,184,000 HLs), up 8.1 percent from a year ago. Europe segment pretax income of $41.9 million was down 10.1 percent from a year ago.
        Adolph Coors Company will conduct a conference call with financial analysts and investors at noon Eastern Time today to discuss the company's second quarter financial results. A live webcast of the conference call will be accessible via the company's website, www.coors.com, in the "Invest In Us" area of the site. An online replay of the conference call webcast will be available within two hours following the live webcast until 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on August 24, 2003.
(Summary of Operations Attached)
Forward-Looking Statements
        
This press release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws, commonly identified by such terms as "looking ahead," "anticipates," "estimates" and other terms with similar meaning. Although the Company believes that the assumptions upon which its forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these assumptions will prove to be correct. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company's projections and expectations are disclosed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, changes in consumer product preferences, industry price discounting, and increases in costs. All forward-looking statements in this press release are expressly qualified by such cautionary statements and by reference to the underlying assumptions.
Note:
Results for the first 5 weeks of fiscal 2002 exclude Coors Brewers Limited (U.K.)
Note:
All results prior to 2/2/02 exclude Coors Brewers Limited, leaving only pre-CBL-acquisition Europe results prior to 2/2/02.
QuickLinks
Exhibit 99.1
ADOLPH COORS COMPANY SUMMARY OF OPERATIONSCONSOLIDATED 2nd QUARTER 2003 (Unaudited)
ADOLPH COORS COMPANY SUMMARY OF OPERATIONSAMERICAs 2nd QUARTER 2003 (Unaudited)
ADOLPH COORS COMPANY SUMMARY OF OPERATIONSEUROPE 2nd QUARTER 2003 (Unaudited)
ADOLPH COORS COMPANY SUMMARY OF OPERATIONSCORPORATE 2nd QUARTER 2003 (Unaudited)


