FILE:TAP/TAP-8K-20051115141306.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
On November 10, 2005, the Board of Directors of Molson Coors Brewing Company (the "Company") appointed Gary S. Matthews to serve as a member of the Company's Board.  On November 10, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Matthews to the Board.  A copy of that press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
The Committees of the Board to which Mr. Matthews will be appointed have not been determined as of the date of this filing.  The Company will file an amendment to this Current Report within four days of the date on which such determination is made.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 Eric H. Molson, Chairman, is pleased to announce the appointment of Gary S. Matthews to the Board of Directors of Molson Coors Brewing Company.
MONTREAL, Canada, and DENVER, USA, November 10, 2005
 
In his career spanning over 25 years, Gary Matthews has had leadership and operational roles at Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Pepsico, Inc. and Procter & Gamble Company, including several years within Diageo plc, as President of Guinness Import Company, Inc. and Managing Director for Guinness UK.  He also held a senior manager role at McKinsey & Company.
 
"I am pleased to welcome Gary to our Board and am looking forward to his valuable insight. His broad executive and marketing experience gained serving several global consumer companies, including a world-wide beer industry player, brings an additional dimension to the current depth of our Board," said Eric H. Molson.
 
Mr. Matthews, who is currently President and CEO of Sleep Innovations, Inc., is a graduate from Princeton University and has an MBA from Harvard Business School.   His appointment to the Molson Coors Brewing Company board is effective November 10, 2005.
 
Molson Coors Brewing Company is the fifth largest brewer in the world. It brews, markets and sells a portfolio of leading premium quality brands such as Coors Light, Molson Canadian, Molson Dry, Carling, Kaiser, Coors, and Keystone Light. It operates in Canada, through Molson Canada; in the U.S., through Coors Brewing Company; in the UK, Europe and Asia, through Coors Brewers Limited; and in Brazil, through Cervejarias Kaiser. For more information on Molson Coors Brewing Company, visit the company's website, www.molsoncoors.com.
 
 
 


