FILE:TAP/TAP-8K-20070807083333.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 Form 8-K Current Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): 08/07/2007 MOLSON COORS BREWING COMPANY (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Commission File Number: 1-14829 Delaware 84-0178360 (State or other jurisdiction of (IRS Employer incorporation) Identification No.) 1225 17th Street, Suite 3200, Denver, Colorado 80202 1555 Notre Dame Street East, Montreal, Quebec, Canada, H2L 2R5 (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code) (303) 277-3500 / (514) 521-1786 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: |_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) |_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
PART II. OTHER INFORMATION Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition. On August 7, 2007, Molson Coors Brewing Company issued a press release setting forth its earnings for the fiscal second quarter ending July 1, 2007. A copy of its press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. MOLSON COORS BREWING COMPANY Date: August 7, 2007 /s/ Martin L. Miller ------------------------------------ (Martin L. Miller, Global Controller and Chief Accounting Officer) EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- 99.1 Press release of Molson Coors Brewing Company dated August 7, 2007, reporting 2007 second quarter results.

CONTACT: News Media FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ---------- 8/7/2007 Paul de la Plante (514) 590-6349 Investor Relations ------------------ Dave Dunnewald Kevin Caulfield (303) 279-6565 (303) 277-6894 MOLSON COORS REPORTS HIGHER NET INCOME AND EARNINGS PER SHARE ON HIGHER NET SALES AND VOLUME FOR 2007 SECOND QUARTER DENVER and MONTREAL, Aug. 7/PRNewswire-FirstCall/ - Molson Coors Brewing Company (NYSE: TAP; TSX) today reported higher consolidated sales volume, net income and earnings per share for the Company's fiscal 2007 second quarter. Key results for the Company's fiscal second quarter ended July 1, 2007, compared to the fiscal second quarter ended June 25, 2006, include the following: o Net sales increased 5.9 percent to $1.68 billion. o Sales volume of 11.5 million barrels, or 13.5 million hectoliters (HLs), grew 0.7 percent; total Company sales to retail (STRs) down 0.7 percent. Canada STRs up 1.1 percent, U.S. STRs up 1.6 percent, U.K. STRs down 7.5 percent. o Cost of goods sold increased 5.1 percent to $966.9 million. o Marketing, general and administrative expenses rose 1.9 percent to $456.9 million. o Net income was $185.0 million. o Income from continuing operations (after tax) was $184.3 million. o Excluding special and other one-time items, income from continuing operations (after tax) was $176.1 million, or $1.94 per diluted share, up 44.9 percent compared to $121.6 million, or $1.40 per diluted share, in the second quarter 2006. (See "Special and Other One-Time Items" and "Discontinued Operations" below.) All $ amounts in U.S. dollars. See tables below for reconciliations to nearest U.S. GAAP measures. Leo Kiely, Molson Coors president and chief executive officer, said, "We were pleased with our Company's performance during the second quarter. We were especially pleased that we continued to grow overall volume and achieved share gains in our two largest markets. We remained focused on building our strategic brands, led by Coors Light. In addition, we delivered on cost reduction plans across our global enterprise, offsetting a significant portion of our cost inflation challenges." Through the end of the second quarter 2007, the Company's year-to-date savings from merger synergies and next-generation cost savings programs totaled $78 million. Foreign exchange rate movements increased total-company pretax income by approximately $7 million in the second quarter 2007. The Company's effective tax rate during the second quarter 2007 for income from continuing operations was 13 percent, or 20 percent excluding special and other one-time items, compared to negative 3 percent and positive 31 percent, respectively, during the second quarter a year ago. (continued)
Molson Coors Brewing Company - 2 Canada business pretax income was $146.2 million, excluding special and other one-time items, a 1.9 percent increase compared to the second quarter 2006. Canada sales volume increased 4.0 percent, driven by a 1.1 percent increase in sales to retail and the inclusion of the higher volume week leading into the Canada Day weekend in the second quarter 2007 versus its inclusion in the third quarter 2006. During the second quarter 2007, the Company's Canada business grew quarterly market share for the first time in nearly four years. Strong growth in Coors Light, Rickard's, Creemore, Carling and the Company's partner import brands was partially offset by a decline in other premium, discount and unsupported brands. Canada business net sales increased approximately 5 percent in local currency. Net sales per barrel increased approximately 1 percent in local currency compared to the second quarter 2006. Cost of goods sold per barrel increased approximately 6 percent in local currency, driven by growth of the Company's higher-cost super-premium partner import brands and the mark-to-market adjustments of certain foreign currency hedge positions. Synergies and other cost reduction initiatives more than offset the Canada business cost of goods increase related to inflation. Reductions in general and administrative expenses more than offset increased brand investments, resulting in a decrease of 1 percent in marketing, general and administrative expenses in local currency. United States Business U.S. business pretax income was $98.1 million, up 39.1 percent compared to the second quarter 2006, excluding special charges a year ago, driven by sales volume growth, higher net pricing and results of the Company's merger synergies and other cost saving initiatives. Sales volume and net sales in the U.S. business increased 3.1 percent and 5.4 percent, respectively, from the second quarter 2006, while net sales per barrel increased 2.2 percent. U.S. business 50-state sales to retail grew 2.0 percent, driven by a low-single-digit growth by Coors Light and double-digit growth of Blue Moon and mid-single-digit growth of Keystone Light. U.S. business cost of goods per barrel decreased 0.5 percent driven by cost-saving initiatives and lower depreciation expense, largely offset by higher commodity, transportation and packaging material costs. Synergies and other cost savings offset about two-thirds of cost of goods inflation in the U.S. business. Marketing, general and administrative expenses were down 0.9 percent, with higher brand-building and sales investments more than offset by decreases in general and administrative costs. Europe Business Excluding special items, Europe business pretax income was $38.9 million, up 5.1 percent from the second quarter 2006, driven by higher sales per barrel, continued progress on cost saving initiatives, higher pension income and an approximately 9 percent appreciation in the British pound versus the U.S. dollar. Europe business owned-brand sales volume decreased 7.5 percent compared to the second quarter 2006. Lower volumes were largely attributable to cycling increased sales during the World Cup soccer tournament a year ago, as well as unusually poor weather in the second quarter 2007. Europe business year-over-year results also were negatively (continued)
Molson Coors Brewing Company - 3 impacted by a $5.5 million gain on sale of real estate in the second quarter 2006. U.K. owned-brand net sales per barrel increased slightly more than 4 percent in local currency compared to the second quarter 2006. Cost of goods sold per barrel for the Company's owned brands decreased approximately 1 percent in local currency during the quarter. Marketing, general and administrative expenses in the U.K. decreased approximately 1 percent in local currency, with higher marketing spend in the second quarter more than offset by reductions in general and administrative costs. Corporate Expenses The Company's Corporate general and administrative expenses totaled $30.3 million in the second quarter 2007, an increase of $2.0 million from the second quarter 2006 due to debt-restructure fees and investments in cost-saving projects. The Company's recent convertible offering and associated debt tender are expected to reduce future interest payments by approximately $15 million annually. In the second quarter 2007, net interest expense, excluding interest income from trade loans in the U.K., was $27.8 million, $12.0 million lower than a year ago due primarily to lower average net debt balances in 2007 and lower expense related to adjusting Ontario Beer Store interest rate swaps to market value. Special and Other One-time Items During the second quarter 2007 the Company reported net special charges of $25.4 million including a $24.1 million charge in Canada related to the impairment of the value of the Company's Foster's U.S. license agreement, and $1.2 million in special restructuring expenses in the Europe business supply chain. One-time items during the second quarter 2007 included other income from a $16.7 million gain on the sale of the Company's equity interest in the House of Blues Canada business. In addition, one-time tax benefits reduced the Company's reported tax expense by $11.5 million in the second quarter 2007. The non-recurring tax benefits were related to revaluation of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities for a one-half percentage-point reduction in the Canada corporate income tax rate, as well as a one-time adjustment to reduce the Company's liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits. In the second quarter a year ago, the Company had reported net special charges totaling $25.8 million and a one-time tax benefit of $52.3 million from reductions in Canada federal and provincial corporate income tax rates. Discontinued Operations The Company reports results for its former Brazilian unit, Cervejarias Kaiser ("Kaiser") as discontinued operations. The Company reported net income of $0.6 million from discontinued operations during the quarter arising from favorable foreign currency exchange rates that more than offset a small increase in the indemnity estimates related to Kaiser. 2007 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call Molson Coors Brewing Company will conduct an earnings conference call with financial analysts and investors at noon Eastern Time today to discuss the Company's 2007 second quarter results. (continued)
Molson Coors Brewing Company - 4 The Company will provide a live webcast of the earnings call. Approximately two hours after the conclusion of the earnings call, the Company also will host an online, real-time webcast of an Investor Relations Follow-up Session with financial analysts at 3:00 p.m. Eastern Time. Both webcasts will be accessible via the Company's website, http://www.molsoncoors.com. Online replays of the webcasts will be available until 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on September 30, 2007. Reconciliations to Nearest U.S. GAAP Measures 2007 Second Quarter After-tax Income From Continuing Operations, Excluding Special and Other One-time Items (Note: Some numbers may not sum due to rounding.) 2007 Second Quarter Pretax Income From Continuing Operations, Excluding Special and Other One-time Items (Note: Some numbers may not sum due to rounding.) (continued)
Molson Coors Brewing Company - 5 Pretax and After-tax Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations, Excluding Special and Other One-time Items should be viewed as a supplement to -- not a substitute for -- our results of operations presented on the basis of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We believe that Pretax and After-tax Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations, Excluding Special and Other One-time Items is used by and is useful to investors and other users of our financial statements in evaluating our operating performance because it provides them with an additional tool to evaluate our performance without regard to items such as special items, which can vary substantially from company to company depending upon accounting methods and book value of assets and capital structure. Our management uses Pretax and After-tax Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations, Excluding Special and Other One-time Items as a measure of operating performance to assist in comparing performance from period to period on a consistent basis; as a measure for planning and forecasting overall expectations and for evaluating actual results against such expectations; and in communications with the board of directors, stockholders, analysts and investors concerning our financial performance. Forward-Looking Statements This press release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws, and language indicating trends, such as "trend improvements," "progress," "anticipated," "expected," "improving sales trends" and "on track." It also includes financial information, of which, as of the date of this press release, the Company's independent auditors have not completed their review. Although the Company believes that the assumptions upon which the financial information and its forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these assumptions will prove to be correct. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company's projections and expectations are disclosed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, changes in consumer preferences and product trends; price discounting by major competitors; unanticipated expenses, margin impact and other factors resulting from the recent merger; failure to realize anticipated results from synergy initiatives; and increases in costs generally. All forward-looking statements in this press release are expressly qualified by such cautionary statements and by reference to the underlying assumptions. We do not undertake to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. # # #
MOLSON COORS BREWING COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) (UNAUDITED)
MOLSON COORS BREWING COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES CANADA SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (IN THOUSANDS) (UNAUDITED)
MOLSON COORS BREWING COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES UNITED STATES SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (IN THOUSANDS) (UNAUDITED)
MOLSON COORS BREWING COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES EUROPE SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (IN THOUSANDS) (UNAUDITED)
MOLSON COORS BREWING COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES CORPORATE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (IN THOUSANDS) (UNAUDITED) (1) The amounts shown are reflective of revenues and costs associated with the marketing of the Company's intellectual property, including trademarks and brands.
MOLSON COORS BREWING COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (IN THOUSANDS) (UNAUDITED)
MOLSON COORS BREWING COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (IN THOUSANDS) (UNAUDITED)


