FILE:TAP/TAP-8K-20071012155627.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On October 9, 2007, Molson Coors Brewing Company ("Molson Coors" or the "Company") announced that Peter Swinburn has been appointed president and chief executive officer of Coors Brewing Company, effective December 1, 2007.  Biographical and other information with respect to Mr. Swinburn required by Item 5.02(c) of Form 8-K, including information with respect to material plans, contracts and arrangements in which he participates, is contained in Molson Coors's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 16, 2007, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 11, 2007, and such information is incorporated herein by reference.  The material terms of any amended compensation arrangements for Mr. Swinburn in connection with such appointment is unavailable at this time, but will be reported when finalized and approved by the Board of Directors.
On October 9, 2007, Molson Coors also announced that Mark Hunter will replace Mr. Swinburn as chief executive officer of Coors Brewers Limited, effective December 1, 2007.  Mr. Hunter, age 44, has served as chief commercial officer of Molson Canada since May 2005.  From 1997 to 2005, he served as marketing director of Bass Brewers Ltd., which was acquired by Coors Brewing Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, in 2002 and renamed Coors Brewers Limited.  Mr. Hunter participates in the Molson Coors Incentive Plan and the Company's Long Term Incentive program but is not otherwise a party to and does not participate in any material plan, contracts or arrangements.   The material terms of any amended compensation arrangements for Mr. Hunter in connection with such appointment is unavailable at this time, but will be reported when finalized and approved by the Board of Directors.
A copy of Molson Coors's press release announcing the appointments of Messrs. Swinburn and Hunter is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibit(s)
Exhibit No.            Description
99.1                 Press release issued by Molson Coors Brewing Company dated October 9, 2007 announcing the appointment of Peter Swinburn and Mark Hunter.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Denver and Montral, Oct. 9, 2007.  Molson Coors Brewing Company (NYSE; TAP; TSX) today named Peter Swinburn president and chief executive officer of Coors Brewing Company effective Dec. 1.
Swinburn is currently serving as Chief Executive Officer of Coors Brewers Limited, Molson Coors' European and Asian business unit.  Molson Coors today also named Mark Hunter, currently Chief Commercial Officer of Molson Canada, as CEO of Coors Brewers Limited replacing Swinburn.
"Peter is a seasoned and strong leader, generating significant positive change in our UK business despite an incredibly challenging industry environment," said Leo Kiely, Chief Executive Officer, Molson Coors.  "He has successfully strengthened Coors Brewers through a strong focus on brands, consumer-driven innovations and marketing strategies, cost reduction, and production efficiencies."
For the past two years, under Swinburn's direction, Coors Brewers has generated solid EBIT and margin growth, developed a significant stream of market innovations including C2  a mid-strength Carling brand, and launched Coors Light successfully in the UK in response to the country's growing trend toward lighter lagers.
Prior to his current position at Coors Brewers, Swinburn served as President of Coors Brewers Worldwide and was based in Denver. He has been
 
in the beer industry since 1974 and joined Coors during its acquisition of the Bass U.K. business in 2002.
Swinburn is a graduate of the University of Wales with a BSc Honours in Economics and is also a member of the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Mark Hunter steps into the role as CEO of Coors Brewers with an extensive background in the beer business and many years as a brand builder and strategic leader.
"Mark brings outstanding qualifications to the leadership of our Coors Brewers business team," said Kiely.  "He has deep knowledge and insight into the U.K. market.  His keen sense of how to market brands in different cultures and his strategic thinking ability will be key to winning in our U.K. business."
Hunter's responsibilities currently include all sales and marketing activities across Canada.  He also chairs the Molson Coors Marketing Council, responsible for enterprise-wide thinking on portfolio management, insight and innovation, emerging consumer communication models and marketing capability.  Hunter has nearly 20 years of beer industry experience, beginning with Bass Brewers Ltd. where he held a number of positions of increasing responsibility.
Hunter is a graduate of the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow, Scotland with an Honours Bachelor degree in Marketing and Business Administration.
Molson Coors Brewing Company is one of the world's largest brewers. It brews, markets and sells a portfolio of leading premium quality brands such as Coors Light, Molson Canadian, Molson Dry, Carling, Coors, and Keystone Light. It operates in Canada, through Molson Canada; in the U.S., through Coors Brewing Company; in the UK, Europe and Asia, through Coors Brewers Limited. For more information on Molson Coors Brewing Company, visit the company's website, www.molsoncoors.com.
 
 


