FILE:TAP/TAP-8K-20080722171146.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
The Board of Directors of Molson Coors Brewing Company (the "Company") appointed Iain J.G. Napier to serve as a member of the Company's Board of Directors, as of July 17, 2008.  On July 18, 2008, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Napier to the Board.  A copy of that press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
The Committees of the Board to which Mr. Napier will be appointed have not been determined as of the date of this filing.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
 
DENVER AND MONTREAL (July 18, 2008)  Molson Coors Brewing Company (NYSE: TAP; TSX) announced today that former brewing and leading consumer goods executive Iain J.G. Napier will join its Board of Directors effective immediately.
 
From 2002 to 2006, Napier served as Chief Executive Officer of Taylor Woodrow plc, an international housing and development company with $7 billion in sales.   Prior to this, he worked extensively in the beer industry.  From 2000-2001, he was Vice President, U.K. and Ireland for InBev S.A., following their acquisition of Bass Brewers.  From 1989-2000 he held various leadership positions with Bass, including as a main board director, Chief Executive Officer, Bass Brewers from 1996-2000.  Earlier in his career, Napier also held senior management positions at Ford Motor Company and Whitbread plc.
 
A resident and native of the United Kingdom, Napier is currently non-executive Chairman of Imperial Tobacco Group plc, non-executive chairman of McBride plc, and a non-executive director of Collins Stewart plc.
 
"Iain Napier will be a valuable addition to our Board," notes Eric Molson, Chairman of Molson Coors Brewing Company. "He brings significant expertise specific to the brewing industry, along with extensive experience in consumer goods, finance, and executive leadership as well as a global perspective to our business as we enter a period of opportunity and growth for Molson Coors."
 
About Molson Coors Brewing Company:
 
Molson Coors Brewing Company is one of the world's largest brewers. It brews, markets and sells a portfolio of leading premium quality brands such as Coors Light, Molson Canadian, Molson Dry, Carling, Coors, and Keystone Light in North America, Europe and Asia. It operates in Canada, through Molson Canada; in the US, through the MillerCoors joint venture; in the U.K. and Ireland, through Coors Brewers Limited. For more information on Molson Coors Brewing Company, visit the company's Web site, www.molsoncoors.com.
 
 


