FILE:TAP/TAP-8K-20080611170428.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On June 6, 2008, the Molson Coors Brewing Company ("Molson Coors" or the "Company") Board of Directors appointed Peter Swinburn to serve as president and chief executive officer of the Company, effective upon the closing of the MillerCoors joint venture transaction pursuant to which SABMiller plc and the Company will combine their U.S. and Puerto Rico operations (the "Joint Venture").  The Joint Venture is anticipated to close on June 30, 2008.  Mr. Swinburn currently serves as president and chief executive officer of Coors Brewing Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.  In addition, on June 6, 2008, the Nominating Committee of the Company's Board of Directors appointed Mr. Swinburn to serve as a member of the Board, and the Board confirmed the appointment, effective upon the closing of the Joint Venture, to fill the vacancy on the Board created by the resignation of Leo Kiely, who, as previously disclosed, will be leaving the Company to become president and chief executive office of the Joint Venture.  It is not anticipated that Mr. Swinburn will serve on any Committees of the Board.
 
Biographical and other information with respect to Mr. Swinburn required by Item 5.02(c) of Form 8-K, including information with respect to material plans, contracts and arrangements in which he participates, is contained in Molson Coors's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 15, 2008, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 31, 2008, and such information is incorporated herein by reference.  The Company has not entered into or materially amended the terms of any compensation arrangements with Mr. Swinburn and will separately disclose any such changes when finalized and approved by the Board of Directors.
 
On June 6, 2008, the Company's  Board of Directors appointed Stewart Glendinning to replace Mr. Wolf as its chief financial officer, effective upon the closing of the Joint Venture.  As previously disclosed, Mr. Wolf will be leaving the Company effective upon the closing of the Joint Venture to become the chief integration officer of the Joint Venture.  Mr. Glendinning, age 43, has served as chief financial officer of Coors Brewers Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, since 2005. Prior to that, he served as a managing director of The Hackett Group (fka, Answerthink Inc.) from 1997 to 2005.  Mr. Glendinning participates in the Molson Coors Incentive Plan and the Company's Long Term Incentive program but is not otherwise a party to and does not participate in any material plan, contracts or arrangements.    The Company has not entered into or materially amended the terms of any compensation arrangements with Mr. Glendinning and will separately disclose any such changes when finalized and approved by the Board of Directors.
 
A copy of Molson Coors's press release announcing the appointments of Messrs. Swinburn and Glendinning is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01       Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit No. 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
 
 Molson Coors Brewing Company (NYSE: TAP; TSX) announced today the appointment of Peter Swinburn as President and Chief Executive Officer and Stewart Glendinning as Global Chief Financial Officer.  Both appointments are effective upon the close of the previously announced agreement with SABMiller plc to form the MillerCoors joint venture in the U.S., currently anticipated to occur on or about June 30, 2008.
DENVER AND MONTREAL (June 10, 2008)
 
Swinburn, currently the President and Chief Executive Officer of Coors Brewing Company, joined the company in 2002 during the Coors Brewers, Ltd. acquisition in the U.K.  Swinburn has held various senior leadership roles around the world and was responsible for introducing Molson Coors brands to several emerging markets, including Asia.  Glendinning, who joined Molson Coors in 2005, is currently the Chief Financial Officer for Coors Brewers, Ltd., the U.K.-based subsidiary of Molson Coors Brewing Company.
 
"Molson Coors has an extremely deep and talented management team and we are very pleased to have leaders like Peter and Stewart step seamlessly into these critical roles and take our company into its next exciting chapter," said Eric Molson, Chairman of Molson Coors Brewing Company.  "Peter has been in the beer industry for 34 years, knows every facet of our business, has experience in global markets and has a proven ability to lead successfully through times of change and growth.  He has played an important role in Molson Coors' success through his contributions in growing our brands, raising our productivity and introducing Coors Light to new and promising markets."
 
Molson added, "Since joining us in 2005, Stewart has brought energy, expertise and passion to his management of the Finance and Information Systems activities within our U.K business.  His accounting and finance experience at a global level ensure that we will continue to focus on building a solid financial foundation at Molson Coors while making certain that our global growth opportunities contribute strongly to our bottom line."
 
Pete Coors, Vice-Chairman of the Board at Molson Coors Brewing Company, stated, "Our vision for Molson Coors is to be a top-performing global brewer with great brands and inspired employees.  Both Peter and Stewart embody that attitude  they are passionate about the beer business and about the people they lead.  Although we'll miss working with Leo Kiely and Tim Wolf on a day-to-day basis, we are pleased to be in the very capable hands of Peter and Stewart going forward."
 
"I am honored to have the opportunity to lead Molson Coors," said Swinburn. "This is a storied and remarkable franchise, with some of its best moments to come.  Leo has done an incredible job building brands and delivering strong results and I will be dedicated to further advancing our position as a leader in this industry.  I look forward to working closely with the many talented
 
executives at Molson Coors, along with the Coors and Molson families, to ensure a smooth and seamless transition and capitalize on the many growth opportunities we have in front of us."
 
Additional Background Information:
 
Prior to assuming his current role at Coors Brewing Company, Swinburn served as Chief Executive Officer of Coors Brewers Limited, the U.K. subsidiary of Molson Coors, responsible for the company's business in the U.K., Europe and Asia.  He has also served as president of Coors Brewing Worldwide and as Chief Operating Officer of Coors Brewers Limited.  Mr. Swinburn graduated from the University of Wales with a BSc Honours in Economics.
 
Glendinning, who has lived and worked across Europe and North and South America, joined Molson Coors in 2005.  Previously, he was managing director and a principal at The Hackett Group, a professional services company where he led the finance consulting practice and built their European operations from start-up.  Prior to the Hackett Group, he served at KPMG's World Class Finance Organization where he focused on helping CFOs to redesign their organizations or increased efficiency and effectiveness.  Glendinning obtained a BBA (Accounting) at the College of William and Mary in Virginia and a JD from the University of Miami.
 
About Molson Coors Brewing Company:
 
Molson Coors Brewing Company is one of the world's largest brewers. It brews, markets and sells a portfolio of leading premium quality brands such as Coors Light, Molson Canadian, Molson Dry, Carling, Coors, and Keystone Light throughout North America, Europe and Asia. It operates in Canada, through Molson Canada; in the US, through Coors Brewing Company; in the U.K. and Ireland, through Coors Brewers Limited. For more information on Molson Coors Brewing Company, visit the company's Web site, http://www.molsoncoors.com.
 
 
 


