FILE:TAP/TAP-8K-20090803204115.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02   Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On August 3, 2009, Molson Coors Brewing Company issued a press release setting forth its earnings for the fiscal 2009 second quarter ending June 28, 2009.  A copy of its press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
This Form 8-K/A is being filed exclusively for the purpose of including a conformed signature on the Form 8-K filed on August 3 2009.
 
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)     Exhibits.
 
99.1     Press Release disseminated August 3, 2009
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
DENVER, Colo., and MONTREAL, Quebec  Molson Coors Brewing Company (NYSE: TAP; TSX) today reported strong income growth for the second quarter.  Net income attributable to Molson Coors increased 136.3 percent to $187.3 million for the second quarter, up from $79.4 million a year ago.  Underlying after-tax income(1) increased 20.6 percent to $205.4 million, or $1.11 per diluted share, up from $170.3 million, or $0.92 per diluted share a year ago.
 
Peter Swinburn, Molson Coors president and chief executive officer, said "Our Company is off to a solid start in the first half of this year, reflecting the benefit of our strong brands, strategic initiatives, and cost reduction programs.  In the second quarter, we again achieved positive pricing and local currency profit growth in each of our major markets, which helped offset the impact of lower volume, increased input costs and unfavorable currency movements.  While we expect the balance of 2009 to present challenges in the areas of competitive price discounting in Canada and cost inflation across our company, we are addressing these issues by staying focused on building strong brands, reducing costs, generating cash, and driving shareholder value."
 
Second Quarter Highlights
 
Key operating and financial highlights for the Company's fiscal second quarter ended June 28, 2009, compared to the fiscal second quarter ended June 29, 2008, include the following:
 
                 
Underlying after-tax income(1) increased 20.6 percent to $205.4 million, or $1.11 per diluted share, up from $170.3 million, or $0.92 per diluted share a year ago.  This earnings performance was driven by increased beer pricing and substantial cost reductions across the Company, which were partially offset by continuing unfavorable currency movements, cost inflation, and lower worldwide volume.
                 
Second quarter 2009 results include the impact of unfavorable foreign currency movements, which decreased total underlying pretax income approximately $21 million versus a year ago.
                 
Excluding the impact of foreign currency, the Company's underlying income increased approximately 30 percent in the quarter.
 
                 
Molson Coors worldwide beer volume decreased 3.2 percent on a pro forma basis, due to poor weather in key geographies, a weak global economy, and the Company's strategy in the U.K. to emphasize revenue growth over low-margin volume growth.
                 
Worldwide Coors Light volume grew 3 percent from a year ago.
 
The Company's effective tax rate during the second quarter 2009 for income from continuing operations was 20 percent on a reported basis, and 22 percent on an underlying basis.  The Company estimates that its full-year 2009 effective tax rate will be in the range of 10 percent to 14 percent.
 
During the quarter,
Molson Coors achieved an incremental $32 million of cost savings as part of its three-year, $250 million Resources for Growth (RFG) cost savings program.  Savings from the RFG program during the past 2  years now total $229 million.  These cost savings include the company's 42 percent share of RFG cost savings that were achieved by MillerCoors, which equaled $3 million in the second quarter.
 
MillerCoors achieved $60 million in synergies in the second quarter, largely due to
the network optimization savings realized from moving production of Coors brands into former Miller breweries, continued realization of organizational savings, and savings in marketing investment.  Molson Coors' 42 percent share of these synergies is $25 million.  Year-to-date, MillerCoors has delivered $110 million in synergies, and the Company now expects to achieve $260 million of cumulative synergies by the end of calendar 2009, surpassing its original commitment of $225 million.  While the timing of synergy delivery has accelerated, MillerCoors' $500 million synergy goal is unchanged.
 
Molson Coors Brewing Company's total worldwide beer volume was
13.533
million hectoliters in the quarter, 3.2 percent lower versus the prior year on a pro forma basis, as shown in Table 1 below.
 
Molson Coors Brewing Company
Table 1:
2009 Second Quarter Worldwide Beer Volume
(In Millions of Hectoliters)
 
 
Notes:
NM = Not Meaningful
(1) Reflects the elimination of the U.S. segment volume reported for the 13 weeks ended June 29, 2008, and the addition of Molson Coors Brewing Company's proportionate share of MillerCoors and Modelo Molson sales-to-retail for the periods presented, adjusted for comparable trading days, if applicable.
 
Business Segments
 
Following are the Company's 2009 second quarter results by business segment:
Canada Business
 
Canada underlying pretax income in local currency grew 2 percent versus a year ago as a result of positive net pricing and the benefit of cost savings initiatives, which more than offset inflation impacts in the quarter.  On a reported basis,
Canada underlying pretax income was $137.3 million in the second quarter, 11.0 percent lower than a year ago
as local currency profit growth was offset by a 13 percent, or $18 million, year-over-year decline in the Canadian dollar versus the
U.S. dollar
.
 
Canada sales-to-retail (STRs) decreased 0.5 percent in the second quarter versus last year. 
Strategic brands increased almost 2 percent, led by high-single-digit growth of Coors Light and solid growth by Rickard's.  Molson Canadian declined at a mid-single-digit rate versus prior year.
 
Canada beer industry volumes increased an estimated 1.8 percent in the quarter.
 
Canada sales volume was 2.4 million hectoliters, down 2.9 percent versus 2008.  Comparable(2) net sales per hectoliter increased 2.6 percent in local currency, driven by front-line price increases in all major markets and improved sales mix, partially offset by promotional activity across Canada.
 
Cost of goods sold per hectoliter increased 1.7 percent on a comparable basis in local currency, due to a 2  percent inflationary increase from commodities, packaging materials, distribution, and other input costs, and a 2 percent increase from overhead costs and ongoing product mix shifts.  Savings from cost reduction initiatives more than offset inflation and reduced cost of goods sold per hectoliter by 3 percentage points.
 
Comparable marketing, general and administrative expenses decreased approximately 1 percent in local currency, driven by lower overhead costs.
 
Other income increased $3.9 million due to foreign currency gains.
 
United States Business (MillerCoors)(3)
 
Molson Coors underlying U.S. segment pretax income increased 26.5 percent to $142.7 million in the second quarter due to strong underlying income growth by MillerCoors.  U.S. segment results include the Company's 42 percent share of second quarter 2009 net income attributable to MillerCoors and various adjustments for the equity income calculation under U.S. GAAP, which are then compared to the year-earlier results reported by the legacy Coors business.
 
MillerCoors
Operating and Financial Highlights (U.S. GAAP)
 
For the quarter, underlying net income attributable to MillerCoors, excluding special items, increased by 16.4 percent to $325.3 million versus the prior year pro forma quarter.  This earnings growth was driven by strong net revenue growth, cost management and continued synergy delivery.
 
In a soft beer market, MillerCoors domestic STRs were down 0.8 percent versus the prior year pro forma quarter due to a decline in Miller Lite STRs and softness in above premium brands, mostly offset by positive results in five of the six focus brands.  The six national focus brands
increased STRs by 1.3 percent, led by Coors Light, MGD 64, and Keystone Light.  Domestic sales-to-wholesalers (STWs) declined 1.1 percent, driven by lower STRs and a slight reduction in distributor inventories.
 
MillerCoors total net sales increased by 1.6 percent to $2.14 billion versus the prior pro forma quarter.  Excluding contract brewing and company-owned distributor sales, net sales increased 1.7 percent to $2.00 billion.  Third-party contract brewing volumes declined 6.5 percent,
though profits were in line with the prior year comparable quarter.
 
Pricing remained strong in the second quarter as domestic net sales per hectoliter, excluding contract brewing and company-owned distributor sales, increased by 3.0 percent based on 2008 price increases.
 
Though MillerCoors continues to realize supply-chain-related synergies and deliver savings from its cost leadership programs, cost of goods sold per hectoliter increased by 5.1 percent due to significant prior year hops sales, as well as increased brewing and packaging material costs this year, primarily glass, aluminum and barley.
 
For the quarter, marketing, general and administrative costs
decreased by 10.8 percent, driven primarily by synergies and other cost savings.
 
Depreciation and amortization expense for MillerCoors in the second quarter was approximately $72 million, and additions to tangible and intangible assets totaled $120 million.
 
United Kingdom Business
 
The U.K. business reported underlying pretax income of $36.8 million in the second quarter, an increase of $15.3 million, or 70.1 percent, versus the same quarter last year.  These results include the impact of a
22 percent decline in the value of the British pound versus the U.S. dollar, which reduced underlying pretax income by approximately $10 million.  In local currency, the U.K. business underlying pretax earnings were up nearly 118 percent. 
This solid quarterly performance was driven by positive results from the strategic actions our U.K. team has taken in the past year, including supplier negotiations leveraging our contract brewing arrangement and brand building efforts, which allowed us to forgo low-margin volume.
 
U.K. owned-brand volume decreased 12.4 percent during the quarter due to soft industry performance and the Company's strategy to forgo low-margin volume.  The U.K. beer industry declined approximately 5 percent in the second quarter, reflecting a weak economy in that market.
 
In local currency, comparable U.K. net sales per hectoliter of owned products increased 19.8 percent, approximately three-quarters driven by higher net pricing in all channels, and the balance of the increase attributable to positive sales mix.
 
Comparable cost of goods sold per hectoliter of owned brands was virtually unchanged in local currency in the second quarter, reflecting higher input cost inflation and fixed cost de-leverage as a result of lower volumes, offset by favorable channel mix and cost-reduction savings.
Marketing, general and administrative expense increased 10.1 percent in local currency due to higher marketing and incentive compensation expenses in the second quarter.
 
Global Markets Business and Corporate
 
The underlying pretax loss for Global Markets and Corporate was $52.1 million, a 14.6 percent reduction versus the second quarter of 2008.
 
The Company's Global Markets business grew volume more than 18 percent, on a small base, driven by the strength of Coors Light in China and Carling in Europe.  Marketing, general and administrative expense for Global Markets was $12.6 million in the quarter, an increase of $3.3 million versus a year ago.
 
Corporate general and administrative expense was $30.6 million in the second quarter, an increase of $4.7 million, driven by higher incentive compensation and project spending this year.
 
Corporate net interest expense was $22.0 million in the second quarter, a decrease of $7.9 million compared to a year ago, with approximately $4 million of this reduction attributable to foreign currency movements and nearly all the balance primarily due to BRI deconsolidation.  In the quarter, Corporate other expense of $8.9 million was driven by a one-time mark-to-market expense related to the Foster's cash-settled total-return swap.
 
Special and Other One-Time Items
 
During the second quarter 2009, the Company reported net special charges of $7.1 million pretax, which was composed primarily of $5.7 million of costs associated with the Cobra brand acquisition and $1.1 million of restructuring costs in the U.K.
 
Other one-time items in the quarter included a $12.9 million non-cash mark-to-market expense in corporate other related to the cash-settled total-return swap the Company arranged with respect to Foster's common stock in 2008, as well as $1.0 million to establish an environmental litigation reserve.
 
During the second quarter of 2009, MillerCoors reported special charges totaling $20.4 million, including a charge for pension curtailment and integration expenses.
  This
equates to $8.6 million at Molson Coors' 42 percent economic ownership share.
 
These special and other one-time items have been excluded from underlying earnings in the second quarter 2009.
 
Discontinued Operations
 
The Company reports results associated with its former Brazilian unit, Cervejarias Kaiser ("Kaiser"), as discontinued operations.  In the second quarter, gains from small reductions in liabilities were offset by losses from foreign exchange.
2009 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call
 
Molson Coors Brewing Company will conduct an earnings conference call with financial analysts and investors at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time today to discuss the Company's 2009 second quarter results.  The Company will provide a live webcast of the earnings call.
 
Approximately two hours after the conclusion of the earnings call, the Company also will host an online, real-time webcast of an Investor Relations Follow-up Session with financial analysts at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Time.  Both webcasts will be accessible via the Company's website, www.molsoncoors.com.  Online replays of the webcasts will be available until 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on November 3, 2009.  The Company will also post this release and related financial statements on its website today.
 
Footnotes:
 
(1) The Company calculates non-GAAP underlying income by excluding special and other one-time items from the nearest U.S. GAAP earnings measure.  To calculate underlying income in the second quarter of 2009, the Company excluded one-time expenses, particularly related to MillerCoors, the Foster's cash-settled total-return swap, and an environmental liability reserve, as well as net special charges of $7.1 million pretax.  For further details, please see the section "Special and Other One-Time Items", along with tables for reconciliations to the nearest U.S. GAAP measures.  All $ amounts are in U.S. Dollars.
 
(2)  Except where otherwise indicated, comparable Canada results exclude the deconsolidation of Brewers Retail Inc. in Ontario on March 1, 2009, and effects of forming MillerCoors in 2008.  Comparable results also exclude the year-over-year impact for beer sales to MillerCoors.  With the completion of the MillerCoors joint venture, the financial impact of our brand exports to the U.S. are no longer being treated as inter-company sales and eliminated upon consolidation of total Molson Coors results.  Sales volume for these U.S. exports is excluded from Canada results and is now reported by MillerCoors.
 
(3) 
MillerCoors, a U.S. joint venture of Molson Coors Brewing Company and SABMiller plc, was launched on July 1, 2008.  Molson Coors has a 42 percent economic interest in MillerCoors, which is accounted for using the equity method.  Molson Coors' interest in MillerCoors results, along with certain adjustments under U.S. GAAP, are reflected in "Equity Income in MillerCoors."  Historical period results have not been reclassified to conform to this presentation, so year-over-year comparisons of consolidated and U.S. segment volume, net sales, cost of goods sold, and marketing, general and administrative results are less meaningful.  For comparability, the parent companies of MillerCoors have provided a full income statement for second quarter 2009, along with pro forma results for the prior year period.  This release also includes reconciliation from MillerCoors Net Income to Molson Coors Brewing Company Equity Income in MillerCoors  and Non-GAAP U.S. Segment Underlying Pretax Income (see Table 5).
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws, and language indicating trends, such as "trend improvements," "progress," "anticipated," "expected," "improving sales trends" and "on track." It also includes financial information, of which, as of the date of this press release, the Company's independent auditors have not completed their review.   Although the Company believes that the assumptions upon which the financial information and its forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these assumptions will prove to be correct. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company's projections and expectations are disclosed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, changes in consumer preferences and product trends; price discounting by major competitors; failure to realize the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from MillerCoors; failure to realize anticipated results from synergy initiatives; and increases in costs generally.  All forward-looking statements in this press release are expressly qualified by such cautionary statements and by reference to the underlying assumptions. We do not undertake to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Reconciliations to Nearest U.S. GAAP Measures
 
Molson Coors Brewing Company
Table 2:
 2009 Second Quarter Underlying After-Tax Income
(After-Tax Income From Continuing Operations, Excluding Special and Other One-time Items)
(In Millions of $US, Except Per Share Data)
(Note: Some numbers may not sum due to rounding.)
 
 
Notes:
(1) Included in Other Income (Expense)
(2) Included in Equity Income in MillerCoors, but excluded from non-GAAP underlying pretax income.
Molson Coors Brewing Company
Table 3:
 2009 Second Quarter Underlying Pretax Income
(Pretax Income From Continuing Operations, Excluding Special and Other One-time Items)
(In Millions of $US)
(Note: Some numbers may not sum due to rounding.)
 
 
Notes:
(1) Included in Other Income (Expense)
(2) Included in Equity Income in MillerCoors, but excluded from non-GAAP underlying pretax income.
 
MillerCoors LLC
Table 4:
  2009 Second Quarter Underlying Net Income
(Net Income, Excluding Special Items)
(In Millions)
 
 
Pretax and after-tax underlying income should be viewed as a supplement to  not a substitute for  our results of operations presented on the basis of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.  We believe that underlying income performance is used by and is useful to investors and other users of our financial statements in evaluating our operating performance because it provides them with an additional tool to evaluate our performance without regard to items such as special items, which can vary substantially
from company to company depending upon accounting methods and book value of assets and capital structure.  Our management uses underlying income as a measure of operating performance to assist in comparing performance from period to period on a consistent basis; as a measure for planning and forecasting overall expectations and for evaluating actual results against such expectations; and in communications with the board of directors, stockholders, analysts and investors concerning our financial performance.
 
Molson Coors Brewing Company
Table 5:  Reconciliation of Net Income Attributable to MillerCoors to MCBC's Equity Income in MillerCoors and Reconciliation to U.S. Segment Underlying Pretax Income
(In Millions)
(Note: Some numbers may not sum due to rounding.)
 
 
Notes:
(1) MillerCoors made its initial accounting policy elections upon formation, impacting certain asset and liability balances.  These adjustments reflect the impact to our investment in MillerCoors, which is based upon our contributed assets and liabilities.
(2) MCBC's net investment in MillerCoors is based on the carrying values of the net assets it contributed to the joint venture.  MCBC's investment basis in MillerCoors is less than our underlying equity (42%) in the total net assets of MillerCoors (contributed by both Coors and Miller) by approximately $644 million.  This amount is being amortized over a period of time represented primarily by the remaining useful lives of long-lived assets giving rise to the difference.  For non-depreciable assets, such as goodwill, no adjustment will be recorded to the MillerCoors equity method income unless there is an impairment.
(3) The net adjustment is to record all stock-based compensation associated with preexisting equity awards to be settled in MCBC Class B common stock held by former CBC employees now employed by MillerCoors and eliminate all stock-based compensation impacts related to preexisting SABMiller equity awards held by Miller employees now employed by MillerCoors.  The adjustment is to recognize the additional 58% of the stock-based compensation costs associated with those awards recognized and reported by MCBC's U.S. business and eliminate all of the costs associated with equity awards to be settled in SABMiller equity.
(4) MillerCoors Q2 2009 Special Items of $20.4 million, multiplied by MCBC's proportionate share of MillerCoors at 42%, equals $8.6 million. MillerCoors first half of 2009 Special Items of $30.8 million, multiplied by MCBC's proportionate share of MillerCoors at 42%, equals $12.9 million.
 
Molson Coors Brewing Company and Subsidiaries
Table 6:  Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
(In Millions, Except Per Share Data)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
Molson Coors Brewing Company and Subsidiaries
Table 7:
  Canada Segment Results of Operations
(In Millions)
(Unaudited)
 
 
Molson Coors Brewing Company and Subsidiaries
Table 8:
  United States Segment Results of Operations
(In Millions)
(Unaudited)
 
 
Notes:
(1) Reflects the formation of MillerCoors on July 1, 2008.  Prior periods reflect results of the Company's pre-existing U.S. operations.
Molson Coors Brewing Company and Subsidiaries
Table 9:
  United Kingdom Segment Results of Operations
(In Millions)
(Unaudited)
 
 
Molson Coors Brewing Company and Subsidiaries
Table 10:
  Global Markets and Corporate Results of Operations
(In Millions)
(Unaudited)
 
 
MillerCoors LLC (1)
Table 11:
 Results of Operations
(In Millions)
(Unaudited)
 
 
Notes:
(1) Economic ownership of MillerCoors LLC is 58% held by SABMiller and 42% held by Molson Coors.  See Table 5 in the release for a reconciliation from MillerCoors net income to Molson Coors equity income in MillerCoors.
Molson Coors Brewing Company and Subsidiaries
Table 12:
  Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In Millions)
(Unaudited)
 
Molson Coors Brewing Company and Subsidiaries
Table 13:
  Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In Millions)
(Unaudited)
 


