FILE:TAP/TAP-8K-20110901171543.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On August 29, 2011, Molson Coors Brewing Company (the "Company") named Zahir Ibrahim as its new Controller and Chief Accounting Officer, effective October 1, 2011. As previously announced, William G. Waters, the Company's current Controller and Chief Accounting Officer, will serve as the Company's Chief Corporate Strategy Officer, effective October 1, 2011.
 
Mr. Ibrahim, age 41, joined the Company's UK business in 2007 as Vice President of Financial Planning and Control and most recently served as Vice President of Commercial Finance. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Ibrahim served as Chief Financial Officer of CML Innovative Technologies, a global electronics business, from 2006 to 2007.
 
Mr. Ibrahim participates in the Company's Incentive Plan but is not otherwise a party to and does not participate in any other material plans, contracts or arrangements. The Company has not entered into or materially amended the terms of any compensation arrangements with Mr. Ibrahim.
 
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)   Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
DENVER AND MONTREAL (September 1, 2011)
 Global brewer Molson Coors Brewing Company (NYSE: TAP) announced today that Zahir Ibrahim has been named the Company's
Controller, effective October 1, 2011.  Ibrahim will replace Bill Waters, who
was named the Company's Chief Corporate Strategy Officer in January, but has continued to serve in his role as Controller until this appointment. 
Ibrahim has been with Molson Coors since 2007, serving in various finance roles in the Company's UK business.
 
Most recently, Ibrahim served as vice president of commercial finance, where he was responsible for providing accounting and financial support to the Company's UK sales and marketing operations.  Earlier, he served as vice president of UK financial planning and control. His responsibilities included leading accounting and compliance processes, providing insight and analysis on financial performance, as well as developing operating plans that integrate tax, risk and treasury management.
 
Prior to joining Molson Coors, Ibrahim spent eight years in the US where he was the divisional Chief Financial Officer for two global businesses in the electronics and chemicals industries. He also served as Controller for Pirelli Tire North America and Pirelli UK Truck business. Ibrahim has a BA in Economics and Accounting from the University of Sheffield and an MBA from the University of Warwick.
 
Peter Swinburn, President and CEO of Molson Coors stated, "Zahir has been a valued member of the UK leadership team for many years, and we are fortunate to be in a position to fill this role internally. 
On behalf of our Board and the leadership team, I want to congratulate Zahir on this exciting new opportunity and look forward to working closely with him as he takes on this critical responsibility for the company."
 
About Molson Coors Brewing Company:
 
Molson Coors Brewing Company is a leading global brewer delivering extraordinary brands that delight the world's beer drinkers. It brews, markets and sells a portfolio of leading premium brands such as Coors Light, Molson Canadian, Carling, Blue Moon, and Keystone Light across The Americas, Europe and Asia. It operates in Canada through Molson Coors Canada; in the US through MillerCoors; and in the U.K. and Ireland through Molson Coors UK. For more information on Molson Coors Brewing Company and its portfolio of brands, visit the company's Web site, www.molsoncoors.com.
 
Media Contacts - Molson Coors Brewing Company
:
Colin Wheeler
303-927-2443
colin.wheeler@molsoncoors.com
 
Marie-Hlne Lagac (for French press)
514-598-6966
Mariehelene.lagace@molsoncoors.com
 


