FILE:MOLX/MOLX-8K-20060810091236.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.01
Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
     On June 30, 2006, Molex Incorporated ("Molex") announced that it had entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") by and among Molex, MLX Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Molex ("Purchaser"), and Woodhead Industries, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Woodhead"). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Purchaser commenced a cash tender offer to acquire all of Woodhead's common stock, par value $1.00 per share (the "Shares"), at a price of $19.25 per share, without interest, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Offer to Purchase, dated July 10, 2006, as amended, and the related Letter of Transmittal, which were filed as exhibits to the Schedule TO (as amended or supplemented from time to time) filed by the Company and Purchaser with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 10, 2006 (the "Offer").
     The Offer expired at 12:00 Midnight, New York City time, on August 4, 2006. Based upon information provided by Computershare Trust Company, N.A., the depositary for the Offer, 11,713,124 Shares were validly tendered and not withdrawn, including 185,006 Shares tendered by notice of guaranteed delivery, which represents approximately 93.7% of all issued and outstanding Shares. On August 7, 2006, Purchaser accepted for payment in accordance with the terms of the Offer all Shares validly tendered and not withdrawn prior to the expiration of the Offer. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of a press release issued by Molex on August 7, 2006, which press release is incorporated herein by reference.
     On August 9, 2006, Purchaser merged with and into Woodhead and Woodhead became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The Merger was implemented on an expedited basis pursuant to the short-form merger procedure available under Delaware law. On that date, the Shares ceased to be traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 is a copy of a press release issued by Molex on August 10, 2006, which press release is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
     (e) The following exhibits are being furnished as part of this Form 8-K:
Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     Lisle, Illinois, USA  August 7, 2006  Molex Incorporated (Nasdaq: MOLX and MOLXA), a global electronic components company, announced today that its wholly-owned subsidiary has completed its cash tender offer for all outstanding shares of common stock of Woodhead Industries, Inc. at a price of $19.25 per share.
     The tender offer and withdrawal rights expired at midnight, New York City time, on Friday, August 4, 2006. According to the depositary for the offer, a total of 11,713,124 shares (representing approximately 93.7% of the outstanding shares), including 185,006 shares subject to guarantees of delivery, were tendered and not withdrawn prior to the expiration of the offer. MLX Acquisition Corp., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Molex, has accepted for purchase all shares tendered and not withdrawn in accordance with the terms of the offer. Stockholders who validly tendered prior to the expiration of the offer and whose shares were not properly withdrawn will promptly receive the offer price of $19.25 per share, net to the seller in cash, without interest and less any required withholding taxes.
     As previously disclosed, Molex and Woodhead intend to effect a merger pursuant to which Woodhead will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Molex. In the merger, each share of Woodhead's outstanding common stock will be cancelled and (except for shares held by Molex, its subsidiaries or stockholders properly exercising statutory appraisal rights under Delaware law) will be converted into the right to receive $19.25 per share, net to the seller in cash, without interest and less any required withholding taxes. Thereafter, Woodhead's common stock will cease to be traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. It is currently anticipated that the merger will be implemented on an expedited basis pursuant to the short-form procedure available under Delaware law.
About Molex
     Molex is based in Lisle, Illinois and is a 68-year-old manufacturer of electronic components, including electrical and fiber optic interconnection products and systems, switches and integrated products, with 58 plants in 19 countries throughout the world.
About Woodhead
     Woodhead, based in Deerfield, Illinois, develops, manufactures and markets network and electrical infrastructure products engineered for performance in harsh, demanding, and hazardous industrial environments and operates from 21 locations in 10 countries spanning North America, Europe and Asia/Pacific.
Notice to Investors
:
     This announcement is for informational purposes only and is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell securities. The tender offer was made pursuant to a tender offer statement on Schedule TO (including the Offer to Purchase, Letter of Transmittal and other related tender offer materials), as amended, filed by Molex and MLX Acquisition Corp. with the SEC. Stockholders should read the tender offer statement (and related materials), as amended, because they contain important information. Those materials may be obtained for no charge on the SEC's Web site at www.sec.gov.
 
Neil Lefort, Senior Vice President, Molex Incorporated, telephone (630) 527-4344
For further information, please contact:
Molex is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (MOLX and MOLXA) in the United States and on the London Stock Exchange. The Company's voting common stock (MOLX) is included in the S&P 500 Index.
Editor's note:

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     Lisle, IL, August 10, 2006  Molex Incorporated (Nasdaq: MOLX and MOLXA) announced today that it has completed the final step in the previously reported acquisition of Woodhead Industries, Inc. through the merger of a wholly-owned subsidiary of Molex with Woodhead. As a result of the merger, Woodhead is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Molex. The merger followed the recently-completed tender offer by Molex.
     At the time of the merger, Molex owned over 90% of the outstanding shares of common stock of Woodhead Industries, Inc. In the merger, each share of Woodhead's outstanding common stock was cancelled and (except for shares held by Molex, its subsidiaries or stockholders properly exercising statutory appraisal rights under Delaware law) converted into the right to receive $19.25 per share (the price paid in the tender offer), net to the seller in cash, without interest and less any required withholding taxes.
     Woodhead's common stock has ceased to be traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Information will be mailed to former Woodhead stockholders who did not tender their shares into the offer explaining the steps to be taken to obtain the merger consideration or exercise statutory appraisal rights under Delaware law.
About Molex
     Molex is based in Lisle, Illinois and is a 68-year-old manufacturer of electronic components, including electrical and fiber optic interconnection products and systems, switches and integrated products, with 58 plants in 19 countries throughout the world.
About Woodhead
     Woodhead, based in Deerfield, Illinois, develops, manufacturers and markets networks and electrical infrastructure products engineered for performance in harsh, demanding, and hazardous industrial environments and operates from 21 locations in 10 countries spanning North America, Europe and Asia/Pacific.
Neil Lefort, Senior Vice President, Molex Incorporated, telephone (630) 527-4344
For further information, please contact:


