FILE:MOLX/MOLX-8K-20070618090238.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
     
Item 2.05
Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
.
     On June 18, 2007, Molex Incorporated ("Molex") announced a plan to implement restructuring initiatives designed to reduce costs and improve return on invested capital in connection with the new global organization to be launched on July 1, 2007. Molex currently estimates that the total pre-tax charge related to this restructuring effort will be $100 to $125 million over the fiscal year 2007 fourth quarter and fiscal years 2008 and 2009. Molex expects that the restructuring charge will be made up of headcount reductions, realignment of manufacturing capacity and certain plant closures. Molex expects to take an estimated pre-tax charge of approximately $20 million in the fiscal 2007 fourth quarter related primarily to severance and other employee-related costs. At this time, Molex is not able to make a determination of the estimated amount or range of amounts to be incurred in fiscal years 2008 and 2009 for each major type of cost and the charges and future cash expenditures associated therewith.
     Molex's analysis is preliminary and therefore is subject to change. Molex plans to announce further details in its next earnings release scheduled for Wednesday, August 1, 2007, and as initiatives are finalized. The timing of the implementation of these initiatives and the resulting charges and cash expenditures will be dependent upon a number of factors including Molex's efforts to achieve a phased and efficient transition. Molex currently expects to complete implementation of these actions by the end of fiscal year 2009.
     
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure
.
     On June 18, 2007, Molex issued a press release announcing preliminary estimates of fiscal 2007 fourth quarter results and the restructuring initiatives described above. A copy of the Press Release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
     
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
Statements in this
Form 8-K
that are not historical, including statements regarding the estimates of fiscal 2007 fourth quarter results and Molex's restructuring initiatives, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially from those stated. These risks and uncertainties are set forth in the Press Release. Other risks and uncertainties are set forth in Molex's documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Item 1A of its
Form 10-K
for the year ended June 30, 2006. This report speaks only as of its date and, except to the extent required by law, Molex disclaims any obligation to revise these forward-looking statements or to provide any updates regarding information contained in this release resulting from new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 18, 2007
 

 
Contact: Neil Lefort Senior Vice President (630) 527-4344
Lisle, IL, USA  June 18, 2007  Molex Incorporated (NASDAQ: MOLX and MOLXA), a global electronic components company, today announced a revised outlook for the fiscal fourth quarter ending June 30, 2007, and restructuring charges in connection with the introduction of the new global reorganization.
As the fiscal 2007 fourth quarter ending June 30, 2007 nears completion, revenue for the quarter is now estimated to be in a range of $780 to $810 million. The previous outlook for the quarter provided on April 19, 2007 was for revenue in a range of $810 to $850 million. Earnings per share for the fiscal fourth quarter are estimated to be in a range of $0.30 to $0.34, excluding the impact of the expected restructuring charges mentioned below. The previous outlook for the quarter was for earnings per share in a range of $0.34 to $0.38.
The reduction in estimated revenue and earnings per share is primarily due to lower than expected demand in the mobile phone, consumer and data business, including lingering inventory corrections at some larger customers.
Restructuring Charges and Related Cost Savings
In its release dated April 19, 2007, the Company announced that it was in the process of identifying significant opportunities to reduce costs and to improve return on invested capital in connection with the new global organization to be launched on July 1, 2007. The Company currently estimates that the total pretax charge related to head-count reductions, realignment of manufacturing capacity and certain plant closures will be $100 to $125 million. The Company expects an estimated pretax charge of approximately $20 million in the fiscal 2007 fourth quarter, primarily related to severance and other employee-related costs. The remaining pretax charges of $80 to $105 million will be incurred in the next two fiscal years. Additional details relating to these charges will be provided in the next scheduled earnings release (see below).
The Company expects that when fully implemented, the annualized pretax savings from the restructuring activities will be in a range of $75 to $100 million. Additional details relating to the cost savings will also be provided in the next earnings release.
 
The fiscal 2007 fourth quarter results are scheduled to be announced at approximately 3:00 p.m. CST on Wednesday, August 1. A conference call will be held at 10:15 a.m. CST on Thursday, August 2. The conference call will be held as part of the Annual Analysts meeting in Chicago, which is scheduled to begin at 10:00 a.m. CST on Thursday, August 2.
Access to the conference call and the segments of the Analysts meeting relating to the restructuring charges and related cost savings will be available to those not attending. Further details will be provided.
Forward-Looking Statements
The above estimates are based on preliminary information about the fourth quarter of 2007. As a result, as the Company completes its closing process, actual results could differ from those preliminary estimates. Statements in this release that are not historical are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially from those stated. These risks and uncertainties include those associated with the operation of our business, including the risk that customer demand will decrease either temporarily or permanently, whether due to the Company's actions or the demand for the Company's products, and that the Company may not be able to respond through cost reductions in a timely and effective manner; price cutting, new product introductions and other actions by our competitors; fluctuations in the costs of raw materials that the Company is not able to pass through to customers because of existing contracts or market factors; the challenges attendant to plant closings and restructurings, including the difficulty of predicting plant closing and relocation costs, the difficulty of commencing or increasing production at existing facilities, and the reactions of customers, governmental units, employees and other groups; and the ability to realize cost savings from restructuring activities, as well as difficulty implementing the transition to a New Global Organization. Other risks and uncertainties are set forth in Molex's documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Item 1A of its
Form 10-K/A
for the year ended June 30, 2006. This release speaks only as of its date and Molex disclaims any obligation to revise these forward-looking statements or to provide any updates regarding information contained in this release resulting from new information, future events or otherwise.
Note: The Company's SEC filings, as well as news releases and other supplementary financial data are available on the Company's website at .
www.molex.com
Molex Incorporated is a 68-year-old manufacturer of electronic components, including electrical and fiber optic interconnection products and systems, switches and integrated products, with 65 plants in 20 countries throughout the world.
Molex is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (MOLX and MOLXA) in the United States and on the London Stock Exchange. The Company's voting common stock (MOLX) is included in the S&P 500 Index.
Editor's note:


