FILE:MOLX/MOLX-8K-20080129085549.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
On January 25, 2008, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Molex Incorporated ("Molex") increased the size of the Board to 13 members and elected Joe W. Laymon as a Class I member of the Board. Mr. Laymon, 55, is Group Vice President, Corporate Human Resources and Labor Affairs, for Ford Motor Company. Mr. Laymon previously served on Molex's board from 2002 to 2006. Mr. Laymon joined Ford Motor Company as executive director, Human Resources Business Operations in March 2000 and was promoted to his present position in 2004. Prior to joining Ford, he held senior human resources positions at Xerox Corporation and Eastman Kodak. The Board also appointed Mr. Laymon as a member of the Compensation Committee.
There is no arrangement or understanding with any person pursuant to which Mr. Laymon was selected as a director, and he is not a party to any transaction requiring disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K. Mr. Laymon's compensation for his service as a non-employee director will be consistent with that of Molex's other non-employee directors as described in Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)     Exhibits.
          Exhibit 99.1 Summary of Non-Employee Director Compensation
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
 


