FILE:MOLX/MOLX-8K-20090406172341.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     (b) Dave B. Root, Executive Vice President and President of Molex Incorporated's ("Molex") Commercial Products Division was planning to retire in 2010, and has now decided to accelerate his retirement as a result of the consolidation of our Transportation Products Division and Commercial Products Division as part of our global restructuring plan. As a result of such consolidation, effective March 31, 2009, David B. Root stepped down as President of the Commercial Products Division of Molex Incorporated ("Molex"). Mr. Root will remain employed by Molex until his retirement on December 31, 2009 (the "Separation Date"), during which time he will remain available for consultation with Molex. Effective April 1, 2009 James E. Fleischhacker has taken over as President of the newly consolidated division which will continue to be known as the Commercial Products Division.
     (e) On April 2, 2009, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Molex approved a Separation Agreement in connection with Mr. Root's retirement. Molex and Mr. Root entered into the Separation Agreement on April 6, 2009.
     Under the Separation Agreement, Mr. Root will be entitled to receive the following material pay and benefits: (i) continued base annual salary less applicable tax withholdings and current benefits until the Separation Date; (ii) a severance payment in the monthly amount of $19,734.72, less applicable U.S. tax withholdings during the period of 54 months beginning on the first day of the month that is at least six months after the Separation Date; (iii) participation in the Molex Retiree Medical Plan; and (iv) employment benefits associated with his current expatriate assignment in Singapore, which will terminate as of June 30, 2009. The Separation Agreement also provides that any non-vested or unexercised stock options (or any other non-vested equity awards) will be cancelled effective on the Separation Date.
     Molex is not obligated to make payments due under the Separation Agreement unless Mr. Root complies with the confidentiality, non-solicitation, non-competition and non-disparagement covenants set forth in the Separation Agreement following his retirement.
     This description is qualified in its entirety by the Separation Agreement which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
     10.1 Separation Agreement between David B. Root and Molex Incorporated dated April 6, 2009.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 6, 2009
 

Exhibit 10.1
     This Separation Agreement (the "Agreement") is between David B. Root for and on behalf of himself, his spouse, family, heirs, assigns, legal representatives, agents and attorneys (jointly, "Root"), and Molex Incorporated and all of its subsidiaries, successors, divisions, affiliates, directors, past and present officers, benefit plans, benefit plan administrators, trustees, fiduciaries, insurers, employees and agents (jointly, the "Employer").
1. .
Agreement
     If Root signs and does not revoke this Agreement, he will receive:
2. .
Separation Benefits
 
 
      Root agrees that during the Separation Period, he shall comply with the following provisions:
3. .
Root's Obligations
 
     In exchange for the benefits set forth in this Agreement to which Root would not otherwise be entitled, he is waiving and releasing all known or unknown claims and causes of action he has or may have, as of the day he signs this Agreement, against the Employer arising out of or relating to his employment, including his separation from employment. The claims Root is releasing include, but are not limited to, any and all allegations that the Employer:
4. 
General Release
.
 
 
     Excluded from the General Release above are any claims or rights which cannot be waived by law. Also excluded from the General Release is Root's right to file a charge with an administrative agency (such as the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission) or participate in any agency investigation. Root is, however, waiving his right to recover money in connection with such a charge or investigation. Root is also waiving his right to recover money in connection with a charge filed by any other individual or by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or any other federal or state agency.
5. 
Exclusions From General Release
.
     A "covenant not to sue" is a legal term which means Root promises not to file a lawsuit in court. It is different from the General Release of claims set forth above. Besides waiving and releasing the claims covered by the General Release, Root further agrees never to sue, either alone or, directly or indirectly, in conjunction with any other individual entity, or person, the Employer or its predecessors, successors, parents, joint ventures, subsidiaries, partners and assigns, as well as its past and present officers, directors, employees, shareholders, owners, benefit plans, benefit plan administrators, trustees, fiduciaries, counsel, insurers, attorneys and agents, in any forum for any reason, including but not limited to claims, laws or theories covered by the General Release, and Root represents and warrants that he has not filed any such claim to date. Notwithstanding this Covenant Not To Sue, Root may bring a claim against the Employer to enforce this Agreement or to challenge the validity of the General Release under the ADEA, as amended.
6. 
Covenant Not To Sue
.
     If Root sues the Employer in violation of this Agreement:
 
(As indicated above, it would not violate any part of this Agreement to sue the Employer to enforce this Agreement, or to challenge the validity of the general Release under the ADEA.)
     Root also agrees that he:
7. 
Employee Acknowledgments
.
     Root agrees that he will not disclose, directly or indirectly, the terms of this Agreement and shall keep such terms confidential, including but not limited to the fact and amount(s) of the payments set forth in this Agreement, except that he may make necessary disclosures to his immediate family, attorney(s), tax advisor(s) or as may be required by law; provided, however, if this Agreement is required to be filed with the US Securities Exchange Commission and thereby becomes public information, such nondisclosure provision shall not apply. The benefits set forth in this Agreement are contingent on Root keeping the confidentiality promise contained in this Section. Root also acknowledges the Employer's right to enforce this confidentiality provision in any court of competent jurisdiction. Root further agree that if he breaches this confidentiality provision, the Employer will be irreparably harmed as a matter of law and will be entitled to immediate injunctive relief, plus its reasonable attorneys' fees incurred in enforcing this provision.
8. 
Confidentiality
.
     The fact and terms of this Agreement are not an admission by the Employer of liability or other wrongdoing under any law.
9. 
Non-Admissions
.
     Root agrees that:
10. 
Additional Employee Acknowledgments
.
 
     After Root signs this Agreement, he will have seven (7) days to revoke it if he changes his mind. If Root wants to revoke the Agreement, he should deliver a written revocation to Ana G. Rodriguez within seven (7) days after he signed it. If Root revokes this Agreement, he will not receive the benefits described in Section 2. However, his revocation of this Agreement will not affect his eligibility, or that of his spouse, to elect continued medical or dental coverage under COBRA, but he will be required to pay the same premiums as any other participant, and the coverage will be limited to the period provided by COBRA. Root's revocation will not affect his entitlement to any benefit to which he is otherwise entitled under the terms of any benefit plan or applicable law.
11. .
Revocation
      If any part of this Agreement is found to be invalid, the rest of the Agreement will be enforceable.
12. .
Severability
      This is the entire Agreement between Root and the Employer regarding the separation of his employment with the Employer and resolves all matters, claims and disputes between Root and the Employer. Other than what is provided in this Agreement, Root is not entitled to receive any other benefits and the Employer is not obligated to provide any other benefits.
13. .
Complete Agreement
 
     This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument.
14. .
Counterparts
     This Agreement shall be effective on the eighth day after Root signs this Agreement if he does not revoke it before then.
15. .
Effective Date


