FILE:MOLX/MOLX-8K-20110330152101.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On March 25, 2011, Molex Incorporated (the "Company") and various other parties entered into an Amendment No. 2 to Credit Agreement ("Amendment No. 2"), which amended the Credit Agreement dated as of June 25, 2009 among the Company, various lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (such Credit Agreement, as so amended, the "Amended Credit Agreement").
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the aggregate amount of the lenders' commitments increased to $350,000,000. In addition, the Company may, no more than twice during the term of the Amended Credit Agreement, request increases in the aggregate amount of the lenders' commitments by a total of up to $175,000,000 (which, assuming existing lenders agreed to increase their commitments and/or new lenders provided commitments, could increase the aggregate amount of the commitments under the Credit Agreement to up to $525,000,000). The Amended Credit Agreement has subfacilities for up to $75,000,000 of letters of credit, $50,000,000 of swing line loans and $200,000,000 of loans and/or letters of credit in agreed-upon foreign currencies. The Amended Credit Agreement is repayable on maturity in March 2016.
The obligations of the Company and any subsidiary borrower under the Amended Credit Agreement are guaranteed by substantially all of the Company's domestic subsidiaries and the obligations of any subsidiary borrower under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by the Company. Molex Japan Co. Ltd. currently is the only subsidiary designated as a subsidiary borrower under the Amended Credit Agreement.
The covenants in the Amended Credit Agreement were revised to (a) increase the amount of liens, debt, investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions that may be incurred or made by the Company and its subsidiaries; (b) remove the requirement that the Company and its subsidiaries maintain a minimum amount of liquidity; and (c) tighten the leverage covenant, which requires the Company to maintain a ratio of total debt to EBITDA of not more than 2.50:1.00.
The foregoing descriptions of Amendment No. 2 and the Amended Credit Agreement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the complete terms and conditions of such documents. Copies of Amendment No. 2 and the Amended Credit Agreement are filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1.
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
:
Forward-looking statements made in this Current Report on
Form 8-K
, reflect the company's current views with respect to future events and performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. The company's performance is also subject to factors identified in the company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
The information described above under Item 1.01 is incorporated herein by reference.
The description herein is qualified in its entirety by the Amended Credit Agreement filed as an exhibit hereto.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
DATE: March 30, 2011
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
EXECUTION VERSION
     This Amendment (this "Amendment") is made as of March 25, 2011 by and among Molex Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A., individually and as administrative agent (the "Administrative Agent"), and the other financial institutions signatory hereto.
     A. The Company, the Subsidiary Borrowers party thereto, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders are party to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of June 24, 2009 (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof, the "Credit Agreement"). Unless otherwise specified herein, capitalized terms used in this Amendment shall have the meanings ascribed to them by the Credit Agreement.
     B. The Company, the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders wish to amend the Credit Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth below.
     Now, therefore, in consideration of the mutual execution hereof and other good and valuable consideration, the parties hereto agree as follows:
          1. . Upon the Second Amendment Effective Date (as defined below), the Credit Agreement is amended to effect all modifications thereto reflected in Exhibit A hereto, including all Exhibits and Schedules thereto.
Amendment to Credit Agreement
          2. . Each Lender hereby agrees that notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Credit Agreement, including Section 2.18, the Borrowers may make the payments of principal, interest and fees on a non-ratable basis among the Lenders as contemplated by Section 4(g) hereof.
Certain Payments
          3. . The Company represents and warrants that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
          (a) The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of this Amendment have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and that this Amendment and the Credit Agreement as amended hereby (the "Amended Credit Agreement") are legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their respective terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar law affecting creditors' rights generally;
          (b) Each of the representations and warranties contained in the Credit Agreement (treating this Amendment as a Credit Document for purposes thereof) is true and correct in all material respects (except that any representation
 
or warranty which is already qualified as to materiality or by reference to Material Adverse Effect shall be true and correct in all respects) on and as of the date hereof as if made on the date hereof (except any such representation or warranty that expressly relates to or is made expressly as of a specific earlier date, in which case such representation or warranty shall be true and correct in all material respects (except that any representation or warranty which is already qualified as to materiality or by reference to Material Adverse Effect shall be true and correct in all respects) with respect to or as of such specific earlier date); and
          (c) No Default has occurred and is continuing.
          4. . This Amendment shall become effective on the date (the "Second Amendment Effective Date") on which each of the following conditions has been satisfied:
Effective Date
          (a) the execution and delivery hereof by the Company, the Administrative Agent and each Lender;
          (b) the execution and delivery by the Company and each of the Subsidiary Guarantors of a Reaffirmation of Guaranty substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto;
          (c) the Administrative Agent shall have received a favorable written opinion (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the Second Amendment Effective Date) of Mayer Brown LLP, special counsel for the Borrowers, and of Tokyo Aoyama Aoki Koma Law Office Baker & McKenzie GJBJ, special Japanese counsel for Molex Japan, in each case in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and covering such matters relating to the Borrowers, this Amendment, the Amended Credit Agreement, the Designation Letter referenced below and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request (and the Company hereby requests such counsel to deliver such opinions);
          (d) the Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and, to the extent such concept is applicable, good standing of the Company and Molex Japan, the authorization of this Amendment, the Amended Credit Agreement, the Designation Letter referenced below and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby and any other legal matters relating to the Company and Molex Japan, this Amendment, the Amended Credit Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel;
          (e) the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall have received all fees and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the Second Amendment Effective Date, including, to the extent invoiced, reimbursement or
 
payment of all out of pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Company under the Credit Agreement;
          (f) the Administrative Agent shall have received copies of all Governmental Authority and third party approvals necessary or, in the reasonable discretion of the Administrative Agent, advisable in connection with this Amendment and the transactions contemplated hereby and the continuing operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries;
          (g) on the Second Amendment Effective Date, the Company shall have (i) borrowed and prepaid Loans so that each Lender has a pro rata share (after giving effect to this Amendment and such borrowings and prepayments) of each Borrowing (and, as applicable, the Company shall have paid any related breakage costs and/or otherwise compensated the Lenders for funding losses related to new Loans or the repayment of old Loans);
          (h) the Administrative Agent shall have received a Designation Letter for Molex Japan;
          (i) the Lenders shall have received (i) satisfactory audited consolidated financial statements of the Company for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2010 and (ii) satisfactory unaudited interim consolidated financial statements of the Company for each quarterly period ended subsequent to June 30, 2010; , that any such financial statements shall be deemed to have been delivered if such financial statements, or one or more annual or quarterly reports containing such information, shall have been posted by the Administrative Agent on an IntraLinks or similar site to which the Lenders have been granted access or such reports shall be available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission at or on the Company's website at and the Company has given notice that such reports are so available (and the Company hereby gives such notice); and
provided
http://www.sec.gov
http://www.molex.com
          (j) the Lenders shall have received such other documents and instruments as are customary for transactions of this type or as they may reasonably request.
          In the event the Second Amendment Effective Date has not occurred on or before March 30, 2011, this Amendment shall not become operative and shall be of no force or effect.
          5. .
Miscellaneous
          (a) Except as specifically amended or waived above, the Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents shall remain in full force and effect and are hereby ratified and confirmed.
          (b) The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of the
 
Administrative Agent or any Lender under the Credit Agreement or any Credit Document, or constitute a waiver of any provision of the Credit Agreement or any Credit Document, except as specifically set forth herein. Upon the effectiveness of this Amendment, each reference in the Credit Agreement to "this Agreement", "hereunder", "hereof", "herein" or words of similar import shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
          (c) Section headings in this Amendment are included herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a part of this Amendment for any other purposes.
          (d) This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original but all such counterparts shall constitute one and the same instrument. Delivery of an executed signature page of this Amendment by facsimile transmission or other electronic transmission shall be effective as delivery of manually executed counterpart hereof.
          6. . The Company hereby affirms its obligation under Section 9.03 of the Credit Agreement to reimburse the Administrative Agent for all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation, negotiation, execution and delivery of this Amendment, including but not limited to the reasonable and documented fees, charges and disbursements of attorneys for the Administrative Agent with respect thereto.
Costs and Expenses
          7. . This Amendment shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of Illinois.
Governing Law
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment as of the date and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
          Each of the undersigned (a) acknowledges receipt of a copy of Amendment No. 2 to Credit Agreement (the "Amendment"), amending the Credit Agreement dated as of June 24, 2009 (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"), (b) consents to the Amendment and each of the transactions referenced therein, (c) hereby reaffirms its obligations, as applicable, under the Parent Guaranty and the Subsidiary Guaranty and (d) agrees that all references in any Credit Document to the "Credit Agreement" shall hereafter mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended by the Amendment. Capitalized terms used herein, but not otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
Dated as of March __, 2011
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
:
SCHEDULES
Schedule 1.01  Pricing Schedule Schedule 2.01  Commitments Schedule 3.13  Subsidiaries Schedule 6.01  Existing Indebtedness Schedule 6.02  Existing Liens Schedule 6.04  Existing Investments Schedule 6.08  Existing Restrictions
:
EXHIBITS
Exhibit A  Form of Assignment and Assumption Exhibit B  Form of Designation Letter Exhibit C  Form of Termination Letter Exhibit D  Mandatory Costs Rate Exhibit E  Form of U.S. Tax Certificate
 
          CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of June 24, 2009, among MOLEX INCORPORATED, the Subsidiary Borrowers party hereto, the Lenders party hereto, and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Administrative Agent.
          The parties hereto agree as follows:
          SECTION 1.01. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms
          "", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
ABR
          "" means either (a) the assets constituting a business, division, facility, product line or line of business of any Person not already a Subsidiary or (b) all or a portion of the capital stock of any such Person, which Person shall, as a result of an acquisition or mergerbecome a Subsidiary of the Company (or shall be merged with the Company or a Subsidiary, provided that the Company shall be the surviving Person of any merger involving the Company and a Subsidiary shall be the surviving Person of any other such merger).
Acquired Entity or Business
,
          "" means JPMorgan, in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders hereunder.
Administrative Agent
          "" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
          "" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
          "" means this Credit Agreement.
Agreement
          "" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day / of 1% and (c) the Eurocurrency Rate for deposits in Dollars for a one month Interest Period on such day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day) 1%, that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Eurocurrency Rate for any Business Day shall be based on the rate appearing on the Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page 1 (or on any successor or substitute page of such page) at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time on such day. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the Eurocurrency Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the Eurocurrency Rate, respectively.
Alternate Base Rate
plus
1
2
plus
provided
 
          "" means, with respect to any Loan or any other amount payable hereunder or any Letter of Credit, the Borrower that is the primary obligor on such Loan or other amount or that is the account party with respect to such Letter of Credit.
Applicable Borrower
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.02(e).
Applicable Lending Installation
          "" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the total Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment; that, solely for purposes of Section 2.22, when a Defaulting Lender shall exist, "Applicable Percentage" shall mean the percentage of the total Commitments (disregarding any Defaulting Lender's Commitment) represented by such Lender's Commitment. If the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments and to any Lender's status as a Defaulting Lender at the time of determination.
Applicable Percentage
provided
          "" means, for any day, with respect to any ABR or Eurocurrency Loan or with respect to the commitment fees payable hereunder, the applicable rate per annum set forth on under the caption "Eurocurrency Spread", "ABR Spread" or "Commitment Fee Rate", as the case may be, based upon the Leverage Ratio.
Applicable Rate
Schedule 1.01
          "" means any sale, transfer or other disposition of any asset of the Company or any Subsidiary in a single transaction or in a series of related transactions (other than (a) the sale or lease of inventory or products in the ordinary course or the sale of obsolete or worn out property in the ordinary course and (b) the sale of Permitted Investments in the ordinary course of business).
Asset Disposition
          "" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 9.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Exhibit A
          "" means the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of the Maturity Date and the date of termination of the Commitments.
Availability Period
          "" means, without duplication, the cash deposit balances and cash equivalents of the Company and its Subsidiaries, in each case only to the extent that such balances and cash equivalents are unrestricted and unencumbered; , , that in no event shall the cash deposit balances or cash equivalents of any Subsidiary constitute Available Cash to the extent that such Subsidiary or any direct or indirect parent of such Subsidiary would be prohibited by applicable law, by its formation documents, by contract or otherwise from transferring such cash deposit balances or cash equivalents (whether in the form of a loan or a dividend or distribution or any combination thereof) to the Company or an intermediate parent entity. For the avoidance of doubt, all Permitted Investments shall be considered cash equivalents for purposes of this definition.
Available Cash
provided
however
          "" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Board
 
          "" means the Company or a Subsidiary Borrower, as the context requires, and "" means the Company and the Subsidiary Borrowers collectively.
Borrower
Borrowers
          "" means (a) Revolving Loans of the same Type, made, converted or continued on the same date to the same Applicable Borrower and, in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect or (b) a Swingline Loan.
Borrowing
          "" means a request by the Company for a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03.
Borrowing Request
          "" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; that, (a) when used in connection with a Eurocurrency Loan, the term "Business Day" shall mean any day on which banks are generally open in London for the conduct of substantially all of their commercial lending activities and, in the case of Eurocurrency Loans denominated in Euros, for the sale and purchase of Euros which is also a day on which the TARGET (Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer) payment system is open for settlement of payment in Euros and (b) when used in relation to any funding, disbursement, settlement or payment in a currency other than Dollars or Euros, the term "Business Day" shall mean any such day on which banks are also open for foreign exchange business in the principal financial center of the country of such currency.
Business Day
provided
          "" and "" mean the lawful currency of Canada.
Canadian Dollars
Cdn$
          "" means, for any period, (a) all expenditures during such period for the purchase or other acquisition of assets that should be included in "property, plant and equipment" or in a similar fixed asset account on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries prepared in accordance with GAAP (b) the sum, without duplication, of (1) expenditures during such period made in connection with the replacement, substitution or restoration of fixed assets to the extent financed (i) from insurance proceeds (or other similar recoveries) paid on account of the loss of or damage to the assets being replaced or restored or (ii) with awards of compensation arising from the taking by eminent domain or condemnation of the assets being replaced and (2) up to $15,000,000 in cash proceeds from other dispositions (other than in Sale and Leaseback Transactions) of fixed assets during such period.
Capital Expenditures
minus
          "" of any Person means the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, and the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligations
          "" means (a) the acquisition of ownership, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any Person or group (within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder as in effect on the date hereof), other than Permitted Holders (as defined below), of Equity Interests representing more than 30% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued
Change in Control
 
and outstanding Equity Interests of the Company; (b) occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of the Company by Persons who were neither (i) nominated by the board of directors of the Company nor (ii) appointed by directors so nominated; or (c) the acquisition of direct or indirect Control of the Company by any Person or group other than Permitted Holders. For purposes of the foregoing, "" means any descendant of Frederick August Krehbiel (deceased), any spouse of such a descendant, any trust solely for the benefit of one or more of the foregoing and any partnership or other entity Controlled by any of the foregoing.
Permitted Holders
          "" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement (or with respect to any Lender, if later, the date on which such Lender becomes a Lender), of any of the following: (a) the adoption of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) compliance by any Lender or any Issuing Bank (or, for purposes of Section 2.15(b), by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement; that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines or directives thereunder or issued in connection therewith shall in each case be deemed to be a "Change in Law", regardless of the date enacted, adopted or issued.
Change in Law
provided
          "", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are Revolving Loans or Swingline Loans.
Class
          "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
          "" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Revolving Loans and to acquire participations in Letters of Credit and Swingline Loans hereunder, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to Section 2.09 and (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 9.04. The initial amount of each Lender's Commitment is set forth on , or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable. The aggregate amount of the Lenders' Commitments as of the Second Amendment Effective Date is $350,000,000.
Commitment
Schedule 2.01
          "" means Molex Incorporated, a Delaware corporation.
Company
          "" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the legal power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "Controlling" and "Controlled" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
          "" means this Agreement and, after the execution and delivery thereof pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, each promissory note, if any, delivered pursuant
Credit Documents
 
to Section 2.10(e), each Letter of Credit, the Subsidiary Guaranty, the Parent Guaranty and each amendment hereof.
          "" means the Borrowers and each Subsidiary Guarantor.
Credit Parties
          "" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
          "" means any Lender, as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent, that has (a) failed to comply with its obligation to fund any portion of its Loans or participations in Letters of Credit or Swingline Loans within three Business Days of the date required to be funded by it hereunder, (b) notified the Company, the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank, the Swingline Lender or any other Lender in writing that it does not intend to comply with any of its funding obligations under this Agreement or has made a public statement to the effect that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations under this Agreement or under other agreements generally in which it commits to extend credit, (c) failed, within three Business Days after request by the Administrative Agent, to confirm that it will comply with the terms of this Agreement relating to its obligations to fund prospective Loans and participations in then outstanding Letters of Credit and Swingline Loans (provided, however, that a Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender under this clause (c) upon its providing such confirmation), (d) otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within three Business Days of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute, or (e) (i) become or is insolvent or (ii) become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee or custodian appointed for it, or has taken any corporate action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in, any such proceeding or appointment. No Lender shall be a Defaulting Lender solely by virtue of the ownership or acquisition by a Governmental Authority or instrumentality thereof of any Equity Interest in such Lender or parent company thereof or the exercise of Control over such Lender or any Person Controlling such Lender by a Governmental Authority or instrumentality thereof.
Defaulting Lender
          "" means a letter in substantially the form of hereto.
Designation Letter
Exhibit B
          "" or "" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
          "" means, on any date of determination (a) with respect to any amount in Dollars, such amount, and (b) with respect to any amount in any Foreign Currency, the equivalent in Dollars of such amount, determined by the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 1.05 using the Exchange Rate with respect to such Foreign Currency at the time in effect under the provisions of such Section.
Dollar Equivalent
          "" means each Subsidiary that is incorporated under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia.
Domestic Subsidiary
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.10 (b).
Domestic Underfunding Amount
 
          "" means, for any applicable computation period, Net Income from continuing operations for such period, , to the extent included in the determination of such Net Income (but without duplication), (a) income and franchise taxes paid or accrued, (b) interest expense, (c) amortization and depreciation, (d) non-cash stock-based compensation expense, (e) the first $165,000,000 of cash restructuring charges incurred during the period from April 1, 2008 through June 30, 2010 in connection with the Restructuring, (f) non-cash impairment charges, (g) non-cash restructuring charges incurred in connection with the Restructuring and (h) other non-recurring non-cash charges, losses and expenses properly deductible in determining Net Income for such period , to the extent included in the determination of such Net Income, (i) non-cash gains or income arising in connection with the Restructuring and (j) other non-recurring non-cash gains or income for such period. For purposes of the computation of the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio and Leverage Ratio (a) for any period during which an Acquired Entity or Business was acquired, EBITDA shall be calculated on a pro forma basis as if such Acquired Entity or Business had been acquired (and any related Indebtedness incurred) on the first day of such period and (b) for any period during which a Subsidiary or business was disposed of, EBITDA shall be calculated on a pro forma basis as if such Subsidiary or business had been disposed of on the first day of such period.
EBITDA
plus
minus
          "" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 4.01 are satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02).
Effective Date
          "" means Indebtedness of a Subsidiary indirectly owed (through a bank or other financial institution acting as an intermediary) to another Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of the People's Republic of China.
Entrust Indebtedness
          "" means all laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions, notices or binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material or to health and safety matters.
Environmental Laws
          "" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Company or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
          "" means shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity ownership interests in a Person, and any warrants, options or other rights entitling the holder thereof to purchase or acquire any such equity interest.
Equity Interests
          "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
 
          "" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with the Company, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
          "" means (a) any "reportable event", as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30 day notice period is waived); (b) the failure of a Plan to meet the "minimum funding standard" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(c) of the Code or Section 303(c) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) the incurrence by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate of any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Plan; (e) the appointment of a trustee to administer any Plan under Section 4042 of ERISA; or (f) the incurrence by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA.
ERISA Event
          "" or "" means the single currency unit of the Participating Member States.
Euro
          "", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Eurocurrency Rate.
Eurocurrency
          "" means, (a) with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in Dollars or any Foreign Currency other than Euro for any Interest Period, the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the Quotation Day for such Interest Period by reference to the British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rates for deposits in the currency of such Borrowing (as reflected on the Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page 1 (or on any successor or substitute page of such page)), for a period equal to such Interest Period and (b) with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in Euros for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on the Reuters Screen EURIBOR01 Page (it being understood that this rate is the Euro interbank offered rate (known as the "EURIBOR Rate") sponsored by the Banking Federation of the European Union and the Financial Markets Association) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the Quotation Day for such Interest Period, as the rate for deposits in Euros with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. To the extent that an interest rate is not ascertainable pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this definition, the "Eurocurrency Rate" shall be the rate at which JPMorgan offers to place deposits in the currency of such Borrowing for such Interest Period to first-class banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the Quotation Day for such Interest Period.
Eurocurrency Rate
          "" has the meaning set forth in .
Event of Default
Article VII
          "" means on any day, for purposes of determining the Dollar Equivalent of any currency other than Dollars, the rate at which such currency may be exchanged into Dollars at 11:00 a.m. Local Time on such day on the Reuters Currency pages, if available,
Exchange Rate
 
for such currency. In the event that such rate does not appear on any Reuters Currency pages, the Exchange Rate shall be determined by reference to such other publicly available service for displaying exchange rates as may be agreed upon by the Administrative Agent and the Company, or, in the absence of such an agreement, such Exchange Rate shall instead be the arithmetic average of the spot rates of exchange of the Administrative Agent in the market where its foreign currency exchange operations in respect of such currency are then being conducted, at or about such time as the Administrative Agent shall elect after determining that such rates shall be the basis for determining the Exchange Rate, on such date for the purchase of Dollars for delivery two Business Days later; that if at the time of any such determination, for any reason, no such spot rate is being quoted, the Administrative Agent may use any reasonable method it deems appropriate to determine such rate, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
provided
          "" means, if on such date any outstanding Loan or Letter of Credit is (or any Loan or Letter of Credit that has been requested at such time would be) denominated in a currency other than Dollars, each of:
Exchange Rate Date
          (a) the last Business Day of each calendar month,
          (b) if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, any Business Day designated as an Exchange Rate Date by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion, and
          (c) each date (with such date to be reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent) that is on or about the date of (i) a Borrowing Request or an Interest Election Request with respect to any Revolving Borrowing or (ii) each request for the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit.
          "" means, with respect to any payment made by any Borrower under this Agreement, any of the following Taxes imposed on or with respect to a Recipient: (a) income or franchise Taxes imposed on (or measured by) net income by the United States of America, or by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, (b) any branch profits Taxes imposed by the United States of America or any similar Taxes imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Applicable Borrower is organized and (c) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Company under Section 2.19(b)), any U.S. Federal withholding tax that is imposed by a law in effect at the time such Non-U.S. Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (or designates a new lending office) or is attributable to such Non-U.S. Lender's failure to comply with Section 2.17(f), except to the extent that such Non-U.S. Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Applicable Borrower with respect to such withholding Taxes pursuant to Section 2.17(a). For the avoidance of doubt, Excluded Taxes shall not by virtue of the foregoing clause (c) include withholding taxes imposed on amounts payable to a Lender by or for the account of a Borrower that was not a Borrower on the date such Lender became a party to this Agreement.
Excluded Taxes
          "" means any Subsidiary which is not a Credit Party.
External Subsidiary
 
          "" means, at any time, the amount at such time of outstanding receivables or similar obligations sold by Molex Japan pursuant to a factoring agreement with a non-affiliated third party that would be characterized as principal if such factoring agreement were structured as a secured lending transaction rather than as a purchase of receivables.
Factoring Indebtedness
          "" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code, as of the date of this Agreement and any regulations or official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
          "" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
          "" means the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer, corporate treasury manager or controller of the Company.
Financial Officer
     "" means January 11, 2010.
First Amendment Effective Date
          "" means Fitch Ratings Ltd.
Fitch
          "" means the ratio, determined as of the end of each fiscal quarter of the Company for the most-recently ended four fiscal quarters, of (a) EBITDA for such period any Capital Expenditures made during such period to (b) Total Interest Expense for such period, all calculated for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
minus
          "" means (a) with respect to any Revolving Loan, Euros, Sterling, Canadian Dollars, Japanese yen and any other currency acceptable to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders that is freely available, freely transferable and freely convertible into Dollars and in which dealings in deposits are carried on in the London interbank market and (b) with respect to any Letter of Credit, any currency acceptable to the Administrative Agent that is freely available, freely transferable and freely convertible into Dollars, and agreed to by the Issuing Bank issuing such Letter of Credit.
Foreign Currency
          "" means any plan, fund (including any superannuation fund) or other similar program established or maintained outside the United States by the Company or any Subsidiary primarily for the benefit of employees of the Company or any Subsidiary residing outside the United States, which plan, fund or other similar program provides, or results in, retirement income, a deferral of income in contemplation of retirement or payments to be made upon termination or severance of employment, and which plan is not subject to ERISA or the Code.
Foreign Pension Plan
 
          "" means any Subsidiary that is incorporated or organized under the laws of any jurisdiction other than the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia.
Foreign Subsidiary
          "" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
GAAP
          "" means the government of the United States of America, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
          "" of or by any Person (the "") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Indebtedness or obligation; , that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business. The amount of any Guarantee made by any guarantor shall be deemed to be the lower of (a) the stated or determinable amount of the primary obligation in respect of which such Guarantee is made and (b) the maximum amount for which such guarantor may be liable pursuant to the terms of the instrument embodying such Guarantee, unless (in the case of a primary obligation that is not Indebtedness) such primary obligation and the maximum amount for which such guarantor may be liable are not stated or determinable, in which case the amount of such Guarantee shall be such guarantor's maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the Company in good faith.
Guarantee
guarantor
primary obligor
provided
          "" shall have the meaning assigned that term in the Parent Guaranty and the Subsidiary Guaranty.
Guaranteed Parties
          "" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
          "" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale
Indebtedness
 
or other title retention agreements relating to property acquired by such Person, (d) all obligations of such Person in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (excluding current accounts payable incurred in the ordinary course of business), (e) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the Indebtedness secured thereby has been assumed (it being understood that if such Person has not assumed or otherwise become personally liable for any such Indebtedness, the amount of the Indebtedness of such Person in connection therewith shall be limited to the lesser of the face amount of such Indebtedness or the fair market value of all property of such Person securing such Indebtedness), (f) all Guarantees by such Person of Indebtedness of others, (g) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (h) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person as an account party in respect of letters of credit and letters of guaranty, (i) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of bankers' acceptances and (j) all Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness provide that such Person is not liable therefor.
          "" means (a) Taxes (other than Excluded Taxes) and (b) Other Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
          "" means a request by the Company to convert or continue a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.08.
Interest Election Request
          "" means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan, the last day of each March, June, September and December (or, in the case of a Swingline Loan, such other day as may be agreed between the Company and the Swingline Lender) and (b) with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months' duration after the first day of such Interest Period.
Interest Payment Date
          "" means with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months thereafter, as the Company may elect; , that (a) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (b) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurocurrency Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
Interest Period
provided
 
          "" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
          "" means JPMorgan and each other Lender reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent that agrees in writing with the Company to issue Letters of Credit, in each case, in its capacity as an issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder, and its successors in such capacity as provided in Section 2.06(i). Any Issuing Bank may, in its discretion, arrange for one or more Letters of Credit to be issued by Affiliates of such Issuing Bank, in which case the term "Issuing Bank" shall include any such Affiliate with respect to Letters of Credit issued by such Affiliate. With respect to any Letter of Credit, "Issuing Bank" shall mean the issuer thereof.
Issuing Bank
          "" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, a national banking association, and its successors.
JPMorgan
          "" means a payment made by any Issuing Bank pursuant to a Letter of Credit.
LC Disbursement
          "" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the aggregate undrawn amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit at such time plus (b) the aggregate amount of all LC Disbursements that have not yet been reimbursed by or on behalf of the Applicable Borrower at such time. The LC Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total LC Exposure at such time.
LC Exposure
          "" means the Persons listed on and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption or pursuant to Section 2.09(d) hereto, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption. Unless the context otherwise requires, the term "Lenders" includes the Swingline Lender.
Lenders
Schedule 2.01
          "" means any letter of credit issued pursuant to this Agreement.
Letter of Credit
          "" means, at any time, the ratio of Total Debt at such time to EBITDA for the most recently completed four fiscal quarters of the Company, all calculated for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Leverage Ratio
          "" means, with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, charge or security interest in, on or of such asset, (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement (or any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing) relating to such asset (but excluding the interest of a lessor under an operating lease) and (c) in the case of securities, any purchase option, call or similar right of a third party with respect to such securities.
Lien
          "" means the loans made by the Lenders to the Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement.
Loans
          "" means (a) with respect to a Loan, Borrowing or Letter of Credit denominated in Dollars, New York City time and (b) with respect to a Loan, Borrowing or Letter of Credit denominated in any Foreign Currency, London time.
Local Time
 
          "" means the rate calculated in accordance with the formula and in the manner set forth in hereto.
Mandatory Costs Rate
Exhibit D
          "" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, assets, operations, property or financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of any Credit Party to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement or any other Credit Document or (c) the rights of or benefits available to the Lenders under this Agreement or any other Credit Document.
Material Adverse Effect
          "" means Indebtedness (other than the Loans and Letters of Credit) or obligations in respect of one or more Swap Agreements of any one or more of the Company and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $10,000,000. For purposes of determining Material Indebtedness, the "principal amount" of the obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary in respect of any Swap Agreement at any time shall be the maximum aggregate amount (giving effect to any netting agreements) that the Company or such Subsidiary would be required to pay if such Swap Agreement were terminated at such time.
Material Indebtedness
          "" means a Domestic Subsidiary held directly by the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Domestic Subsidiary which has (as of the date of determination) assets having a book value in excess of $5,000,000 or which generated in excess of $5,000,000 of net income over the four fiscal quarter period most recently ended prior to the time of computation.
Material Subsidiary
          "" means March [__], 2016.
Maturity Date
          "" means Molex Japan Co., Ltd., a company organized under the laws of Japan.
Molex Japan
          "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
          "" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
          "" means, for any period, the consolidated net income of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such period as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Net Income
          "" means a Lender that is not a U.S. Person.
Non-U.S. Lender
          "" of a Person means (a) any repurchase obligation or liability of such Person with respect to accounts or notes receivable sold by such Person, (b) any liability under any Sale and Leaseback Transaction other than Capital Lease Obligations, (c) any liability under any so-called "synthetic lease" arrangement or transaction entered into by such Person, or (d) any obligation arising with respect to any other transaction which is the functional equivalent of or takes the place of borrowing but which does not constitute a liability on the balance sheet of such Person.
Off-Balance Sheet Liability
          "" means, with respect to any Recipient, Taxes imposed as a result of a present or former connection between such Recipient and the jurisdiction
Other Connection Taxes
 
imposing such Taxes (other than a connection arising from such Recipient having executed, delivered, enforced, become a party to, performed its obligations under, received payments under, received or perfected a security interest under, or engaged in any other transaction pursuant to, or enforced, this Agreement, or sold or assigned an interest in this Agreement).
          "" means any present or future stamp, court, documentary, intangible, recording, filing or similar excise or property Taxes that arise from any payment made under, from the execution, delivery, performance, enforcement or registration of, or from the registration, receipt or perfection of a security interest under, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement, except any such Taxes that are Other Connection Taxes imposed with respect to an assignment (other than an assignment under Section 2.19(b)).
Other Taxes
          "" means the guaranty dated as of the date hereof by the Company in favor of the Guaranteed Parties.
Parent Guaranty
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04(c).
Participant
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04(c).
Participant Register
          "" means any member state of the European Communities that adopts or has adopted the Euro as its lawful currency in accordance with the legislation of the European Community relating to the Economic and Monetary Union.
Participating Member State
          "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
PBGC
          "" means the acquisition by the Company or a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary thereof of an Acquired Entity or Business (including by way of merger of such Acquired Entity or Business with and into the Company (so long as the Company is the surviving corporation) or a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary thereof (so long as a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary is the surviving corporation); that, in each case, (a) the consideration paid or to be paid by the Company or such Wholly-Owned Subsidiary consists solely of cash (including proceeds of Revolving Loans or Swingline Loans), the issuance or incurrence of Indebtedness otherwise permitted by Section 6.01, the issuance of common stock of the Company to the extent no Default or Event of Default exists pursuant to clause (m) of or would result therefrom and the assumption or acquisition of any Indebtedness (calculated at face value) which is permitted to remain outstanding by Section 6.01; (b) the Acquired Entity or Business acquired pursuant to the respective Permitted Acquisition is in a business permitted by Section 6.03(c); (c) in the case of a stock acquisition, such acquisition shall have been approved by the board of directors of the Acquired Entity or Business; and (d) all applicable requirements of Sections 6.03 and 6.04(e) applicable to Permitted Acquisitions are satisfied.
Permitted Acquisition
provided
Article VII
          "" means:
Permitted Encumbrances
          (a) Liens imposed by law for Taxes that are not yet due or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.04;
 
          (b) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's, landlord's and other like Liens imposed by law, arising in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations that are not overdue by more than 30 days or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.04;
          (c) pledges and deposits made in the ordinary course of business in compliance with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security laws or regulations;
          (d) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts, leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
          (e) judgment liens in respect of judgments that do not constitute an Event of Default under clause (k) of ;
Article VII
          (f) easements, zoning restrictions, rights-of-way and similar encumbrances on real property imposed by law or arising in the ordinary course of business that do not secure any monetary obligations and do not materially detract from the value of the affected property or interfere with the ordinary conduct of business of the Company or any Subsidiary;
          (g) Liens arising by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to banker's liens, rights of set-off or similar rights and remedies as to deposit accounts or other funds maintained with depository institutions;
          (h) licenses of patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights granted in the ordinary course of business;
          (i) Liens deemed to exist in connection with repurchase agreements related to Permitted Investments; and
          (j) Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities arising as a matter of law to secure payment of customs duties in connection with the import or export of goods;
that the term "" shall not include any Lien securing Indebtedness.
provided
Permitted Encumbrances
          "" means:
Permitted Investments
          (a) direct obligations of, or obligations the principal of and interest on which are unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States of America (or by any agency thereof to the extent such obligations are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States of America), in each case maturing within one year of the settlement date thereof;
          (b) corporate securities, fixed and floating rate, that (i) have a final maturity of not greater than one year from the settlement date thereof (with the next coupon reset date of floating rate securities being considered the maturity date of such securities) and (ii) are rated by at least two of Moody's, S&P and Fitch with minimum credit quality of such securities at the
 
time of purchase thereof to be Aa2/AA/AA as rated by Moody's, S&P and Fitch, respectively (with the lowest rating prevailing in the case of split rated securities);
          (c) investments in commercial paper maturing within 270 days of the settlement date thereof and having, at such settlement date, the highest credit rating obtainable from S&P or from Moody's;
          (d) investments in certificates of deposit, including "Domestic", "Yankee" and Euro certificates of deposit, banker's acceptances, eurodollar deposits and time deposits maturing within 360 days of the settlement date thereof issued or guaranteed by or placed with, and money market deposit accounts issued or offered by, any domestic office of any commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof which has a combined capital and surplus and undivided profits of not less than $500,000,000;
          (e) fully collateralized repurchase agreements with a term of not more than 30 days for securities described in clause (a) above and entered into with a financial institution satisfying the criteria described in clause (c) above;
          (f) money market funds that (i) comply with the criteria set forth in Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act of 1940, (ii) are rated AAA by S&P and Aaa by Moody's and (iii) have portfolio assets of at least $5,000,000,000;
          (g) in the case of a Foreign Subsidiary, direct obligations of, or obligations the principal of and interest on which are unconditionally guaranteed by, any country (or by any agency thereof to the extent such obligations are backed by the full faith and credit of such country) that is a member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (the ""), in each case maturing within one year from the date of acquisition thereof; and
OECD
          (h) in the case of a Foreign Subsidiary, investments in certificates of deposit, banker's acceptances, eurocurrency deposits and time deposits maturing within 360 days from the date of acquisition thereof issued or guaranteed by or placed with, and money market deposit accounts issued or offered by, any office of any commercial bank that is (i) a Lender, (ii) organized under the laws of a member of the OECD or a state, province or territory thereof which has a combined capital and surplus and undivided profits of not less than $500,000,000, (iii) a bank with which any Foreign Subsidiary has a banking relationship as of the date of this Agreement or (iv) approved by the Administrative Agent (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld).
          "" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
          "" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
Plan
 
          "" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMorgan as its prime rate in effect at its office located at 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective.
Prime Rate
          "" means, with respect to compliance with Sections 6.09 and 6.10, compliance with such sections after giving effect to any proposed acquisition or incurrence of Indebtedness, as applicable, as if such proposed acquisition or incurrence of Indebtedness, as applicable, and any Indebtedness or other liabilities to be incurred or repaid in connection therewith had been consummated and incurred or repaid at the beginning of such period and assuming all Indebtedness so assumed to be outstanding shall be deemed to have borne interest (a) in the case of fixed rate indebtedness, at the rate applicable thereto or (b) in the case of floating rate Indebtedness, at the rates which were or would have been applicable thereto during the period when such Indebtedness was or was deemed to be outstanding.
Pro Forma Basis
          "" means, at any date of determination, that the Company shall be in pro forma compliance with Sections 6.09 and 6.10 as of the last day of the most recently completed period of four fiscal quarters for which financial statements shall have been delivered to the Administrative Agent (computed, as the case may be, on the basis of (a) balance sheet amounts as of such date and (b) income statement amounts for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters then ended and calculated on a Pro Forma Basis in respect of the event giving rise to such determination).
Pro Forma Compliance
          "" means, with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing and any Interest Period, the day on which it is market practice in the relevant interbank market for prime banks to give quotations for deposits in the currency of such Borrowing for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period. If such quotations would normally be given by prime banks on more than one day, the Quotation Day will be the last of such days.
Quotation Day
          "" means, as applicable, (a) the Administrative Agent, (b) any Lender and (c) the Issuing Bank.
Recipient
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.06.
Reference EBITDA
          "" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
          "" means, at any time, Lenders having Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments representing more than 50% of the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments at such time.
Required Lenders
          "" means any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any Equity Interests in the Company or any Subsidiary, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such Equity Interests or any option, warrant or other right to acquire any such Equity Interests.
Restricted Payment
 
          "" means the reorganization and restructuring activities publicly announced by the Company from time to time prior to the date hereof covering activities occurring during the period from June 1, 2007 through June 30, 2010.
Restructuring
          "" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Loans and its LC Exposure and Swingline Exposure at such time.
Revolving Credit Exposure
          "" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.01.
Revolving Loan
          "" means Standard & Poor's.
S&P
          "" means any sale or other transfer of property by any Person with the intent to lease such property as lessee.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
          "" means March [__], 2011.
Second Amendment Effective Date
          "" or "" means the lawful currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Sterling
          "" means, with respect to any Person (the "") at any date, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date, as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity (a) of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held, or (b) that is, as of such date, otherwise Controlled, by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent.
subsidiary
parent
          "" means any subsidiary of the Company.
Subsidiary
          "" means Molex Japan and any other Wholly-Owned Subsidiary that is a Foreign Subsidiary designated as such by the Company pursuant to Section 2.20.
Subsidiary Borrower
          "" means each Subsidiary of the Company which is a party to the Subsidiary Guaranty.
Subsidiary Guarantor
          "" means the Subsidiary Guaranty dated as of the date hereof made by the Subsidiaries party thereto in favor of the Guaranteed Parties. The Subsidiary Guarantors initially party to the Subsidiary Guaranty are so designated on .
Subsidiary Guaranty
Schedule 3.13
          "" means, with respect to the property of the Company and its Subsidiaries, property which represents more than 5% of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries as would be shown in the consolidated financial statements of the Company
Substantial Portion
 
and its Subsidiaries as at the beginning of the twelve-month period ending with the last day of the month preceding the month in which such determination is made.
          "" means any agreement with respect to any swap, forward, future or derivative transaction or option or similar agreement involving, or settled by reference to, one or more rates, currencies, commodities, equity or debt instruments or securities, or economic, financial or pricing indices or measures of economic, financial or pricing risk or value or any similar transaction or any combination of these transactions; that no phantom stock or similar plan providing for payments only on account of services provided by current or former directors, officers, employees or consultants of the Company or any Subsidiary shall be a Swap Agreement.
Swap Agreement
provided
          "" means, at any time, the aggregate principal amount of all Swingline Loans outstanding at such time. The Swingline Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total Swingline Exposure at such time.
Swingline Exposure
          "" means JPMorgan, in its capacity as lender of Swingline Loans hereunder.
Swingline Lender
          "" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.05.
Swingline Loan
          "" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings, assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
          "" means a letter in substantially the form of hereto.
Termination Letter
Exhibit C
          "" means the sum, without duplication, of (a) all Indebtedness of the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, calculated in accordance with GAAP, (b) the face amount of all outstanding letters of credit (other than trade letters of credit) in respect of which the Company or any Subsidiary has any actual or contingent reimbursement obligation, (c) the principal amount of all Guarantees by the Company and its Subsidiaries of Indebtedness, (d) the stated amount of all obligations of the Company and its Subsidiaries under letters of guarantee, (e) the amount of all Factoring Indebtedness. Notwithstanding the foregoing, "Total Debt" shall not include contingent obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary under letters of credit issued and letters of guaranty obtained to support underlying obligations that do not constitute Indebtedness or any Guarantee of any such contingent obligation, except to the extent that the aggregate amount of all such contingent obligations (without duplication and excluding obligations under trade letters of credit) exceeds $15,000,000.
Total Debt
plus
plus
plus
plus
          "" means, for any period, total cash interest expense deducted in the computation of Net Income for such period (including that attributable to Capital Lease Obligations) of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such period with respect to all outstanding Indebtedness of the Company and its Subsidiaries (including all commissions, discounts and other fees and charges owed with respect to letters of credit and bankers' acceptance financing and net costs of rate hedging in respect of interest rates to the extent such net costs are allocable to such period in accordance with GAAP).
Total Interest Expense
 
          "" means the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrowers of this Agreement, each other Credit Document and any Designation Letters, the borrowing of Loans, the use of the proceeds thereof and the issuance of Letters of Credit hereunder.
Transactions
          "", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the Eurocurrency Rate or the Alternate Base Rate.
Type
          "" means a "United States person" within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code.
U.S. Person
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.17(f)(ii)(D)(2).
U.S. Tax Certificate
          "" of a Person means (a) any subsidiary all of the outstanding voting securities of which shall at the time be owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or one or more Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries of such Person, or by such Person and one or more Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries of such Person, or (b) any partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture or similar business organization 100% of the ownership interests having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be so owned or controlled (other than in the case of Foreign Subsidiaries, director's qualifying shares and/or other nominal amounts of shares required to be held by Persons other than the Company and its Subsidiaries under applicable law).
Wholly-Owned Subsidiary
          "" means any Credit Party and the Administrative Agent.
Withholding Agent
          SECTION 1.02. . For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Class (, a "Revolving Loan") or by Type (, a "Eurocurrency Loan") or by Class and Type (, a "Eurocurrency Revolving Loan"). Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Class (, a "Revolving Borrowing") or by Type (, a "Eurocurrency Borrowing") or by Class and Type (, a "Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing").
Classification of Loans and Borrowings
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
          SECTION 1.03. . The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented, restated or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same
Terms Generally
 
meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
          SECTION 1.04. . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that (a) GAAP will be deemed to treat operating leases in a manner consistent with its treatment under generally accepted accounting principles as in effect on the Effective Date, notwithstanding any modification or interpretive change thereto that may occur thereafter; and (b) if the Company notifies the Administrative Agent that the Company requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Company that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith.
Accounting Terms; GAAP
provided
          SECTION 1.05. . (a) For purposes of determining the Dollar Equivalent of any Loan or Letter of Credit denominated in a Foreign Currency or any related amount, the Administrative Agent shall determine the Exchange Rate as of the applicable Exchange Rate Date with respect to each Foreign Currency in which any requested or outstanding Loan or Letter of Credit is denominated and shall apply such Exchange Rate to determine such amount.
Foreign Currency Calculations
          (b) For purposes of any determination hereunder (including determinations under Section 6.01, 6.02, 6.04, 6.09 or 6.10 or under ), all amounts incurred, outstanding or proposed to be incurred or outstanding in currencies other than Dollars shall be translated into Dollars at the appropriate currency Exchange Rate; that no Default shall arise as a result of any limitation set forth in Dollars in Section 6.01 or 6.02 being exceeded solely as a result of changes in Exchange Rates from those rates applicable at the time or times Indebtedness or Liens were initially consummated in reliance on the exceptions under such Sections. For purposes of any determination under Section 6.04, 6.09 or 6.10, the amount of each investment, asset disposition or other applicable transaction denominated in a currency other than Dollars shall be translated into Dollars at the applicable Exchange Rate. Such Exchange Rates shall be determined in good faith by the Company.
Article VII
provided
          SECTION 2.01. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Revolving Loans denominated in Dollars and Foreign Currencies to the Borrowers from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in (a) such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Commitment, (b) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the total Commitments, (c) the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of
Commitments
 
all Revolving Credit Exposure of all Lenders relative to all Subsidiary Borrowers exceeding $200,000,000 or (d) the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate amount of all Revolving Loans and Letters of Credit denominated in Foreign Currencies exceeding $200,000,000. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrowers may borrow, prepay and reborrow Revolving Loans.
          SECTION 2.02. . (a) Each Revolving Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Revolving Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; that the Commitments of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required hereby.
Loans and Borrowings
provided
          (b) Subject to Section 2.14, (i) each Revolving Borrowing denominated in Dollars shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans or Eurocurrency Loans as the Company may request in accordance herewith and (ii) each Revolving Borrowing denominated in a Foreign Currency shall be comprised entirely of Eurocurrency Loans. Each Swingline Loan shall be an ABR Loan or shall bear interest at such rate otherwise agreed to between the Company and the Swingline Lender.
          (c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000. At the time that each ABR Revolving Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $500,000 and not less than $1,000,000; that an ABR Revolving Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the total Commitments or that is required to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.06(e). Each Swingline Loan shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $500,000 and not less than $1,000,000. Borrowings of more than one Type and Class may be outstanding at the same time; that there shall not at any time be more than a total of eight (or such greater number as may be agreed to from time to time by the Company and the Administrative Agent) Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowings outstanding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Loans which are not denominated in Dollars may be made in amounts and increments in the applicable Foreign Currency reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
provided
provided
          (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company shall not be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date.
          (e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, each Lender at its option may make any ABR Loan or Eurocurrency Loan by causing any domestic or foreign office, branch or Affiliate of such Lender that has been designated by such Lender to the Company and the Administrative Agent (an "") to make such Loan. All terms of this Agreement shall apply to any such Applicable Lending Installation of such Lender and the Loans and any notes issued hereunder shall be deemed held by each Lender for the benefit of any such Applicable Lending Installation. Each Lender may, by written notice to the Administrative Agent and the Company, designate replacement or additional Applicable
Applicable Lending Installation
 
Lending Installations through which Loans will be made by it and for whose account Loan payments are to be made.
          SECTION 2.03. . To request a Revolving Borrowing (other than a Swingline Loan), the Company shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (or, in the case of requests in respect of Eurocurrency Borrowings denominated in Foreign Currencies, by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved the Administrative Agent and signed by the Company) (a) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., Local Time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing or (b) in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., Local Time, one Business Day before the date of the proposed Borrowing; that any such notice of an ABR Revolving Borrowing to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.06(e) may be given not later than 10:00 a.m., Local Time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Company. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
Requests for Revolving Borrowings
provided
     (i) the identity of the Applicable Borrower;
     (ii) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
     (iii) the currency (which may be Dollars or a Foreign Currency) in which such Borrowing is to be denominated;
     (iv) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
     (v) in the case of a Borrowing denominated in Dollars, whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Borrowing;
     (vi) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by clause (a) of the definition of the term "Interest Period"; and
     (vii) the location and number of the Applicable Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.07.
Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
          SECTION 2.04. . If no election as to the Type of Revolving Borrowing is specified in a notice requesting a Revolving Borrowing denominated in Dollars, then the requested Revolving Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified in a notice requesting a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing, then the Company shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.
Effect of Incomplete Borrowing Notice
 
          SECTION 2.05. . (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swingline Lender agrees to make Dollar-denominated Swingline Loans to the Company from time to time during the Availability Period, in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding that will not result in (i) the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans exceeding $50,000,000 or (ii) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the total Commitments; that the Swingline Lender shall not be required to make a Swingline Loan to refinance an outstanding Swingline Loan. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Company may borrow, prepay and reborrow Swingline Loans.
Swingline Loans
provided
          (b) To request a Swingline Loan, the Company shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (confirmed by telecopy), not later than 12:00 noon, Local Time, on the day of a proposed Swingline Loan. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify (i) the requested date (which shall be a Business Day) and (ii) the amount of the requested Swingline Loan. The Administrative Agent will promptly advise the Swingline Lender of any such notice received from the Company. Each Swingline Loan shall bear interest at the rate applicable to ABR Loans or, if applicable, at such other rate as the Company and the Swingline Lender shall have agreed prior to the request for such Swingline Loan. The Swingline Lender shall make each Swingline Loan available to the Company by means of a credit to the general deposit account of the Company with the Swingline Lender (or, in the case of a Swingline Loan made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.06(e), by remittance to the applicable Issuing Bank) by 3:00 p.m., Local Time, on the requested date of such Swingline Loan.
          (c) The Swingline Lender may by written notice given to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m., Local Time, on any Business Day require the Lenders to acquire participations on such Business Day in all or a portion of the Swingline Loans outstanding. Such notice shall specify the aggregate amount of Swingline Loans in which Lenders will participate, and such amount of Swingline Loans shall bear interest at the Alternate Base Rate. Promptly upon receipt of such notice, the Administrative Agent will give notice thereof to each Lender, specifying in such notice such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans. Each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees, upon receipt of notice as provided above, to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Swingline Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations in Swingline Loans pursuant to this paragraph is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Each Lender shall comply with its obligation under this paragraph by wire transfer of immediately available funds, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.07 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.07 shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the Swingline Lender the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Company of any participations in any Swingline Loan acquired pursuant to this paragraph, and thereafter payments in respect of such Swingline Loan shall be made to the Administrative Agent and not to the Swingline Lender. Any amounts received by the Swingline Lender from the Company (or other party on behalf of the Company)
mutatis
mutandis
 
in respect of a Swingline Loan after receipt by the Swingline Lender of the proceeds of a sale of participations therein shall be promptly remitted to the Administrative Agent; any such amounts received by the Administrative Agent shall be promptly remitted by the Administrative Agent to the Lenders that shall have made their payments pursuant to this paragraph and to the Swingline Lender, as their interests may appear; that any such payment so remitted shall be repaid to the Swingline Lender or to the Administrative Agent, as applicable, if and to the extent such payment is required to be refunded to the Company for any reason. The purchase of participations in a Swingline Loan pursuant to this paragraph shall not relieve the Company of any default in the payment thereof.
provided
          SECTION 2.06. . (a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Company may request the issuance of Letters of Credit for its own account or for the account of any Subsidiary Borrower, in a form reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the applicable Issuing Bank, at any time and from time to time during the Availability Period. In the event of any inconsistency between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of any form of letter of credit application or other agreement submitted by the Company to, or entered into by the Company with, any Issuing Bank relating to any Letter of Credit, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall control.
Letters of Credit
General
          (b) . To request the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or the amendment, renewal or extension of an outstanding Letter of Credit), the Company shall hand deliver or telecopy (or transmit by electronic communication, if arrangements for doing so have been approved by the applicable Issuing Bank) to the applicable Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent (reasonably in advance of the requested date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension) a notice requesting the issuance of a Letter of Credit, or identifying the Letter of Credit to be amended, renewed or extended, and specifying the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (which shall be a Business Day), the date on which such Letter of Credit is to expire (which shall comply with paragraph (c) of this Section), the amount of such Letter of Credit, the name and address of the beneficiary thereof and such other information as shall be necessary to prepare, amend, renew or extend such Letter of Credit. If requested by the applicable Issuing Bank, the Company also shall submit a letter of credit application on such Issuing Bank's standard form in connection with any request for a Letter of Credit. A Letter of Credit shall be issued, amended, renewed or extended only if (and upon issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of each Letter of Credit the Company shall be deemed to represent and warrant that), after giving effect to such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (i) the Dollar Equivalent of the LC Exposure shall not exceed $75,000,000, (ii) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures shall not exceed the total Commitments, (iii) the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Revolving Credit Exposure of all Lenders relative to all Subsidiary Borrowers shall not exceed $200,000,000 and (iv) the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate amount of all Revolving Loans and Letters of Credit denominated in Foreign Currencies shall not exceed $200,000,000.
Notice of Issuance, Amendment, Renewal, Extension; Certain Conditions
          (c) . Each Letter of Credit shall expire at or prior to the close of business on the earlier of (i) the date one year after the date of the issuance of such Letter of Credit (or, in the case of any renewal or extension thereof, one year after such renewal or extension) and (ii) the date that is five Business Days prior to the Maturity Date; that a
Expiration Date
provided
 
Letter of Credit may expire after the date referred to in clause (ii) above (but not after the date referred to in clause (i) above) so long as not later than five Business Days prior to the Maturity Date, the Company has cash collateralized such Letter of Credit in accordance with Section 2.06(j).
          (d) . By the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of the applicable Issuing Bank or the Lenders, each Issuing Bank hereby grants to each Lender, and each Lender hereby acquires from each Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the aggregate amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit. In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the applicable Issuing Bank, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of each LC Disbursement made by such Issuing Bank and not reimbursed by the Applicable Borrower on the date due as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section, or of any reimbursement payment required to be refunded to the Applicable Borrower for any reason. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever.
Participations
          (e) . If any Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement in respect of a Letter of Credit, the Applicable Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement by paying to the Administrative Agent an amount equal to such LC Disbursement not later than 12:00 noon, Local Time, on the date that such LC Disbursement is made, if such Borrower shall have received notice of such LC Disbursement prior to 10:00 a.m., Local Time, on such date, or, if such notice has not been received by such Borrower prior to such time on such date, then not later than 12:00 noon, Local Time, on (i) the Business Day that such Borrower receives such notice, if such notice is received prior to 10:00 a.m., Local Time, on the day of receipt, or (ii) the Business Day immediately following the day that such Borrower receives such notice, if such notice is not received prior to such time on the day of receipt; that the Company may, subject to the conditions to borrowing set forth herein, request in accordance with Section 2.03 or 2.05 that such payment be financed with an ABR Revolving Borrowing or Swingline Loan in an equivalent amount and, to the extent so financed, the Applicable Borrower's obligation to make such payment shall be discharged and replaced by the resulting ABR Revolving Borrowing or Swingline Loan. If the Applicable Borrower fails to make such payment when due, such amount, if denominated in Foreign Currency, shall be converted to Dollars and shall bear interest at the Alternate Base Rate and the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the applicable LC Disbursement, the payment then due from such Borrower in respect thereof and such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof. Promptly following receipt of such notice, each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent its Applicable Percentage of the payment then due from the Applicable Borrower, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.07 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.07 shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the applicable Issuing Bank the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. Promptly following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any payment from any Borrower pursuant to this paragraph, the
Reimbursement
provided
mutatis
mutandis
 
Administrative Agent shall distribute such payment to the applicable Issuing Bank or, to the extent that Lenders have made payments pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse such Issuing Bank, then to such Lenders and such Issuing Bank as their interests may appear. Any payment made by a Lender pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse any Issuing Bank for any LC Disbursement (other than the funding of ABR Revolving Loans or a Swingline Loan as contemplated above) shall not constitute a Loan and shall not relieve the Applicable Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such LC Disbursement.
          (f) . The obligation of the Applicable Borrower to reimburse LC Disbursements as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be performed strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under any and all circumstances whatsoever and irrespective of (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Letter of Credit or this Agreement, or any term or provision therein, (ii) any draft or other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent or invalid in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect, (iii) payment by any Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or other document that does not comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit, or (iv) any other event or circumstance whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, that might, but for the provisions of this Section, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of, or provide a right of setoff against, such Borrower's obligations hereunder. Neither the Administrative Agent, the Lenders nor any Issuing Bank, nor any of their Related Parties, shall have any liability or responsibility by reason of or in connection with the issuance or transfer of any Letter of Credit or any payment or failure to make any payment thereunder (irrespective of any of the circumstances referred to in the preceding sentence), or any error, omission, interruption, loss or delay in transmission or delivery of any draft, notice or other communication under or relating to any Letter of Credit (including any document required to make a drawing thereunder), any error in interpretation of technical terms or any consequence arising from causes beyond the control of any Issuing Bank; that the foregoing shall not be construed to excuse any Issuing Bank from liability to the Applicable Borrower to the extent of any direct damages (as opposed to consequential damages, claims in respect of which are hereby waived by each Borrower to the extent permitted by applicable law) suffered by such Borrower that are caused by such Issuing Bank's failure to exercise care when determining whether drafts and other documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof. The parties hereto expressly agree that, in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the applicable Issuing Bank (as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction), such Issuing Bank shall be deemed to have exercised care in each such determination. In furtherance of the foregoing and without limiting the generality thereof, the parties agree that, with respect to documents presented which appear on their face to be in substantial compliance with the terms of a Letter of Credit, the applicable Issuing Bank may, in its sole discretion, either accept and make payment upon such documents without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, or refuse to accept and make payment upon such documents if such documents are not in strict compliance with the terms of such Letter of Credit.
Obligations Absolute
provided
          (g) . The applicable Issuing Bank shall, promptly following its receipt thereof, examine all documents purporting to represent a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit. The applicable Issuing Bank shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent and the Applicable Borrower by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of
Disbursement Procedures
 
such demand for payment and whether such Issuing Bank has made or will make an LC Disbursement thereunder; that any failure to give or delay in giving such notice shall not relieve such Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such Issuing Bank and the Lenders with respect to any such LC Disbursement.
provided
          (h) . If any Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement, then, unless the Applicable Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement in full on the date such LC Disbursement is made, the unpaid amount thereof shall bear interest, for each day from and including the date such LC Disbursement is made to but excluding the date that such Borrower reimburses such LC Disbursement, at the rate per annum then applicable to ABR Revolving Loans; that, if any Borrower fails to reimburse such LC Disbursement when due pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section, then Section 2.13(d) shall apply. Interest accrued pursuant to this paragraph shall be for the account of the applicable Issuing Bank, except that interest accrued on and after the date of payment by any Lender pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section to reimburse such Issuing Bank shall be for the account of such Lender to the extent of such payment.
Interim Interest
provided
          (i) . Any Issuing Bank may be replaced at any time by written agreement among the Company, the Administrative Agent, the replaced Issuing Bank and the successor Issuing Bank. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders of any such replacement of an Issuing Bank. At the time any such replacement shall become effective, the Company shall pay all unpaid fees accrued for the account of the replaced Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.12(b). From and after the effective date of any such replacement, (i) the successor Issuing Bank shall have all the rights and obligations of an Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit to be issued thereafter and (ii) references herein to the term "Issuing Bank" shall be deemed to refer to such successor or to any previous Issuing Bank, or to such successor and all previous or current Issuing Banks, as the context shall require. After the replacement of an Issuing Bank hereunder, the replaced Issuing Bank shall remain a party hereto and shall continue to have all the rights and obligations of an Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit issued by it prior to such replacement, but shall not be required to issue additional Letters of Credit.
Replacement of Issuing Banks
          (j) . If (i) any Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, within two (2) Business Days of the Company's receipt of notice from the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders demanding the deposit of cash collateral pursuant to this paragraph or (ii) as of the date five Business Days prior to the Maturity Date, any Letter of Credit remains outstanding, in either case, the Company shall deposit in an account with the Administrative Agent, in the name of the Administrative Agent and for the benefit of the Lenders, an amount in cash in Dollars equal to 105% of the Dollar Equivalent of the LC Exposure as of such date plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon; that the obligation to deposit such cash collateral shall become effective immediately, and such deposit shall become immediately due and payable, without demand or other notice of any kind, upon the occurrence of any Event of Default with respect to the Company described in clause (h) or (i) of . Any such deposit shall be held by the Administrative Agent as collateral for the payment and performance of the obligations of the Borrowers under this Agreement. The Administrative Agent shall have exclusive dominion and control, including the exclusive right of withdrawal, over such account. Other than any interest earned on the investment of such
Cash Collateralization
provided
Article VII
 
deposits, which investments shall be made at the option and sole discretion of the Administrative Agent and at the Company's risk and expense, such deposits shall not bear interest. Interest or profits, if any, on such investments shall accumulate in such account. Moneys in such account shall be applied by the Administrative Agent to reimburse the Issuing Banks for LC Disbursements for which they have not been reimbursed and, to the extent not so applied, shall be held for the satisfaction of the reimbursement obligations of the Borrowers for the LC Exposure at such time or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated, be applied to satisfy other obligations of the Borrowers under this Agreement. If the Company is required to provide an amount of cash collateral hereunder as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Default, such amount (to the extent not applied as aforesaid) shall be returned to the Company within three Business Days after all Events of Default have been cured or waived.
          SECTION 2.07. . (a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 12:00 noon, Local Time, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders; that Swingline Loans shall be made as provided in Section 2.05. The Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to the Applicable Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of the Applicable Borrower maintained with the Administrative Agent in New York City (or, in the case of Subsidiary Borrowers or Loans denominated in a Foreign Currency, in such other location as may be reasonably designated by the Applicable Borrower) and designated by the Company in the applicable Borrowing Request; that ABR Revolving Loans made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.06(e) shall be remitted by the Administrative Agent to the applicable Issuing Bank.
Funding of Borrowings
provided
provided
          (b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Applicable Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Applicable Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Applicable Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, (x) the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation (in the case of a Borrowing denominated in Dollars) or (y) the rate reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent to be the cost to it of funding such amount (in the case of a Borrowing denominated in a Foreign Currency) or (ii) in the case of the Applicable Borrower, (A) the interest rate applicable to ABR Loans (in the case of a Borrowing denominated in Dollars) or (B) the interest rate otherwise applicable to such Borrowing, including any applicable Mandatory Costs Rate (in the case of a Borrowing denominated in a Foreign Currency). If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing.
 
          SECTION 2.08. . (a) Each Revolving Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request. Thereafter, the Company may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type, in the case of Borrowings denominated in Dollars, or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. The Company may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing. This Section shall not apply to Swingline Borrowings, which may not be converted or continued.
Interest Elections
          (b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, the Company shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under Section 2.03 if the Company were requesting a Revolving Borrowing of the Type and denominated in the Foreign Currency resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Company.
          (c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
     (i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
     (ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
     (iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Borrowing; and
     (iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period".
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurocurrency Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the Company shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.
          (d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
 
          (e) If the Company fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing (unless such Borrowing is denominated in a Foreign Currency, in which case such Borrowing shall be continued as a Eurocurrency Borrowing with an Interest Period of one month's duration commencing on the last day of such Interest Period). Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Company, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Revolving Borrowing denominated in Dollars may be converted to or continued as a Eurocurrency Borrowing, (ii) unless repaid, each Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing denominated in Dollars shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, and (iii) unless repaid, each Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing denominated in a Foreign Currency shall be continued as a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing with an Interest Period of one month's duration.
          SECTION 2.09. . (a) Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall terminate on the Maturity Date.
Termination, Reduction and Increase of Commitments
          (b) The Company may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments; that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 and (ii) the Company shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with Section 2.11, the sum of the Revolving Credit Exposures would exceed the total Commitments.
provided
          (c) The Company shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section at least three Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any such notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by the Company pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by the Company may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Company (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments.
provided
          (d) On up to two occasions, the Company may, from time to time, at its option, seek to increase the total Commitments by up to an aggregate amount of $175,000,000 (resulting in maximum total Commitments of $525,000,000) upon at least three (3) Business Days' prior written notice to the Administrative Agent, which notice shall specify the amount of any such increase and shall be delivered at a time when no Default has occurred and is continuing. After delivery of such notice, the Administrative Agent or the Company, in consultation with the Administrative Agent, may offer the increase (which may be declined by any Lender in its sole discretion) in the total Commitments on either a ratable basis to the
 
Lenders or on a non pro-rata basis to one or more Lenders and/or to other Lenders or entities reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Company. No increase in the total Commitments shall become effective until the existing or new Lenders extending such incremental Commitment amount and the Company shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent a document in form reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which shall include the Company's representation that the conditions set forth in Section 4.02 are then satisfied) pursuant to which any such existing Lender states the amount of its Commitment increase, any such new Lender states its Commitment amount and agrees to assume and accept the obligations and rights of a Lender hereunder and the Company accepts such incremental Commitments. Upon the effectiveness of any increase in the total Commitments pursuant hereto, (i) each Lender (new or existing) shall be deemed to have accepted an assignment from the existing Lenders, and the existing Lenders shall be deemed to have made an assignment to each new or existing Lender accepting a new or increased Commitment, of an interest in each then outstanding Revolving Loan (in each case, on the terms and conditions set forth in the Assignment and Assumption) and (ii) the Swingline Exposure and LC Exposure of the existing and new Lenders shall be automatically adjusted such that, after giving effect to such assignments and adjustments, all Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder is held ratably by the Lenders in proportion to their respective Commitments. Assignments pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be made in exchange for, and substantially contemporaneously with the payment to the assigning Lenders of, the principal amount assigned plus accrued and unpaid interest and commitment and Letter of Credit fees. Payments received by assigning Lenders pursuant to this Section in respect of the principal amount of any Eurocurrency Loan shall, for purposes of Section 2.16, be deemed prepayments of such Loan. Any increase of the total Commitments pursuant to this Section shall be subject to receipt by the Administrative Agent from the Company of such supplemental opinions, resolutions, certificates and other documents as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
          SECTION 2.10. . (a) Each Applicable Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each of its Revolving Loans on the Maturity Date and (ii) to the Swingline Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Swingline Loan on the earlier of the Maturity Date and the first date after such Swingline Loan is made that is the 15th or last day of a calendar month and is at least two Business Days after such Swingline Loan is made; that on each date that a Revolving Borrowing is made, the Company shall repay all Swingline Loans then outstanding.
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt
provided
          (b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrowers to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
          (c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Class and Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrowers to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
 
          (d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrowers to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
prima
facie
provided
          (e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a promissory note. In such event, the Borrowers shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note payable to such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and in a form approved by the Administrative Agent. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 9.04) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
          (f) If at any time the aggregate Revolving Credit Exposure of the Lenders exceeds the aggregate Commitments of the Lenders, the Company shall (or shall cause one or more Subsidiary Borrowers to) immediately prepay the Loans in the amount of such excess. To the extent that, after the prepayment of all Loans an excess of the Revolving Credit Exposure over the aggregate Commitments still exists, the Company shall (or shall cause one or more Subsidiary Borrowers to) promptly cash collateralize the Letters of Credit in the manner described in Section 2.06(j) in an amount sufficient to eliminate such excess.
          (g) The Administrative Agent will determine the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate LC Exposure and the Dollar Equivalent of each Loan on each Exchange Rate Date. If at any time the sum of such amounts exceeds 105% of the aggregate Commitments of the Lenders, the Company shall (or shall cause one or more Subsidiary Borrowers to) immediately prepay the Loans in the amount of such excess. To the extent that, after the prepayment of all Loans an excess of the sum of such amounts over the aggregate Commitments still exists, the Company shall (or shall cause one or more Subsidiary Borrowers to) promptly cash collateralize the Letters of Credit in the manner described in Section 2.06(j) in an amount sufficient to eliminate such excess.
          SECTION 2.11. . (a) The Borrowers shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section.
Prepayment of Loans
          (b) The Company shall notify the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of prepayment of a Swingline Loan, the Swingline Lender) by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of any prepayment hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., Local Time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment, (ii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., Local Time, one Business Day before the date of prepayment or (iii) in the case of prepayment of a Swingline Loan, not later than 12:00 noon, Local Time, on the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments
provided
 
as contemplated by Section 2.09(c), then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with Section 2.09(c). Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Revolving Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Revolving Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Revolving Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.02. Each prepayment of a Revolving Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.13.
          SECTION 2.12. . (a) The Company agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a commitment fee, which shall accrue at the Applicable Rate on the daily amount of the difference between the Commitment of such Lender and the Revolving Credit Exposure of such Lender (excluding its Swingline Exposure) during the period from and including the date hereof to but excluding the date on which such Commitment terminates. Commitment fees shall be payable in arrears on the third Business Day of April, July, October and January of each year (to the extent accrued during the preceding calendar quarter) and on the date on which the Commitments terminate (to the extent not previously paid), commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof. All commitment fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
Fees
          (b) The Company agrees to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a participation fee with respect to its participations in Letters of Credit, which shall accrue at the same Applicable Rate used to determine the interest rate applicable to Eurocurrency Revolving Loans on the average daily amount of such Lender's LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date on which such Lender's Commitment terminates and the date on which such Lender ceases to have any LC Exposure, and (ii) to each Issuing Bank for its own account a fronting fee, which shall accrue at the rate or rates per annum separately agreed upon between the Company and such Issuing Bank on the average daily amount of the LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date of termination of the Commitments and the date on which there ceases to be any LC Exposure, as well as such Issuing Bank's standard fees with respect to the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or processing of drawings thereunder. Participation fees and fronting fees accrued through and including the last day of March, June, September and December of each year shall be payable in arrears on the third Business Day following such last day, commencing on the first such date to occur after the Effective Date; that all such fees shall be payable on the date on which the Commitments terminate and any such fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. Any other fees payable to any Issuing Bank pursuant to this paragraph shall be payable within 10 days after demand. All participation fees and fronting fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
provided
 
          (c) The Company agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between the Company and the Administrative Agent.
          (d) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent (or to each Issuing Bank, in the case of fees payable to it) for distribution, in the case of facility fees and participation fees, to the Lenders. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
          SECTION 2.13. . (a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing shall bear interest at the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applicable Rate.
Interest
          (b) The Loans comprising each Eurocurrency Borrowing shall bear interest at the Eurocurrency Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Rate.
          (c) Each Swingline Loan shall bear interest as determined in accordance with Section 2.05.
          (d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by any Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (e) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan, upon the final maturity thereof and upon termination of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.09; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurocurrency Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion.
provided
          (f) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that (i) interest on Borrowings denominated in Sterling shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), (ii) interest on Borrowings denominated in any other Foreign Currency for which it is required by applicable law or customary to compute interest on the basis of a year of 365 days or, if required by applicable law or customary, 366 days in a leap year, shall be computed on such basis, and (iii) interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate or Eurocurrency Rate shall be
 
determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
          SECTION 2.14. . If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in any currency:
Alternate Rate of Interest
     (a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period; or
     (b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders that the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders (or Lender) of making or maintaining their Loans (or its Loan) included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Company and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Company and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Revolving Borrowing to, or continuation of any Revolving Borrowing as, a Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in such currency shall be ineffective, (ii) such Borrowing shall be converted to or continued as on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto (A) if such Borrowing is denominated in Dollars, an ABR Borrowing or (B) if such Borrowing is denominated in a Foreign Currency, as a Borrowing in respect of which the rate to apply to each Lender's applicable Loan is an interest rate equal to the sum of (1) the Applicable Rate for Eurocurrency Loans, (2) the rate notified to the Administrative Agent by such Lender as soon as practicable and in any event before interest is due to be paid in respect of the applicable Interest Period, to be that which expresses as a percentage rate per annum the cost to such Lender of funding its applicable Loan from whatever source it may reasonably select and (3) the Mandatory Costs Rate, if any, applicable to such Lender's applicable Loan, and (iii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurocurrency Borrowing in such currency, such Borrowing shall be made as an ABR Borrowing (if such Borrowing is requested to be made in Dollars) or shall be made as a Borrowing bearing interest at the rate described under (ii)(B) above.
          SECTION 2.15. . (a) If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs
     (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement compensated for by the Mandatory Cost Rate or pursuant to Section 2.21(b)) or any Issuing Bank;
     (ii) impose on any Lender or Issuing Bank or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Eurocurrency Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein; or
     (iii) subject any Recipient to any Taxes on its loans, loan principal, letters of credit, commitments, or other obligations, or its deposits, reserves, other liabilities or capital attributable thereto (other than (A) Indemnified Taxes; (B) Excluded Taxes and
 
(C) Other Connection Taxes on gross or net income, profits or revenue (including value-added or similar Taxes));
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender or such other Recipient of making or maintaining any Eurocurrency Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to increase the cost to such Lender, Issuing Bank or other Recipient of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender, Issuing Bank or other Recipient hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the Applicable Borrower will pay to such Lender, Issuing Bank or other Recipient, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender, Issuing Bank or other Recipient, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
          (b) If any Lender or Issuing Bank determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or Issuing Bank's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank, to a level below that which such Lender or Issuing Bank or such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or Issuing Bank's policies and the policies of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Company will pay to such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank or such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
          (c) A certificate of a Lender or Issuing Bank setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section shall be delivered to the Company and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Company (or, in the case of paragraph (a), the Applicable Borrower) shall pay such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
          (d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or Issuing Bank to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's right to demand such compensation; that no Borrower shall be required to compensate a Lender or Issuing Bank pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 270 days prior to the date that such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, notifies the Company of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's intention to claim compensation therefor; that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 270-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
provided
further
          SECTION 2.16. . In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurocurrency
Break Funding Payments
 
Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Eurocurrency Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under Section 2.11(b) and is revoked in accordance therewith) or (d) the assignment of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Company pursuant to Section 2.19, then, in any such event, the Applicable Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event, which loss, cost or expense shall be an amount equal to the amount determined by such Lender to be the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the principal amount of such Loan had such event not occurred, at the Eurocurrency Rate that would have been applicable to such Loan, for the period from the date of such event to the last day of the then current Interest Period therefor (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, for the period that would have been the Interest Period for such Loan), over (ii) the amount of interest which would accrue on such principal amount for such period at the interest rate which such Lender would bid were it to bid, at the commencement of such period, for Dollar deposits in the applicable currency of a comparable amount and period from other banks in the eurocurrency market. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to the Applicable Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Applicable Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
          SECTION 2.17. . (a) . Each payment by or on account of any Credit Party under this Agreement or any Credit Document shall be made free and clear of and without withholding or deduction for any Taxes, unless such withholding or deduction is required by any law. If any Withholding Agent determines, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that it is so required to withhold Taxes, then such Withholding Agent may so withhold and shall timely pay the full amount of withheld Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law. If such Taxes are Indemnified Taxes, then the amount payable by such Credit Party shall be increased as necessary so that, net of such withholding (including such withholding applicable to additional amounts payable under this Section), the applicable Recipient receives the amount it would have received had no such withholding been made.
Taxes
Withholding of Taxes; Gross-Up
          (b) . The Credit Parties shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrower
          (c) . As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by a Credit Party to a Governmental Authority, such Credit Party shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Evidence of Payments
          (d) . The Credit Parties shall indemnify each Recipient for any Indemnified Taxes that are withheld in respect of payment to, or paid or payable by, such Recipient in connection with this Agreement or any Credit Document (including amounts paid or payable under this Section 2.17(d)) and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes were correctly
Indemnification by the Applicable Borrower
 
or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. The indemnity under this Section 2.17(d) shall be paid within 10 days after the Recipient delivers to the Applicable Borrower a certificate stating the amount of any Indemnified Taxes so withheld, paid or payable by such Recipient and describing the basis for the indemnification claim. Such certificate shall be conclusive of the amount so paid or payable absent manifest error. Such Recipient shall deliver a copy of such certificate to the Administrative Agent.
          (e) . Each Lender shall severally indemnify the Administrative Agent for any Taxes (but, in the case of any Indemnified Taxes, only to the extent that any Credit Party has not already indemnified the Administrative Agent for such Indemnified Taxes and without limiting the obligation of the Credit Parties to do so) attributable to such Lender that are paid or payable by the Administrative Agent in connection with this Agreement and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. The indemnity under this Section 2.17(e) shall be paid within 10 days after the Administrative Agent delivers to the applicable Lender a certificate stating the amount of Taxes so paid or payable by the Administrative Agent. Such certificate shall be conclusive of the amount so paid or payable absent manifest error
Indemnification by the Lenders
          (f) . (i) Any Lender that is entitled to an exemption from, or reduction of, any applicable withholding Tax with respect to any payments under this Agreement shall deliver to the Applicable Borrower and the Administrative Agent, at the time or times reasonably requested by such Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation reasonably requested by such Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will permit such payments to be made without, or at a reduced rate of, withholding. In addition, any Lender, if requested by the Applicable Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by law or reasonably requested by such Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable such Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to any withholding (including backup withholding) or information reporting requirements. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the preceding two sentences, the completion, execution and submission of such documentation (other than such documentation set forth in Section 2.17(f)(ii)(A) through (E) below) shall not be required if in the Lender's judgment such completion, execution or submission would subject such Lender to any material unreimbursed cost or expense or would materially prejudice the legal position of such Lender with respect to any tax matter. Upon the reasonable request of such Borrower or the Administrative Agent, any Lender shall update any form or certification previously delivered pursuant to this Section 2.17(f) (to the extent it is legally eligible to do so). If any form or certification previously delivered pursuant to this Section expires or becomes obsolete or inaccurate in any respect with respect to a Lender, such Lender shall promptly (and in any event within 10 days after such expiration, obsolescence or inaccuracy) notify such Borrower and the Administrative Agent in writing of such expiration, obsolescence or inaccuracy and update the form or certification if it is legally eligible to do so.
Status of Lenders
     (ii) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if the Applicable Borrower is a U.S. Person, any Lender with respect to such Borrower shall, if it is legally eligible to do so, deliver to such Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies reasonably requested by such Borrower and the Administrative Agent) on or
 
prior to the date on which such Lender becomes a party hereto, duly completed and executed copies of whichever of the following is applicable:
          (A) in the case of a Lender that is a U.S. Person, IRS Form W-9 certifying that such Lender is exempt from U.S. Federal backup withholding tax;
          (B) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender claiming the benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party (1) with respect to payments of interest under any this Agreement, IRS Form W-8BEN establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. Federal withholding Tax pursuant to the "interest" article of such tax treaty and (2) with respect to any other applicable payments under this Agreement, IRS Form W-8BEN establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. Federal withholding Tax pursuant to the "business profits" or "other income" article of such tax treaty;
          (C) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender for whom payments under this Agreement constitute income that is effectively connected with such Lender's conduct of a trade or business in the United States, IRS Form W-8ECI;
          (D) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the Code both (1) IRS Form W-8BEN and (2) a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit E (a "") to the effect that such Lender is not (a) a "bank" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (b) a "10 percent shareholder" of any Borrower within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code (c) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (d) conducting a trade or business in the United States with which the relevant interest payments are effectively connected;
U.S. Tax Certificate
          (E) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender that is not the beneficial owner of payments made under this Agreement (including a partnership or a participating Lender) (1) an IRS Form W-8IMY on behalf of itself and (2) the relevant forms prescribed in clauses (A), (B), (C), (D) and (F) of this paragraph (f)(ii) that would be required of each such beneficial owner or partner of such partnership if such beneficial owner or partner were a Lender; , , that if the Lender is a partnership and one or more of its partners are claiming the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the Code, such Lender may provide a U.S. Tax Certificate on behalf of such partners; or
provided
however
          (F) any other form prescribed by law as a basis for claiming exemption from, or a reduction of, U.S. Federal withholding Tax together with such supplementary documentation necessary to enable the Applicable Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine the amount of Tax (if any) required by law to be withheld.
     (iii) If a payment made to a Lender under this Agreement would be subject to U.S. Federal withholding Tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Withholding Agent, at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times
 
reasonably requested by the Withholding Agent, such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by the Withholding Agent as may be necessary for the Withholding Agent to comply with its obligations under FATCA, to determine that such Lender has or has not complied with such Lender's obligations under FATCA and, as necessary, to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment. Solely for purposes of this Section 2.17(f)(iii), "FATCA" shall include any amendments made to FATCA after the date of this Agreement.
          (g) . If any party determines, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that it has received a refund of any Taxes as to which it has been indemnified pursuant to this Section 2.17 (including additional amounts paid pursuant to this Section 2.17), it shall pay to the indemnifying party an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made under this Section with respect to the Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses (including any Taxes) of such indemnified party and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund). Such indemnifying party, upon the request of such indemnified party, shall repay to such indemnified party the amount paid to such indemnified party pursuant to the previous sentence (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) in the event such indemnified party is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 2.17(g), in no event will any indemnified party be required to pay any amount to any indemnifying party pursuant to this Section 2.17(g) if such payment would place such indemnified party in a less favorable position (on a net after-Tax basis) than such indemnified party would have been in if the indemnification payments or additional amounts giving rise to such refund had never been paid. This Section 2.17(g) shall not be construed to require any indemnified party to make available its Tax returns (or any other information relating to its Taxes which it deems confidential) to the indemnifying party or any other Person.
Treatment of Certain Refunds
          (h) . Each party's obligations under this Section 2.17 shall survive any assignment of rights by, or the replacement of, a Lender, the termination of the Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all other obligations under the Credit Documents.
Survival
          (i) . For purposes of paragraphs (e) and (f) of this Section, the term "Lender" includes any Issuing Bank.
Issuing Bank
          SECTION 2.18. . (a) Each Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest, fees or reimbursement of LC Disbursements, or of amounts payable under Section 2.15, 2.16 or 2.17, or otherwise) prior to 12:00 noon, Local Time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set off or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent at its offices at 10 South Dearborn, Floor 7, Chicago, Illinois 60603, except payments to be made directly to any Issuing Bank or Swingline Lender as expressly provided herein and except that payments pursuant to Sections
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-offs
 
2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 9.03 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder of (i) principal or interest in respect of any Loan shall be made in the currency in which such Loan is denominated, (ii) reimbursement obligations shall be made in the currency in which the Letter of Credit in respect of which such reimbursement obligation exists is denominated or (iii) any other amount due hereunder or under another Credit Document shall be made in Dollars. Any payment required to be made by the Administrative Agent hereunder shall be deemed to have been made by the time required if the Administrative Agent shall at or before such time have taken the necessary steps to make such payment in accordance with the regulations or operating procedures of the clearing or settlement system used by the Administrative Agent to make such payment.
          (b) So long as no Event of Default exists, all payments by any Borrower hereunder shall be applied as directed by such Borrower ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of payments then due to such parties. If at any time during the existence of an Event of Default insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, unreimbursed LC Disbursements, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due to such parties.
          (c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Revolving Loans or participations in LC Disbursements or Swingline Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans of other Lenders without recourse or warranty from the other Lenders except as contemplated by Section 9.04 in respect of assignments to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans; that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by any Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans or participations in LC Disbursements to any assignee or participant, other than to the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof
provided
 
(as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). Each Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against such Borrower rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of such Borrower in the amount of such participation.
          (d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Applicable Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or any Issuing Bank hereunder that the Applicable Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Applicable Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Applicable Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the applicable Issuing Bank, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or Issuing Bank with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, (i) at the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation (in the case of an amount denominated in Dollars) and (ii) the rate reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent to be the cost to it of funding such amount (in the case of an amount denominated in a Foreign Currency).
          (e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.05(c), 2.06(d) or (e), 2.07(b), 2.18(d) or 9.03(c), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion and notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender and for the benefit of the Administrative Agent or the applicable Issuing Bank to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid in any order determined by the Administrative Agent in its discretion.
          SECTION 2.19. . (a) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.15, or if any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.17, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.15 or 2.17, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Company hereby agrees to pay, or to cause the Applicable Borrower to pay, all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
          (b) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.15, or if any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.17, or if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the Company may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in
 
accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (i) the Company shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent (and if a Commitment is being assigned, each Issuing Bank), which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrowers (in the case of all other amounts) and (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.15 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.17, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Company to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
provided
          SECTION 2.20. .
Subsidiary Borrowers
          (a) The Company may, at any time or from time to time, designate any Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of the Company that is a Foreign Subsidiary as a "Subsidiary Borrower" hereunder by furnishing to the Administrative Agent a Designation Letter in duplicate, duly completed and executed by the Company and such Wholly-Owned Subsidiary, together with the items described in Section 4.01(e) and (f) relating to such Subsidiary Borrower in substantially the same form and scope as those delivered with respect to any Subsidiary Borrower designated on the date of this Agreement (or, as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require if there were no such deliveries) and such other documents as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of any such designation by the Company and the Company shall promptly furnish any related "know your customer" information requested by any Lender. Upon such designation and the approval of the Administrative Agent and each Lender thereof (which approval each Lender shall use commercially reasonable efforts to grant within ten (10) Business Days unless such Lender has in good faith determined that there exists a practical or legal impediment to its performance as a Lender with respect to such Foreign Subsidiary (or that it would incur any incremental expense as a result of such designation for which it would not be entitled to be compensated hereunder)), such designated Foreign Subsidiary shall become a Subsidiary Borrower hereunder (with the related rights and obligations) and shall be entitled to request Revolving Loans on and subject to the terms and conditions of, and to the extent provided in, this Agreement.
          (b) So long as all Loans made to any Subsidiary Borrower and any related obligations have been paid in full, the Company may terminate the status of such Subsidiary Borrower as a Subsidiary Borrower hereunder by furnishing to the Administrative Agent a Termination Letter in duplicate, duly completed and executed by the Company and such Subsidiary. Any Termination Letter furnished hereunder shall be effective upon receipt by the Administrative Agent, which shall promptly notify the Lenders. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the delivery of a Termination Letter with respect to any Subsidiary Borrower shall not terminate (i) any obligation of such Subsidiary Borrower that remains unpaid at the time of such delivery
 
or (ii) the obligations of the Company under the Parent Guaranty or any Subsidiary Guarantor under the Subsidiary Guaranty with respect to any such unpaid obligations.
          SECTION 2.21. . (a) For so long as any Lender is required to comply with (i) the requirements of the Bank of England and/or the Financial Services Authority (or, in either case, any other authority which replaces all or any of its functions) or (ii) the requirements of the European Central Bank, in each case in respect of such Lender's Eurocurrency Loans, such Lender shall be entitled to require the Applicable Borrower to pay, contemporaneously with each payment of interest on each of such Loans, additional interest on such Loan at a rate per annum equal to the Mandatory Costs Rate calculated in accordance with the formula and in the manner set forth in hereto.
Additional Reserve Costs
Exhibit D
          (b) Each Applicable Borrower shall pay to each Lender, as long as such Lender shall be required to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency funds or deposits (currently known as "Eurocurrency liabilities"), additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurocurrency Loan equal to the actual costs of such reserves allocated to such Loan by such Lender.
          (c) Any additional interest owed pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section shall be determined by the applicable Lender, which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and notified to the Applicable Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) at least five Business Days before each date on which interest is payable for the applicable Loan, and such additional interest so notified to the Applicable Borrower by such Lender shall be due and payable to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender on each date on which interest is payable for such Loan. If a Lender fails to give such notice at least five Business Days before such date, then such additional interest shall be due and payable five Business Days after such notice is given.
          SECTION 2.22. .
Defaulting Lenders
          Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the following provisions shall apply for so long as such Lender is a Defaulting Lender:
          (a) fees shall cease to accrue on the unfunded portion of the Commitment of such Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 2.12(a);
          (b) the Commitment and Revolving Credit Exposure of such Defaulting Lender shall not be included in determining whether the Required Lenders have taken or may take any action hereunder (including any consent to any amendment or waiver pursuant to Section 9.02); that this clause (b) shall not apply to the vote of a Defaulting Lender in the case of an amendment, waiver or other modification that proposes to (i) extend the scheduled maturity date of any principal of any Loan of such Lender or extend the date for payment of any interest on any Loan of such Lender or any fees payable to such Lender hereunder, (ii) increase or extend the Commitment of such Lender or (iii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan of such Lender or the rate of interest thereon (except for the waiver of any default rate) or any fees payable to such Lender hereunder;
provided
 
          (c) if any Swingline Exposure or LC Exposure exists at the time a Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender then:
     (i) all or any part of such Swingline Exposure and LC Exposure shall be reallocated among the non-Defaulting Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages but only to the extent (x) the sum of all non-Defaulting Lenders' Revolving Credit Exposures plus such Defaulting Lender's Swingline Exposure and LC Exposure does not exceed the total of all non-Defaulting Lenders' Commitments and (y) the conditions set forth in Section 4.02 are satisfied at such time;
     (ii) if the reallocation described in clause (i) above cannot, or can only partially, be effected, the Company shall within one Business Day following notice by the Administrative Agent (x) first, prepay such Swingline Exposure and (y) second, cash collateralize for the benefit of any Issuing Bank only the Borrowers' obligations corresponding to such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure (after giving effect to any partial reallocation pursuant to clause (i) above) in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.06(j) for so long as such LC Exposure is outstanding;
     (iii) if the Company cash collateralizes any portion of such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure pursuant to clause (ii) above, the Company shall not be required to pay any fees to such Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 2.12(b) with respect to such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure during the period such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure is cash collateralized;
     (iv) if the LC Exposure of the non-Defaulting Lenders is reallocated pursuant to clause (i) above, then the fees payable to the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.12(a) and Section 2.12(b) shall be adjusted in accordance with such non-Defaulting Lenders' Applicable Percentages; or
     (v) if all or any portion of such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure is neither cash collateralized nor reallocated pursuant to clause (i) or (ii) above, then, without prejudice to any rights or remedies of any Issuing Bank or any other Lender hereunder, all letter of credit fees payable under Section 2.12(b) with respect to such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure shall be payable to the applicable Issuing Bank until such LC Exposure is cash collateralized and/or reallocated; and
          (d) the Swingline Lender shall not be required to fund any Swingline Loan, and the Issuing Bank shall not be required to issue, amend or increase any Letter of Credit, unless it is satisfied that the related exposure and such Defaulting Lender's then outstanding LC Exposure will be 100% covered by the Commitments of the non-Defaulting Lenders and/or cash collateral will be provided by the Company in accordance with Section 2.22(c), and participating interests in any such newly issued or increased Letter of Credit or newly made Swingline Loan shall be allocated among non-Defaulting Lenders in a manner consistent with Section 2.22(c)(i) (and such Defaulting Lender shall not participate therein).
          In the event that the Administrative Agent, the Company, the Issuing Banks and the Swingline Lender each agrees that a Defaulting Lender has adequately remedied all matters
 
that caused such Lender to be a Defaulting Lender, then the Swingline Exposure and LC Exposure of the Lenders shall be readjusted to reflect the inclusion of such Lender's Commitment and on such date such Lender shall purchase at par such of the Loans of the other Lenders (other than Swingline Loans) as the Administrative Agent shall determine may be necessary in order for such Lender to hold such Loans in accordance with its Applicable Percentage.
          The Company represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
          SECTION 3.01. . Each of the Company and each Subsidiary is duly organized, validly existing and, to the extent such concept is applicable, in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted and, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, is qualified to do business in, and is in good standing in, every jurisdiction where such qualification is required.
Organization; Powers
          SECTION 3.02. . The Transactions are within the Borrowers' organizational powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary organizational and, if required, stockholder action. As of the Effective Date (or such later date (including the Second Amendment Effective Date) as any Credit Document is to be executed and delivered in accordance with the terms hereof), each Credit Party has duly executed and delivered each of the Credit Documents to which it is a party, and each of such Credit Documents constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation enforceable in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that the enforceability thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
Authorization; Enforceability
          SECTION 3.03. . The Transactions (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with, or any other action by, any Governmental Authority, except such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (b) will not violate any applicable law or regulation that is binding on the Company or any Subsidiary or the charter, by-laws, memorandum or articles of association or other organizational documents of the Company or any Subsidiary or any order of any Governmental Authority, (c) will not violate or result in a default under any material indenture, agreement or other instrument binding upon the Company or any Subsidiary or on any of their respective assets, or give rise to a right thereunder to require any payment to be made by the Company or any Subsidiary, and (d) will not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of the Company or any Subsidiary (other than Liens granted pursuant to the Credit Documents).
Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts
          SECTION 3.04. . (a) The Company has heretofore furnished to the Lenders its consolidated balance sheet and statements
Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change
 
of income, stockholders equity and cash flows (i) as of and for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, reported on by Ernst & Young LLP, independent public accountants, and (ii) as of and for the fiscal quarter and the portion of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, certified by its President, a Vice President thereof or a Financial Officer. Such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of such dates and for such periods in accordance with GAAP, subject to year end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes in the case of the statements referred to in clause (ii) above.
          (b) Since June 30, 2010, there has been no material adverse change in the business, assets, properties, operations, or financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
          SECTION 3.05. . (a) Each of the Company and each Subsidiary has good title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all its real and personal property material to its business, except for minor defects in title that do not interfere with its ability to conduct its business as currently conducted or to utilize such properties for their intended purposes.
Properties
          (b) Each of the Company and each Subsidiary owns, or is licensed to use, all trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property material to its business, and the use thereof by the Company and its Subsidiaries does not infringe upon the rights of any other Person, except for any such infringements that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
          SECTION 3.06. . (a) Except as disclosed in the Company's Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the quarterly period ending December 31, 2010, there are no actions, suits or proceedings by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against or affecting the Company or any Subsidiary (i) as to which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse determination and that, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) that involve any Credit Document or the Transactions.
Litigation and Environmental Matters
          (b) Except with respect to any other matters that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, neither the Company nor any Subsidiary (i) has failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law, (ii) has become subject to any Environmental Liability, (iii) has received notice of any claim with respect to any Environmental Liability or (iv) knows of any basis for any Environmental Liability.
          SECTION 3.07. . Each of the Company and each Subsidiary is in compliance with (a) the charter, by-laws, memorandum or articles of association or other organizational documents applicable to it and (b) all laws, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property, except, in each case, where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. No Default has occurred and is continuing.
Compliance with Organizational Documents and Laws
 
Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is subject to any charter or other corporate restriction which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
          SECTION 3.08. . Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940.
Investment Company Status
          SECTION 3.09. . Each of the Company and each Subsidiary has timely filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns and reports required to have been filed and has paid or caused to be paid all Taxes required to have been paid by it, except (a) Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which the Company or such Subsidiary, as applicable, has set aside on its books adequate reserves or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Taxes
          SECTION 3.10. . (a) No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events for which liability is reasonably expected to occur, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
ERISA
          (b) The amount (the "") by which the present value of all accumulated benefit obligations of all Plans (based on the assumptions used for purposes of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87), as of the date of the most recent financial statements reflecting such amounts, exceeds the fair market value of the assets of all Plans does not, when aggregated with the Foreign Underfunding Amount (as defined in Section 3.12(b)), exceed $150,000,000.
Domestic Underfunding Amount
          SECTION 3.11. . As of the Effective Date and, except as disclosed in the Company's Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the quarterly period ending December 31, 2010, as of the Second Amendment Effective Date, the Company has disclosed to the Lenders all agreements, instruments and corporate or other restrictions to which it or any Subsidiary is subject, and all other matters known to it, that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. None of the reports, financial statements, certificates or other information furnished by or on behalf of the Company to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that, with respect to projected financial information, the Company represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time.
Disclosure
provided
          SECTION 3.12. . (a) Except to the extent the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, (i) each Foreign Pension Plan has been maintained in substantial compliance with its terms and in substantial compliance with the requirements of any and all applicable laws, statutes, rules, regulations and orders (including all funding requirements and the respective requirements of the governing documents for each such Foreign Pension Plan) and has been maintained, where required, in good standing
Foreign Pension Plans
 
with applicable regulatory authorities and (ii) all contributions required to be made with respect to a Foreign Pension Plan have been timely made. Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary has incurred any obligation in connection with the termination of or withdrawal from any Foreign Pension Plan that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. No actions or proceedings have been taken or instituted to terminate or wind-up a Foreign Pension Plan that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
          (b) The Dollar Equivalent of the amount (the "") by which the present value of the accrued benefit liabilities (whether or not vested) under all Foreign Pension Plans, determined as of the end of the Company's most recently ended fiscal year on the basis of actuarial assumptions, each of which is reasonable, exceeds the current value of the assets of all Foreign Pension Plans allocable to such benefit liabilities does not, when aggregated with the Domestic Underfunding Amount, exceed $150,000,000.
Foreign Underfunding Amount
          SECTION 3.13. . As of the Second Amendment Effective Date, the Company has no Subsidiaries other than those Subsidiaries listed on . correctly sets forth, as of the Second Amendment Effective Date, the jurisdiction of organization of each Subsidiary. correctly identifies those Subsidiaries which constitute Material Subsidiaries as of the Second Amendment Effective Date.
Subsidiaries
Schedule 3.13
Schedule 3.13
Schedule 3.13
          SECTION 3.14. . In the ordinary course of its business, the officers of the Company consider the effect of Environmental Laws on the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries, in the course of which they identify and evaluate potential risks and liabilities accruing to the Company due to Environmental Laws. On the basis of this consideration, the Company has concluded that Environmental Laws cannot reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary has received any notice to the effect that its operations are not in material compliance with any of the requirements of applicable Environmental Laws or are the subject of any federal or state investigation evaluating whether any remedial action is needed to respond to a release of any toxic or hazardous waste or substance into the environment, which non-compliance or remedial action could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Environmental Matters
          SECTION 3.15. . Margin stock (as defined in Regulation U of the Board) constitutes less than 25% of the value of those assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries which are subject to any limitation on sale or pledge or any other restriction hereunder. None of the making of any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof, the issuance of any Letter of Credit hereunder or any other aspect of the Transactions hereunder will violate or be inconsistent with the provisions of Regulation T, Regulation U or Regulation X of the Board.
Regulation U
          SECTION 4.01. . The obligations of the Lenders to make Loans and of the Issuing Banks to issue Letters of Credit hereunder shall not become effective until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02):
Effective Date
 
          (a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each party hereto either (i) a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of such party or (ii) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy or email transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Agreement.
          (b) The Borrowers shall have duly executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent (or its counsel) a note payable to each applicable Lender that has requested a note in the amount of its respective Commitment and all other Credit Documents shall have been duly executed and delivered by the appropriate Credit Party to the Administrative Agent (or its counsel), all of which shall be in full force and effect.
          (c) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each Subsidiary Guarantor a duly executed and delivered Subsidiary Guaranty.
          (d) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from the Company a duly executed and delivered Parent Guaranty.
          (e) The Administrative Agent shall have received a favorable written opinion (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the Effective Date) of Mayer Brown LLP, counsel for the Borrowers, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and covering such other matters relating to the Borrowers, this Agreement or the Transactions as the Required Lenders shall reasonably request. The Company hereby requests such counsel to deliver such opinion.
          (f) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and, to the extent such concept is applicable, good standing of the Borrowers, the authorization of the Transactions and any other legal matters relating to the Borrowers, this Agreement or the Transactions, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
          (g) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, dated the Effective Date and signed by the President, a Vice President or a Financial Officer of the Company, confirming compliance with the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02.
          (h) The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the Effective Date, including, to the extent invoiced, reimbursement or payment of all out of pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Company hereunder.
          (i) The Administrative Agent shall have received copies of all Governmental Authority and third party approvals necessary or, in the reasonable discretion of the Administrative Agent, advisable in connection with the Transactions and all other documents reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent.
 
          (j) The Administrative Agent shall have received evidence satisfactory to it that all amounts owing under any existing bilateral credit agreement of the Company (but not of any Subsidiary) with any Lender have been (or concurrently with the effectiveness hereof will be) paid in full.
          (k) If applicable, the Administrative Agent shall have received a Designation Letter for any Subsidiary Borrower being designated as such as of the Effective Date.
The Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders of the Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans and of the Issuing Banks to issue Letters of Credit hereunder shall not become effective unless each of the foregoing conditions is satisfied (or waived pursuant to Section 9.02) at or prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on June 25, 2009 (and, in the event such conditions are not so satisfied or waived, the Commitments shall terminate at such time).
          SECTION 4.02. . The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing, and of each Issuing Bank to issue, amend, renew or extend any Letter of Credit, is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Each Credit Event
     (a) The representations and warranties of the Company set forth in this Agreement shall be true and correct in all material respects (except that any representation or warranty which is already qualified as to materiality or by reference to Material Adverse Effect shall be true and correct in all respects) on and as of the date of such Borrowing or the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable (except any such representation or warranty that expressly relates to or is made expressly as of a specific earlier date, in which case such representation or warranty shall be true and correct in all material respects (except that any representation or warranty which is already qualified as to materiality or by reference to Material Adverse Effect shall be true and correct in all respects) with respect to or as of such specific earlier date).
     (b) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing or the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Each Borrowing and each issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Company on the date thereof as to the matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section.
          Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder shall have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit shall have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, the Company covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
 
          SECTION 5.01. . The Company will furnish to the Administrative Agent:
Financial Statements; Ratings Changes and Other Information
     (a) within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, its audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all reported on by Ernst & Young LLP or other independent public accountants of recognized national standing (without a "going concern" or like qualification or exception and without any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit) to the effect that such consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied;
     (b) within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Company, its consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such fiscal quarter and the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of (or, in the case of the balance sheet, as of the end of) the previous fiscal year, all certified by one of its Financial Officers as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes;
     (c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause (a) or (b) above, a certificate of a Financial Officer of the Company (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and, if a Default has occurred, specifying the details thereof and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto, (ii) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with Sections 6.09 and 6.10 and (iii) stating whether any change in GAAP or in the application thereof has occurred since the date of the audited financial statements referred to in Section 3.04 and, if any such change has occurred, specifying the effect of such change on the financial statements accompanying such certificate;
     (d) promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all periodic and other reports, proxy statements and other materials filed by the Company or any Subsidiary with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any or all of the functions of said Commission, or with any national securities exchange, or distributed by the Company to its shareholders generally, as the case may be;
     (e) within 60 days following the first day of each fiscal year of the Company a copy of the investor outlook presentation prepared by the Company for such fiscal year, which shall be accompanied by the statement of a Financial Officer of the Company to the effect that, to the best of his or her knowledge at the time made, such presentation is a reasonable estimate for the periods covered thereby; and
 
     (f) promptly following any request therefor, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial condition of the Company or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of this Agreement, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may reasonably request.
     Information required to be delivered pursuant to this Section 5.01 shall be deemed to have been delivered if such information, or one or more annual or quarterly reports containing such information, shall have been posted by the Administrative Agent on an IntraLinks or similar site to which the Lenders have been granted access or such reports shall be available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission at or on the Company's website at and the Company has given notice that such reports are so available. Information required to be delivered pursuant to this Section may also be delivered by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent.
http://www.sec.gov
http://www.molex.com
          SECTION 5.02. . The Company will furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender prompt written notice of the following:
Notices of Material Events
     (a) the occurrence of any Default;
     (b) the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority against or affecting the Company or any Affiliate thereof as to which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse determination and that, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
     (c) the occurrence of any ERISA Event that, alone or together with any other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Company and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount exceeding $10,000,000; and
     (d) any other development that results in, or could reasonably be expected to result in, a Material Adverse Effect.
Each notice delivered under this Section 5.02 shall be accompanied by a statement of a Financial Officer or other executive officer of the Company setting forth the details of the event or development requiring such notice and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto.
          SECTION 5.03. . The Company will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its legal existence and the rights, licenses, permits, privileges and franchises material to the conduct of its business; that the foregoing shall not prohibit any merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution permitted under Section 6.03.
Existence; Conduct of Business
provided
          SECTION 5.04. . The Company will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, pay its obligations, including Tax liabilities but excluding Indebtedness, that, if not paid, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect before the same shall become delinquent or in default, except where (a) the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, (b) the Company or such Subsidiary has set
Payment of Obligations
 
aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP and (c) the failure to make payment pending such contest could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
          SECTION 5.05. . The Company will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, (a) use reasonable commercial efforts to keep and maintain all property material to the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, and (b) maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, insurance in such amounts and against such risks as are customarily maintained by companies engaged in the same or similar businesses operating in the same or similar locations.
Maintenance of Properties; Insurance
          SECTION 5.06. . The Company will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries are made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities. The Company will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, upon reasonable prior notice and during normal business hours, to visit and inspect its properties, to examine and make extracts from its books and records, and to discuss its affairs, finances and condition with its officers and independent accountants, all at such reasonable times and as often as reasonably requested; that (a) so long as no Default exists, no Lender shall have the right to make more than two such visits or inspections in any year, (b) each Lender shall coordinate its activities pursuant to this Section 5.06 with the Administrative Agent so as to minimize the number of visits by Lenders and avoid disruption to the businesses of the Company and its Subsidiaries and (c) the Company shall have the right to have representatives present at and participate in any discussions with any independent accountants.
Books and Records; Inspection Rights
provided
          SECTION 5.07. . The Company will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws
          SECTION 5.08. . The proceeds of the Loans will be used only for general corporate purposes of the Company and its Subsidiaries, including the refinancing of certain credit facilities of Molex Japan. No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used, whether directly or indirectly, for any purpose that entails a violation of any of the Regulations of the Board, including Regulations T, U and X. Letters of Credit will be issued only in support of the foregoing purposes.
Use of Proceeds and Letters of Credit
          SECTION 5.09. .
Additional Guarantors
     (a) Effective upon any Domestic Subsidiary which is not a Material Subsidiary on the Second Amendment Effective Date (either because it is not a Subsidiary on the date hereof or because it does not on the date hereof meet the criteria for a Material Subsidiary) becoming a Material Subsidiary, the Company shall cause such Domestic Subsidiary to, within 10 Business Days (or such longer period to which the Administrative Agent may agree), execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties a joinder to the Subsidiary Guaranty reasonably
 
acceptable to the Administrative Agent together with a legal opinion and such related certificates and corporate documents as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request. The Company shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent at any time at which any Domestic Subsidiary becomes a Material Subsidiary.
     (b) If, following a change in the relevant sections of the Code or the regulations, rules, rulings, notices or other official pronouncements issued or promulgated thereunder, the Company does not within 30 days after a request from the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders deliver evidence, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which evidence may be in the form of an opinion of counsel), with respect to any Subsidiary Borrower which has not already become party to the Subsidiary Guaranty, that the entering into by such Subsidiary Borrower of a guaranty in substantially the form of the Subsidiary Guaranty could reasonably be expected to cause (i) any undistributed earnings of such Subsidiary Borrower or its parent as determined for Federal income tax purposes to be treated as a deemed dividend to such Subsidiary Borrower's direct or indirect United States parent for Federal income tax purposes or (ii) other Federal income tax consequences to the Credit Parties having an adverse financial consequence to any Credit Party, then in the case of a failure to deliver the evidence described above, such Subsidiary Borrower shall promptly execute and deliver the Subsidiary Guaranty (or another guaranty in substantially similar form, if needed), guaranteeing the obligations of the other Borrowers under the Credit Documents and under any Swap Agreement entered into with a Guaranteed Party, in each case to the extent that the entering into of a Subsidiary Guaranty is permitted by the laws of the respective foreign jurisdiction and with all documents delivered pursuant to this Section 5.09(b) to be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
          Until the Commitments have expired or terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, the Company covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
          SECTION 6.01. . The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness, except:
Indebtedness
          (a) Indebtedness under the Credit Documents;
          (b) Indebtedness existing on, or arising under lines of credit existing on (or anticipated to be entered into shortly after), the Second Amendment Effective Date, in each case as set forth on , and extensions, renewals and replacements of any such Indebtedness that do not increase the outstanding principal or committed amount thereof except as contemplated by such Schedule;
Schedule 6.01
 
          (c) intercompany Indebtedness arising out of loans or advances permitted by Section 6.04(c), (k) or (l);
          (d) Guarantees of Indebtedness of the Company or any Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company to the extent permitted by Section 6.04(c), (k) or (l);
          (e) Entrust Indebtedness;
          (f) Factoring Indebtedness of Molex Japan in an aggregate principal amount at no time exceeding $35,000,000;
          (g) contingent obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary under letters of credit issued and letters of guaranty obtained to support underlying obligations that do not constitute Indebtedness so long as the aggregate amount of all such contingent obligations (excluding obligations permitted by another provision of this Section 6.01) do not at any time exceed $25,000,000;
          (h) Indebtedness of the Company or any Subsidiary as an account party in respect of ordinary course of business trade letters of credit;
          (i) other Indebtedness of External Subsidiaries in an aggregate outstanding principal amount at no time exceeding $100,000,000; and
          (j) other Indebtedness (including Guarantees) of the Credit Parties so long as, both before and after giving effect to the incurrence of such Indebtedness, the Company is in Pro Forma Compliance.
          SECTION 6.02. . The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, or assign or sell any income or revenues (including accounts receivable) or rights in respect of any thereof, except:
Liens
     (a) Permitted Encumbrances;
     (b) any Lien on any asset of the Company or any Subsidiary existing on the Second Amendment Effective Date and set forth in ; that (i) such Lien shall not apply to any asset of the Company or any Subsidiary other than the assets described on such Schedule (and the proceeds thereof) and (ii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the Second Amendment Effective Date and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof;
Schedule 6.02
provided
     (c) any Lien existing on any asset prior to the acquisition thereof by the Company or any Subsidiary or existing on any asset of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof prior to the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary; that (i) such Lien is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such acquisition or such Person becoming a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (ii) such Lien shall not apply to any other assets of the Company or any Subsidiary and (iii) such Lien shall
provided
 
secure only those obligations which it secures on the date of such acquisition or the date such Person becomes a Subsidiary, as the case may be and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof;
     (d) Liens on fixed assets acquired, constructed or improved by the Company or any Subsidiary; that (i) such security interests secure Indebtedness (including Capital Lease Obligations) at no time exceeding $35,000,000 in aggregate outstanding principal amount, (ii) such security interests and the Indebtedness secured thereby are incurred prior to or within 90 days after such acquisition or the completion of such construction or improvement, (iii) the Indebtedness secured thereby does not exceed 100% of the cost of acquiring, constructing or improving such fixed assets and (iv) such security interests shall apply only to such fixed assets and proceeds thereof;
provided
     (e) Liens arising out of and securing Entrust Indebtedness;
     (f) Liens in factored receivables securing Factoring Indebtedness permitted by Section 6.01(f); and
     (g) other Liens securing obligations at no time exceeding $35,000,000 in aggregate principal amount.
          SECTION 6.03. . (a) The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, merge into or consolidate with any other Person, or permit any other Person to merge into or consolidate with it, or liquidate or dissolve, except that, if at the time thereof and immediately after giving effect thereto no Default shall have occurred and be continuing (i) any Person may merge into the Company in a transaction in which the Company is the surviving corporation, (ii) any Person may merge into any Subsidiary in a transaction in which the surviving entity is a Subsidiary (and, if either such Subsidiary is a Subsidiary Guarantor, then the surviving entity shall also be a Subsidiary Guarantor) and (iii) any Subsidiary may liquidate or dissolve if the Company determines in good faith that such liquidation or dissolution is in the best interests of the Company and is not materially disadvantageous to the Lenders; that any such merger involving a Person that is not a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary immediately prior to such merger shall not be permitted unless also permitted by Section 6.04.
Fundamental Changes
provided
          (b) The Company will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary to, make any Asset Disposition except for (i) Asset Dispositions among Credit Parties, (ii) Asset Dispositions among External Subsidiaries, (iii) Asset Dispositions from External Subsidiaries to Credit Parties, (iv) Asset Dispositions expressly permitted by Section 6.04(a) through (l) or Section 6.06, (v) transfers of accounts receivable (and rights ancillary thereto) of Molex Japan pursuant to, and in accordance with the terms of, the factoring agreement pursuant to which the Factoring Indebtedness referred to in Section 6.01(f) is incurred, and (vi) other Asset Dispositions (including pursuant to the last sentence of Section 6.04) of property that, together with all other property of the Company and its Subsidiaries previously leased, sold or disposed of in Asset Dispositions made pursuant to this Section 6.03(b)(vi) during the twelve-month period ending with the month in which any such lease, sale or other disposition occurs, do not constitute a Substantial Portion of the property of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
 
          (c) The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, engage to any material extent in any business other than businesses of the type conducted by the Company and its Subsidiaries on the date of execution of this Agreement and businesses reasonably related thereto.
          SECTION 6.04. . The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, purchase, hold or acquire (including pursuant to any merger with any Person that was not a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary prior to such merger) any capital stock, evidences of indebtedness or other securities (including any option, warrant or other right to acquire any of the foregoing) of, make or permit to exist any loans or advances to, Guarantee any obligations of, or make or permit to exist any investment or any other interest in, any other Person, or purchase or otherwise acquire (in one transaction or a series of transactions) any assets of any other Person constituting a business unit, except:
Investments, Loans, Advances, Guarantees and Acquisitions
          (a) Permitted Investments;
          (b) existing investments in Subsidiaries and other investments, loans and advances existing (or required to be made pursuant to existing commitments) on the Second Amendment Effective Date and described in ;
Schedule 6.04
          (c) loans, advances, investments or Guarantees made by the Company to, in or in respect of the obligations of any Subsidiary or made by any Subsidiary to, in or in respect of the obligations of the Company or any other Subsidiary; , that the aggregate amount of all outstanding loans, advances and Guarantees and the amount of all investments, in each case made in reliance on this clause (c), shall at no time exceed the total of (i) $150,000,000 plus (ii) the aggregate net cash proceeds of any sale or liquidation by any Credit Party of any such investment or of any repayment to any Credit Party of any such loan or advance, in each case previously made in reliance on this clause (c) (not to exceed the initial cost of such investment or the principal amount of such loan or advance);
provided
          (d) Guarantees constituting Indebtedness permitted by Section 6.01 subject, in the case of intercompany Guarantees, to the limitations set forth in Sections 6.04(c), (k) or (l);
          (e) subject to the provisions of this Section 6.04(e) and the requirements contained in the definition of Permitted Acquisition, the Company and its Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries may from time to time effect Permitted Acquisitions, so long as: (i) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of the consummation of the proposed Permitted Acquisition or immediately after giving effect thereto; (ii) immediately after giving pro forma effect to such proposed Permitted Acquisition and any Indebtedness to be incurred in connection therewith, the Company is in Pro Forma Compliance; (iii) if the proposed Permitted Acquisition is for aggregate consideration of $50,000,000 or more, the Company shall have given to the Administrative Agent written notice of such proposed Permitted Acquisition on the earlier of (x) the date on which the Permitted Acquisition is publicly announced and (y) ten (10) Business Days prior to consummation of such Permitted Acquisition (or such shorter period of time as may be reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent), which notice shall be executed by the President, a Vice President or a Financial Officer of the Company and (A) shall describe in reasonable detail the principal terms and conditions of such Permitted Acquisition and (B)
 
include computations in reasonable detail reflecting that the Company is in Pro Forma Compliance as required by clause (ii) of this Section 6.04(e); and (iv) at the time of any such Permitted Acquisition involving the creation or acquisition of a Subsidiary, or the acquisition of capital stock or other Equity Interest of any Person, the Company and its Subsidiaries shall have complied with Section 5.09;
          (f) investments constituting Entrust Indebtedness;
          (g) bank deposits in the ordinary course of business;
          (h) payroll, travel and similar advances in the ordinary course of business;
          (i) investments (including debt obligations) received in connection with the bankruptcy or reorganization of suppliers and customers and in good faith settlement of delinquent obligations, or other disputes with, customers and suppliers, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
          (j) investments (including debt obligations) arising in connection with the sale of assets;
          (k) other loans, advances, investments and Guarantees by the Credit Parties made after the Second Amendment Effective Date; , that the aggregate amount of all outstanding loans, advances and Guarantees and the amount of all investments, in each case made in reliance on this clause (k), shall at no time exceed the total of (i) $50,000,000 plus (ii) the aggregate net cash proceeds received by the Company or any Subsidiary in connection with the sale of its existing investment in Hi-P International Ltd. (iii) the aggregate net cash proceeds of any sale or liquidation by any Credit Party of any such investment or of any repayment to any Credit Party of any such loan or advance, in each case previously made in reliance on this clause (k) (not to exceed the initial cost of such investment or the principal amount of such loan or advance); and
provided
plus
          (l) other loans, advances, investments and Guarantees by External Subsidiaries made after the Second Amendment Effective Date; , that the aggregate amount of all outstanding loans, advances and Guarantees and the amount of all investments, in each case made in reliance on this clause (l), shall at no time exceed the total of (i) $100,000,000 plus (ii) the aggregate net cash proceeds of any sale or liquidation by any External Subsidiary of any such investment or of any repayment to any External Subsidiary of any such loan or advance, in each case previously made in reliance on this clause (l) (not to exceed the initial cost of such investment or the principal amount of such loan or advance).
provided
For purposes of this Section 6.04, Equity Interests in any Foreign Subsidiary transferred by a Credit Party to an External Subsidiary for bona fide tax planning purposes shall not be deemed an investment in such External Subsidiary; that any such transfer must otherwise be permitted pursuant to Section 6.03(b). For purposes of Sections 6.04(c), (k) and (l), (1) investments shall be valued at all times as the Dollar Equivalent thereof at the time made regardless of any subsequent change in the value or amount thereof due to appreciation, loss of value, currency fluctuation or otherwise or any dividends or similar distributions thereon (but giving effect to any redemption or other return of the capital amount of any such investment not
provided
 
exceeding the initial cost of such investment) and (2) loans, advances and Guarantees shall at all times be deemed to be in the Dollar Equivalent of the then outstanding amount thereof determined, in the case of any of the foregoing denominated in a Foreign Currency, using the Exchange Rate with respect to such Foreign Currency as of the time such loan, advance or Guarantee was made.
          SECTION 6.05. . The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, enter into any Swap Agreement, except (a) Swap Agreements entered into to hedge or mitigate risks to which the Company or any Subsidiary has actual exposure (other than those in respect of Equity Interests of the Company or any Subsidiary), and (b) Swap Agreements entered into in order to effectively cap, collar or exchange interest rates (from fixed to floating rates, from one floating rate to another floating rate or otherwise) with respect to any interest-bearing liability or investment of the Company or any Subsidiary.
Swap Agreements
          SECTION 6.06. . The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, declare, pay or make, or agree to declare, pay or make, directly or indirectly, any Restricted Payment, except (a) the Company may declare and pay dividends with respect to its Equity Interests payable solely in additional shares of its common stock, (b) Subsidiaries may declare and pay dividends ratably with respect to their Equity Interests, (c) so long as no Default exists immediately prior to or immediately after giving effect to any such Restricted Payment, the Company may make other Restricted Payments of up to $27,000,000 in the aggregate during any calendar quarter and (d) so long as no Default exists immediately prior to or immediately after giving effect to any such Restricted Payment, the Company may make other Restricted Payments (i) if after giving effect to such Restricted Payment, the Leverage Ratio (calculated based on EBITDA for the most recently ended period of four fiscal quarters of the Company for which financial statements are available (the "")) is less than 1.00:1.00, in amounts which, when added to all other Restricted Payments made by the Company during the one year period ending on the date of such Restricted Payment (including any Restricted Payments made in reliance on clause (c) of this Section 6.06), do not exceed 75% of the Reference EBITDA; and (ii) if after giving effect to such Restricted Payment, the Leverage Ratio (calculated based on the Reference EBITDA) is greater than or equal to 1.00:1.00, in amounts which, when added to all other Restricted Payments made by the Company during the one year period ending on the date of such Restricted Payment (including any Restricted Payments made in reliance on clause (c) of this Section 6.06), do not exceed 60% of the Reference EBITDA.
Restricted Payments
Reference EBITDA
          SECTION 6.07. . The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, sell, lease or otherwise transfer any assets to, or purchase, lease or otherwise acquire any assets from, or otherwise engage in any other transactions with, any of its Affiliates, except (a) in the ordinary course of business at prices and on terms and conditions not less favorable to the Company or such Subsidiary than could be obtained on an arm's-length basis from unrelated third parties, (b) transactions between or among Credit Parties and not involving any other Affiliate, (c) transactions between or among External Subsidiaries and not involving any other Affiliate, (d) transfers of assets which, pursuant to the last sentence of Section 6.04, do not constitute investments in External Subsidiaries and (e) any Restricted Payment permitted by Section 6.06.
Transactions with Affiliates
 
          SECTION 6.08. . The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly, enter into, incur or permit to exist any agreement or other arrangement that prohibits, restricts or imposes any condition upon (a) the ability of the Company or any Subsidiary to create, incur or permit to exist any Lien upon any of its assets to secure the obligations of the Borrowers hereunder or under any guaranty thereof, or (b) the ability of any Subsidiary to pay dividends or other distributions with respect to any shares of its capital stock or to make or repay loans or advances to the Company or any other Subsidiary or to Guarantee Indebtedness of the Company or any other Subsidiary; that (i) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions and conditions imposed by law or by this Agreement or any Swap Agreement with a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender that incorporates the covenants herein by reference, (ii) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions and conditions existing or anticipated on the Second Amendment Effective Date identified on (but shall apply to any extension or renewal of, or any amendment or modification of, any such restriction or condition expanding the scope thereof), (iii) the foregoing shall not apply to customary restrictions and conditions contained in agreements relating to the sale of a Subsidiary pending such sale, that such restrictions and conditions apply only to the Subsidiary that is to be sold and such sale is permitted hereunder, (iv) clause (a) of the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions or conditions imposed by any agreement relating to secured Indebtedness permitted by this Agreement if such restrictions or conditions apply only to the assets securing such Indebtedness and (v) clause (a) of the foregoing shall not apply to customary provisions in leases and other contracts restricting the assignment thereof.
Restrictive Agreements
provided
Schedule 6.08
provided
          SECTION 6.09. . The Company will not permit the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter of the Company to be less than 1.50:1.00.
Minimum Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
          SECTION 6.10. . The Company will not permit the Leverage Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter of the Company to be greater than 2.50:1.00.
Maximum Leverage Ratio
          SECTION 6.11. . The Company will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary to, change its fiscal year to end on any date other than June 30 of each year; , that any Subsidiary may change its fiscal year to end on December 31 of each year.
Fiscal Year
provided
          SECTION 6.12. . The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, make any amendment or modification to the indenture, note or other agreement evidencing or governing any subordinated Indebtedness or directly or indirectly voluntarily prepay, defease or in substance defease, purchase, redeem, retire or otherwise acquire, any subordinated Indebtedness prior to the date when due while a Default has occurred and is continuing or in violation of any relevant term of subordination.
Subordinated Indebtedness; Other Indebtedness and Payments
          If any of the following events ("") shall occur:
Events of Default
 
     (a) any Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan or any cash collateral amount due pursuant to Section 2.06(j) when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise;
     (b) any Borrower shall fail to pay any reimbursement obligation in respect of any LC Disbursement, any interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause (a) of this Article) payable under this Agreement, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of five days (or, in the case of LC Disbursements, three Business Days);
     (c) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Company or any Subsidiary in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Credit Document or any amendment or modification hereof or thereof or waiver hereunder or thereunder, or in any report, certificate, financial statement or other document furnished pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or any amendment or modification hereof or waiver hereunder, shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made;
     (d) the Company shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 5.02, 5.03 (with respect to the Company's existence) or 5.08 or in ;
Article VI
     (e) the Company shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in this Agreement (other than those specified in clause (a), (b) or (d) of this Article), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof from the Administrative Agent to the Company (which notice will be given at the request of any Lender);
     (f) the Company or any Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment (whether of principal or interest and regardless of amount) in respect of any Material Indebtedness, when and as the same shall become due and payable (subject to any applicable grace period);
     (g) any event or condition occurs that results in any Material Indebtedness becoming due prior to its scheduled maturity or that enables or permits (with or without the giving of notice, the lapse of time or both) the holder or holders of any Material Indebtedness or any trustee or agent on its or their behalf to cause any Material Indebtedness to become due, or to require the prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance thereof, prior to its scheduled maturity; that this clause (g) shall not apply to secured Indebtedness that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the assets securing such Indebtedness;
provided
     (h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, winding-up, administration, reorganization or other relief in respect of the Company or any Subsidiary or its debts, or of a substantial part of
 
its assets, under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, administration, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a liquidator, receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator, administrator, administrative receiver or similar official for the Company or any Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered;
     (i) the Company or any Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, winding-up, administration, reorganization or other relief under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in clause (h) of this Article, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a liquidator, receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator, administrator or similar official for the Company or any Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing;
     (j) the Company or any Subsidiary shall become unable, admit in writing its inability or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due;
     (k) one or more judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $10,000,000 shall be rendered against the Company, any Subsidiary or any combination thereof and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 30 consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed, or any action shall be legally taken by one or more judgment creditors to attach or levy upon any assets of the Company or any Subsidiary to enforce one or more judgments in such aggregate amount;
     (l) an ERISA Event or circumstance in respect of any Foreign Pension Plan shall have occurred that, in the reasonable opinion of the Required Lenders, when taken together with all other ERISA Events and such circumstances that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
     (m) a Change in Control shall occur; or
     (n) except as otherwise provided in Section 6.03(a), the Parent Guaranty, the Subsidiary Guaranty or any provisions thereof shall cease to be in full force or effect as to the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor, or the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or any Person acting for or on behalf of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor shall deny or disaffirm the Company's or such Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations under the Parent Guaranty or the Subsidiary Guaranty, as applicable;
then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to any Credit Party described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event,
 
the Administrative Agent may, and at the request of the Required Lenders shall, by notice to the Company, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate the Commitments, and thereupon the Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be due and payable in whole (or in part, in which case any principal not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter be declared to be due and payable), and thereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrowers accrued hereunder, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrowers; and in case of any event with respect to any Credit Party described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article, the Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrowers accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrowers.
          Each of the Lenders and Issuing Banks hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
          The bank serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with the Company or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder.
          The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise in writing as directed by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02), and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Company or any Subsidiary that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agent by the
 
Company or a Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article IV
          The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for any Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
          The Administrative Agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
          Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders, the Issuing Banks and the Company. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Company, to appoint a successor. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks, appoint a successor Administrative Agent which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by the Company to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Company and such successor. After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 9.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while it was acting as Administrative Agent.
 
          Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
          The Administrative Agent shall be permitted from time to time to designate one of its Affiliates to perform the duties to be performed by the Administrative Agent hereunder with respect to Loans and Borrowings denominated in Foreign Currencies. The provisions of this and the other provisions of this Agreement shall apply to any such Affiliate .
Article VIII
mutatis
mutandis
          No Lender identified in this Agreement as a "Co-Documentation Agent" or a "Co-Syndication Agent" shall have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty under this Agreement other than those applicable to all Lenders as such. Without limiting the foregoing, none of such Lenders shall have or be deemed to have a fiduciary relationship with any Lender. Each Lender hereby makes the same acknowledgments with respect to such Lenders as it makes with respect to the Agent in this .
Article VIII
          Without limiting the foregoing, if all of the Equity Interests held by the Company and its Subsidiaries in any Subsidiary Guarantor are sold or transferred in a transaction permitted hereunder (other than to the Company or to a Subsidiary thereof), such Subsidiary Guarantor and its subsidiaries shall be released from the Subsidiary Guaranty upon the consummation of such transaction and the Administrative Agent is authorized and directed to take any actions deemed appropriate in order to effect the foregoing.
          SECTION 9.01. . (a) Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and subject to paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:
Notices
     (i) if to the Company or any Subsidiary Borrower, to it at Molex Incorporated, 2222 Wellington Court, Lisle, Illinois 60532, Attention of David D. Johnson (Telecopy No. (630) 416-4936);
     (ii) if to the Administrative Agent, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, 10 South Dearborn Street, Floor 7, Chicago, IL 60603, Attention of Nanette Wilson (Telecopy No. (312) 385-7098);
 
     (iii) if to the Administrative Agent for Eurocurrency Loans in Foreign Currencies, to J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, 125 London Wall, London EC1W 2JD, Attention of Ching Loh/The Manager, Telecopy No. +44(0) 207 777 2360);
     (iv) if to JPMorgan in its capacity as Issuing Bank, to it at 10 South Dearborn Street, Floor 7, Chicago, IL 60603, Attention of Nanette Wilson (Telecopy No. (312) 385-7098);
     (v) if to the Swingline Lender, to it at 10 South Dearborn Street, Floor 7, Chicago, IL 60603, Attention of Nanette Wilson (Telecopy No. (312) 385-7098); and
     (vi) if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
          (b) Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent; that the foregoing shall not apply to notices pursuant to unless otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the applicable Lender. The Administrative Agent or the Company may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
provided
Article II
provided
          (c) Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt.
          SECTION 9.02. . (a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure by the Borrowers therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan or issuance of a Letter of Credit shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time.
Waivers; Amendments
          (b) Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Company and the Required Lenders or by the Company and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; that no such agreement shall (i) increase the
provided
 
Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iv) change Section 2.18(b) or (c) in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, (v) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to (A) waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder, (B) make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, (C) approve any Foreign Currency hereunder or (D) approve any Subsidiary Borrower pursuant to Section 2.20(a), without the written consent of each Lender or (vi) except in connection with a transaction permitted by Section 6.03, release any Subsidiary Guarantor (which at the time of such release is a Material Subsidiary) from its obligations under the Subsidiary Guaranty, without the written consent of each Lender; that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, such Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be, and, without limiting the foregoing, Section 2.22 shall not be amended or modified without the consent of each of such parties. Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon the execution and delivery of all documentation required by the Administrative Agent to be delivered pursuant to Section 2.09(d) in connection with an increase in the Commitments, this Agreement shall be deemed amended without further action by any Lender or any Credit Party to reflect, as applicable, the new Lenders and the terms of their new Commitments or Loans.
provided
further
          SECTION 9.03. . (a) The Company shall pay (i) all reasonable and documented out of pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates, including the reasonable and documented fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent, in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation and administration of the Credit Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by any Issuing Bank in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender, including the reasonable and documented fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with this Agreement, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit.
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
          (b) The Company shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Bank and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all
Indemnitee
 
losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by any Issuing Bank to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Company or any Subsidiary, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Company or any Subsidiary, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or any of its Affiliates. This Section 9.03(b) shall not apply with respect to Taxes other than any Taxes that represent losses or damages arising from any non-Tax claim.
provided
          (c) To the extent that the Company fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, such Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent, such Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender in its capacity as such.
provided
          (d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrowers shall not assert, and hereby waive, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the Transactions, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof.
          (e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable promptly after written demand therefor.
          SECTION 9.04. . (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of any Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), except that (i) the Borrowers may not assign or otherwise transfer any of their respective rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by the Borrowers without such consent shall be null and void) and (ii) no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations hereunder
Successors and Assigns
 
except in accordance with this Section. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of any Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), Participants (to the extent provided in paragraph (c) of this Section) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
          (b) (i) Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) below, any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it) with the prior written consent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) of:
          (A) the Company, that no consent of the Company shall be required for an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender, an Approved Fund or, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, any other assignee;
provided
          (B) the Administrative Agent, that no consent of the Administrative Agent shall be required for an assignment of any Commitment to an assignee that is a Lender with a Commitment immediately prior to giving effect to such assignment; and
provided
          (C) each Issuing Bank.
     (ii) Assignments shall be subject to the following additional conditions:
          (A) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment or Loans, the amount of the Commitment or Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Company and the Administrative Agent otherwise consent, that no such consent of the Company shall be required if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing;
provided
          (B) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement;
          (C) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500; and
          (D) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire in which the assignee designates one or more credit contacts to whom all syndicate-level information (which may contain material non-public information about the Company and its affiliates, the other Credit Parties and their related parties or their respective securities) will be made available and
 
who may receive such information in accordance with the assignee's compliance procedures and applicable laws, including Federal and state securities laws.
          For the purposes of this Section 9.04(b), the term "" has the following meaning:
Approved Fund
          "" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
     (iii) Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 9.03). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 9.04 shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section.
     (iv) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers, shall maintain at one of its offices a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of (and interest on) the Loans and LC Disbursements owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by any Borrower, any Issuing Bank and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
     (v) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b)(ii)(C) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b)(i) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information contained therein in the Register; that if either the assigning Lender or the assignee shall have failed to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.05(c), 2.06(d) or (e), 2.07(b), 2.18(d) or 9.03(c), the Administrative Agent
provided
 
shall have no obligation to accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information therein in the Register unless and until such payment shall have been made in full, together with all accrued interest thereon. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
          (c) (i) Any Lender may, without the consent of the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); that (A) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (C) the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 9.02(b) that affects such Participant. The Borrowers agree that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.15, 2.16 and 2.17 (subject to the requirements and limitations therein, including the requirements under Section 2.17(f) (it being understood that the documentation required under Section 2.17(f) shall be delivered to the participating Lender)) to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section; that such Participant (A) agrees to be subject to the provisions of Sections 2.18 and 2.19 as if it were an assignee under paragraph (b) of this Section; and (B) shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Sections 2.15 or 2.17, with respect to any participation, than its participating Lender would have been entitled to receive, except to the extent such entitlement to receive a greater payment results from a Change in Law that occurs after the Participant acquired the applicable participation. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 9.08 as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.18(c) as though it were a Lender.
Participant
provided
provided
provided
     (ii) Each Lender that sells a participation shall, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers, maintain a register on which it enters the name and address of each Participant and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each Participant's interest in the Loans or other obligations under this Agreement (the ""); that no Lender shall have any obligation to disclose all or any portion of the Participant Register to any Person (including the identity of any Participant or any information relating to a Participant's interest in any Commitments, Loans, Letters of Credit or its other obligations under any this Agreement) except to the extent that such disclosure is necessary to establish that such Commitment, Loan, Letter of Credit or other obligation is in registered form under Section 5f.103-1(c) of the United States Treasury Regulations. The entries in the Participant Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and such Lender shall treat each person whose name is recorded in the Participant
Participant Register
provided
 
Register as the owner of such participation for all purposes of this Agreement notwithstanding any notice to the contrary.
          (d) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
          SECTION 9.05. . All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Borrowers herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans and issuance of any Letters of Credit, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid or any Letter of Credit is outstanding and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 9.03 and shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Letters of Credit and the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
Survival
Article VIII
          SECTION 9.06. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy or email (in a .pdf or similar file) shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
          SECTION 9.07. . Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
 
          SECTION 9.08. . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other obligations at any time owing by such Lender or Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of any Borrower against any of and all the obligations of such Person now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have.
Right of Setoff
          SECTION 9.09. . (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of Illinois.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process
          (b) Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the State of Illinois sitting in Cook County and of the United States District Court of the Northern District of Illinois, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such Illinois State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement against the Borrowers or their respective properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
          (c) Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
          (d) Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 9.01. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
          SECTION 9.10. . EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
 
REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
          SECTION 9.11. . Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Headings
          SECTION 9.12. . Each of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority, (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to any Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Company or (h) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (ii) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender on a non-confidential basis from a source other than the Company or any Affiliate thereof. For the purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Company or any Affiliate thereof relating to the Company or its business, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender on a non-confidential basis prior to disclosure by the Company or any Affiliate thereof. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Confidentiality
Information
          
EACH LENDER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT INFORMATION AS DEFINED IN SECTION 9.
12(a)
FURNISHED TO IT PURSUANT TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY INCLUDE MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION CONCERNING THE COMPANY AND ITS RELATED PARTIES OR THEIR RESPECTIVE SECURITIES, AND CONFIRMS THAT IT HAS DEVELOPED COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES REGARDING THE USE OF MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION AND THAT IT WILL HANDLE SUCH MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THOSE PROCEDURES AND APPLICABLE LAW, INCLUDING FEDERAL AND STATE SECURITIES LAWS.
 
          
ALL INFORMATION, INCLUDING REQUESTS FOR WAIVERS AND AMENDMENTS, FURNISHED BY THE COMPANY OR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT PURSUANT TO, OR IN THE COURSE OF ADMINISTERING, THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE SYNDICATE-LEVEL INFORMATION, WHICH MAY CONTAIN MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS AFFILIATES, THE OTHER CREDIT PARTIES AND THEIR RELATED PARTIES OR THEIR RESPECTIVE SECURITIES. ACCORDINGLY, EACH LENDER REPRESENTS TO THE COMPANY AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT THAT IT HAS IDENTIFIED IN ITS ADMINISTRATIVE QUESTIONNAIRE A CREDIT CONTACT WHO MAY RECEIVE INFORMATION THAT MAY CONTAIN MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH ITS COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES AND APPLICABLE LAW.
          SECTION 9.13. . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if at any time the interest rate applicable to any Loan, together with all fees, charges and other amounts which are treated as interest on such Loan under applicable law (collectively the ""), shall exceed the maximum lawful rate (the "") which may be contracted for, charged, taken, received or reserved by the Lender holding such Loan in accordance with applicable law, the rate of interest payable in respect of such Loan hereunder, together with all Charges payable in respect thereof, shall be limited to the Maximum Rate and, to the extent lawful, the interest and Charges that would have been payable in respect of such Loan but were not payable as a result of the operation of this Section shall be cumulated and the interest and Charges payable to such Lender in respect of other Loans or periods shall be increased (but not above the Maximum Rate therefor) until such cumulated amount, together with interest thereon at the Federal Funds Effective Rate to the date of repayment, shall have been received by such Lender.
Interest Rate Limitation
Charges
Maximum Rate
          SECTION 9.14. . Each Lender that is subject to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the "") hereby notifies the Borrowers that pursuant to the requirements of the Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies such Person, which information includes the names and addresses of the Borrowers and other information that will allow such Lender to identify the Borrowers in accordance with the Act.
USA PATRIOT Act
Act
          SECTION 9.15. . (a) If, for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum owing hereunder in one currency into another currency, each party hereto agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction the first currency could be purchased with such other currency on the Business Day immediately preceding the day on which final judgment is given.
Conversion of Currencies
          (b) The obligations of each Borrower in respect of any sum due to any party hereto or any holder of the obligations owing hereunder (the "") shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "") other than the currency in which such sum is stated to be due hereunder (the ""), be discharged only to the extent that, on the Business Day following receipt by the Applicable Creditor of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Applicable Creditor may in accordance
Applicable Creditor
Judgment Currency
Agreement Currency
 
with normal banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency; if the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Applicable Creditor in the Agreement Currency, each Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Applicable Creditor against such loss; and if the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased exceeds the sum originally due to the Applicable Credit in the Agreement Currency, the Applicable Creditor shall return such excess to the Applicable Borrower. The obligations of the Borrowers contained in this Section 9.15 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of all other amounts owing hereunder.
          SECTION 9.16. Each Subsidiary Borrower hereby authorizes and empowers the Company to act as its representative and attorney-in-fact for the purposes of signing documents and giving and receiving notices (including borrowing requests and interest elections hereunder) and other communications in connection with the this Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby and for the purposes of modifying or amending any provision of this Agreement and further agrees that the Administrative Agent and each Lender may conclusively rely on the foregoing authorization.
Appointment.
          SECTION 9.17. . Each Lender with whom the Company (but not any Subsidiary) has an uncommitted bilateral line of credit as of the Effective Date agrees that such line of credit shall be terminated upon the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Termination of Bilateral Lines of Credit
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
Schedule 1.01
     For the purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings, subject to the final paragraph of this Schedule:
     "Financials" means the annual or quarterly financial statements of the Company delivered pursuant to Section 5.01 of this Agreement.
     "Level I Status" exists at any date if, as of the last day of the fiscal quarter of the Company referred to in the most recent Financials, the Leverage Ratio is less than or equal to 1.00 to 1.00.
     "Level II Status" exists at any date if, as of the last day of the fiscal quarter of the Company referred to in the most recent Financials, (i) the Company has not qualified for Level I Status and (ii) the Leverage Ratio is less than or equal to 1.50 to 1.00.
     "Level III Status" exists at any date if, as of the last day of the fiscal quarter of the Company referred to in the most recent Financials, (i) the Company has not qualified for Level I Status or Level II Status and (ii) the Leverage Ratio is less than or equal to 2.00 to 1.00.
     "Level IV Status" exists at any date if the Company has not qualified for Level I Status, Level II Status or Level III Status.
     "Status" means Level I Status, Level II Status, Level III Status or Level IV Status.
     The Applicable Rate shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing table based on the Company's Status as reflected in the then most recent Financials. Adjustments, if any, to the Applicable Rate shall be effective five Business Days after the Administrative Agent has received the applicable Financials. If the Company fails to deliver the Financials to the Administrative Agent at the time required pursuant to the Credit Agreement, then the Applicable Rate shall be the highest Applicable Rate set forth in the foregoing table until five Business Days after such Financials are so delivered. Until adjusted after the Second Amendment Effective Date, Level I Status shall be deemed to exist.


