FILE:MOLX/MOLX-8K-20110824152856.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     On August 18, 2011, Molex Incorporated (the "Company") entered into a note purchase agreement (the "Agreement") with certain institutional investors pursuant to which the Company issued $150,000,000 of senior unsecured notes (the "") comprised of $50,000,000 of 2.91% Series 2011A Senior Notes, Tranche A, due August 18, 2016; $50,000,000 of 3.59% Series 2011A Senior Notes, Tranche B, due August 18, 2018; and $50,000,000 of 4.28% Series 2011A Senior Notes, Tranche C, due August 18, 2021, each dated August 18, 2011. The Notes were issued and sold in a private placement exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Notes
     The Company may prepay at any time all, or from time to time any part of, the Notes, in an amount not less than ten percent of the original principal amount of the Notes being prepaid at one hundred percent of the principal amount so prepaid, together with accrued interest plus the "Make-Whole Amount" as defined in the Agreement. The Make-Whole Amount is equal to the excess, if any, of the discounted value of the remaining scheduled payments with respect to the Notes being prepaid over the amount of such Notes.
     The obligations of the Company under the Agreement are guaranteed by substantially all of the Company's domestic subsidiaries. Proceeds from the sale of the Notes will be used to repay a portion of its indebtedness under the credit agreement dated June 25, 2009 with a group of lenders, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as administrative agent, as amended, and for other corporate purposes.
     The Agreement contains customary covenants, including covenants limiting liens, debt, substantial asset sales, mergers and transactions with affiliates. Most of these restrictions are subject to minimum thresholds and exceptions. The Agreement also contains financial covenants that require the Company to:
     (i) maintain a ratio of (a) EBITDA to (b) total interest expense of not less than 2.00:1.00; and
     (ii) maintain a ratio of total debt to EBITDA of not more than 3.50:1.00.
     In addition, repayment of the Notes may be accelerated by the institutional investors upon the occurrence of customary events of default, including (subject to certain materiality thresholds and grace periods) payment default, failure to comply with covenants, material inaccuracy of representations or warranties, bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings and cross-default to other debt agreements.
     In addition, repayment of the Notes may be accelerated by the institutional investors upon the occurrence of customary events of default, including (subject to certain materiality thresholds and grace periods) payment default, failure to comply with covenants, material inaccuracy of representations or warranties, bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings and cross-default to other debt agreements.
     The foregoing description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Agreement, a copy of which are filed herewith as Exhibit 4.1, and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
A list of exhibits filed herewith is contained on the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 4.1
Execution Copy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated as of August 18, 2011
     
To the Purchasers listed in
the attached Schedule A:
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     , a Delaware corporation (the ), agrees with the Purchasers listed in the attached Schedule A (the ) to this Note Purchase Agreement (this ) as follows:
Molex Incorporated
"Company"
"Purchasers"
"Agreement"
Section 1.
Authorization of Notes.
     . The Company will authorize the issue and sale of the following Senior Notes:
Section 1.1. Description of Notes
 
     The Senior Notes described above together with each Series of Additional Notes that may from time to time be issued pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.2 are collectively referred to as the (such term shall also include any such notes issued in substitution therefor pursuant to Section 13). The Tranche A Notes, the Tranche B Notes, and the Tranche C Notes (collectively, the shall be substantially in the form set out in Exhibit 1.1(a), Exhibit 1.1(b) and Exhibit 1.1(c), respectively, with such changes therefrom, if any, as may be approved by the Purchasers and the Company. Certain capitalized terms used in this Agreement are defined in Schedule B; references to a "Schedule" or an "Exhibit" are, unless otherwise specified, to a Schedule or an Exhibit attached to this Agreement.
"Notes"
"Series 2011A Notes")
     (a) The Series 2011A Notes shall bear interest (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) on the unpaid principal thereof from the date of issuance at their respective stated rate of interest payable semi-annually in arrears on the 18th day of February and August in each year and at maturity commencing on February 18, 2012, until such principal sum shall have become due and payable (whether at maturity, upon notice of prepayment or otherwise) and interest (so computed) on any overdue principal, interest or Make-Whole Amount from the due date thereof (whether by acceleration or otherwise) and, during the continuance of an Event of Default, on the unpaid balance hereof, at the applicable Default Rate until paid.
Section 1.2. Interest Rate.
Section 2.
Sale and Purchase of Series 2011A Notes.
     Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Company will issue and sell to each Purchaser and each Purchaser will purchase from the Company, at the Closing provided for in Section 3, the Series 2011A Notes in the principal amount specified opposite such Purchaser's name in Schedule A at the purchase price of 100% of the principal amount thereof. The obligations of each Purchaser hereunder are several and not joint obligations and each Purchaser shall have no obligation and no liability to any Person for the performance or nonperformance by any other Purchaser hereunder.
Section 2.1. Series 2011A Notes.
     . The Company may, from time to time, in its sole discretion but subject to the terms hereof, issue and sell one or more additional Series of its unsecured promissory notes under the provisions of this Agreement pursuant to a supplement (a ) substantially in the form of Exhibit S, that the aggregate principal amount of Notes of all Series issued pursuant to all Supplements in accordance with the terms of
Section 2.2. Additional Series of Notes
"Supplement"
provided
 
this Section 2.2 shall not exceed $600,000,000. Each additional Series of Notes (the ) issued pursuant to a Supplement shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
"Additional Notes"
     (i) each Series of Additional Notes, when so issued, shall be differentiated from all previous Series by sequential alphabetical designation inscribed thereon;
     (ii) Additional Notes of the same Series may consist of more than one different and separate tranches and may differ with respect to outstanding principal amounts, maturity dates, interest rates and premiums, if any, and price and terms of redemption or payment prior to maturity, but all such different and separate tranches of the same Series shall vote as a single class and constitute one Series;
     (iii) each Series of Additional Notes shall be dated the date of issue, bear interest at such rate or rates, mature on such date or dates, be subject to such mandatory and optional prepayment on the dates and at the premiums, if any, have such additional or different conditions precedent to closing, such representations and warranties and such additional covenants as shall be specified in the Supplement under which such Additional Notes are issued and upon execution of any such Supplement, this Agreement shall be amended (a) to reflect such additional covenants without further action on the part of the holders of the Notes outstanding under this Agreement, , that any such additional covenants shall inure to the benefit of all holders of Notes so long as any Additional Notes issued pursuant to such Supplement remain outstanding, and (b) to reflect such representations and warranties as are contained in such Supplement for the benefit of the holders of such Additional Notes in accordance with the provisions of Section 16;
provided
     (iv) each Series of Additional Notes issued under this Agreement shall be in substantially the form of Exhibit 1 to Exhibit S hereto with such variations, omissions and insertions as are necessary or permitted hereunder;
     (v) the minimum principal amount of any Note issued under a Supplement shall be $100,000, except as may be necessary to evidence the outstanding amount of any Note originally issued in a denomination of $100,000 or more;
     (vi) all Additional Notes shall constitute Senior Indebtedness of the Company and shall rank with all other outstanding Notes; and
pari passu
     (vii) no Additional Notes shall be issued hereunder if at the time of issuance thereof and after giving effect to the application of the proceeds thereof, any Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
     The obligations of the Additional Purchasers to purchase any Additional Notes shall be subject to the following conditions precedent, in addition to the conditions specified in the Supplement pursuant to which such Additional Notes may be issued:
 
     (a) . A duly authorized Senior Financial Officer shall execute and deliver to each Additional Purchaser and each holder of Notes an Officer's Certificate dated the date of issue of such Series of Additional Notes stating that such officer has reviewed the provisions of this Agreement (including any Supplements hereto) and setting forth the information and computations (in sufficient detail) required in order to establish whether after giving effect to the issuance of the Additional Notes and after giving effect to the application of the proceeds thereof, the Company is in compliance with the requirements of Sections 10.1 and 10.2 on such date (based upon the financial statements for the most recent fiscal quarter ended prior to the date of such certificate).
Compliance Certificate
     (b) The Company and each such Additional Purchaser shall execute and deliver a Supplement substantially in the form of Exhibit S hereto.
Execution and Delivery of Supplement.
     (c) . Each Additional Purchaser shall have confirmed in the Supplement that the representations set forth in Section 6 are true with respect to such Additional Purchaser on and as of the date of issue of the Additional Notes.
Representations of Additional Purchasers
     (d) Provided a Collateral Release shall not have occurred, each Subsidiary Guarantor shall execute and deliver a Guaranty Ratification in the form attached to the Subsidiary Guaranty.
Execution and Delivery of Guaranty Ratification.
     (a) The payment by the Company of all amounts due with respect to the Notes and the performance by the Company of its obligations under this Agreement will be absolutely and unconditionally guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors pursuant to the Subsidiary Guaranty Agreement dated as of even date herewith, which shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit 2.3 attached hereto, and otherwise in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.6 hereof (the ).
Section 2.3. Subsidiary Guaranty.
"Subsidiary Guaranty"
     (b) The holders of the Notes agree to discharge and release any Subsidiary Guarantor from the Subsidiary Guaranty upon the written request of the Company, that (i) such Subsidiary Guarantor has been released and discharged (or will be released and discharged concurrently with the release of such Subsidiary Guarantor under the Subsidiary Guaranty) as an obligor and guarantor under and in respect of the Bank Credit Agreement and the Company so certifies to the holders of the Notes in a certificate of a Responsible Officer, (ii) at the time of such release and discharge, the Company shall deliver a certificate of a Responsible Officer to the holders of the Notes stating that no Default or Event of Default exists, and (iii) if any fee or other form of consideration is given to any holder of Indebtedness of the Company for the purpose of such release, holders of the Notes shall receive equivalent consideration (a ).
provided
"Collateral Release"
 
Section 3.
Closing.
     The sale and purchase of the Series 2011A Notes to be purchased by each Purchaser shall occur at the offices of Chapman and Cutler LLP, 111 West Monroe Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603 at 10:00 a.m. Central time, at a closing (the "") on August 18, 2011 or on such other Business Day thereafter on or prior to September 16, 2011 as may be agreed upon by the Company and the Purchasers. On the Closing Date, the Company will deliver to each Purchaser the Series 2011A Notes to be purchased by such Purchaser in the form of a single Series 2011A Note (or such greater number of Series 2011A Notes in denominations of at least $100,000 as such Purchaser may request) dated the date of the Closing Date and registered in such Purchaser's name (or in the name of such Purchaser's nominee), against delivery by such Purchaser to the Company or its order of immediately available funds in the amount of the purchase price therefor by wire transfer of immediately available funds for the account of the Company to Account Number 89222, at Northern Trust Bank, Chicago, Illinois 60657, ABA Number 071000152, in the Account Name of "Molex Incorporated." If, on the Closing Date, the Company shall fail to tender such Series 2011A Notes to any Purchaser as provided above in this Section 3, or any of the conditions specified in Section 4 shall not have been fulfilled to any Purchaser's satisfaction, such Purchaser shall, at such Purchaser's election, be relieved of all further obligations under this Agreement, without thereby waiving any rights such Purchaser may have by reason of such failure or such nonfulfillment.
Closing
Section 4.
Conditions to Closing.
     Each Purchaser's obligation to purchase and pay for the Series 2011A Notes to be sold to such Purchaser at the Closing is subject to the fulfillment to such Purchaser's satisfaction, prior to or at the Closing, of the following conditions applicable to the Closing Date:
     .
Section 4.1. Representations and Warranties
     (a) The representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement shall be correct when made and at the time of the Closing.
Representations and Warranties of the Company.
     (b) The representations and warranties of the Subsidiary Guarantors in the Subsidiary Guaranty shall be correct when made and at the time of the Closing.
Representations and Warranties of the Subsidiary Guarantors.
     . The Company and each Subsidiary Guarantor shall have performed and complied with all agreements and conditions contained in this Agreement and the Subsidiary Guaranty required to be performed or complied with by the Company and each such Subsidiary Guarantor prior to or at the Closing, and after giving effect to the issue and sale of the Series 2011A Notes (and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated by Section 5.14), no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Section 4.2. Performance; No Default
 
     .
Section 4.3. Compliance Certificates
     (a) The Company shall have delivered to such Purchaser an Officer's Certificate, dated the Closing Date, certifying that the conditions specified in Sections 4.1, 4.2 and 4.9 have been fulfilled.
Officer's Certificate of the Company.
     (b) The Company shall have delivered to such Purchaser a certificate, dated the Closing Date, certifying as to the resolutions attached thereto and other corporate proceedings relating to the authorization, execution and delivery of the Series 2011A Notes and this Agreement.
Secretary's Certificate of the Company.
     (c) Each Subsidiary Guarantor shall have delivered to such Purchaser an Officer's Certificate, dated the Closing Date, certifying that the conditions specified in Sections 4.1(b), 4.2 and 4.9 have been fulfilled.
Officer's Certificate of the Subsidiary Guarantors.
     (d) Each Subsidiary Guarantor shall have delivered to such Purchaser a certificate, dated the Closing Date, certifying as to the resolutions attached thereto and other corporate proceedings relating to the authorization, execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Guaranty.
Secretary's Certificate of the Subsidiary Guarantors.
     .Such Purchaser shall have received opinions in form and substance satisfactory to such Purchaser, dated the Closing Date (a) from Mark R. Pacioni, Esq., Corporate Secretary of the Company, covering the matters set forth in Exhibit 4.4(a) and covering such other matters incident to the transactions contemplated hereby as such Purchaser or its counsel may reasonably request (and the Company hereby instructs its counsel to deliver such opinion to the Purchasers), (b) from Mayer Brown, LLP, special counsel for the Company, covering the matters set forth in Exhibit 4.4(b) and covering such other matters incident to the transactions contemplated hereby as such Purchaser or its counsel may reasonably request (and the Company hereby instructs its counsel to deliver such opinion to the Purchasers), and (c) from Chapman and Cutler LLP, the Purchasers' special counsel in connection with such transactions, substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit 4.4(c) and covering such other matters incident to such transactions as such Purchaser may reasonably request.
Section 4.4. Opinions of Counsel
     .On the date of the Closing such Purchaser's purchase of Series 2011A Notes shall (a) be permitted by the laws and regulations of each jurisdiction to which such Purchaser is subject, without recourse to provisions (such as section 1405(a)(8) of the New York Insurance Law) permitting limited investments by insurance companies without restriction as to the character of the particular investment, (b) not violate any applicable law or regulation (including, without limitation, Regulation T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) and (c) not subject such Purchaser to any tax, penalty or liability under or pursuant to any applicable law or regulation, which law or regulation was not in effect on the date hereof. If requested by such Purchaser, such Purchaser shall have received an Officer's Certificate certifying as to such matters of fact as such Purchaser may reasonably specify to enable such Purchaser to determine whether such purchase is so permitted.
Section 4.5. Purchase Permitted By Applicable Law, Etc
 
     . Contemporaneously with the Closing the Company shall sell to each other Purchaser and each other Purchaser shall purchase the Series 2011A Notes to be purchased by it at the Closing as specified in Schedule A.
Section 4.6. Sale of Other Notes
     . Without limiting the provisions of Section 15.1, the Company shall have paid on or before the Closing Date, the reasonable fees, reasonable charges and reasonable disbursements of the Purchasers' special counsel referred to in Section 4.4 to the extent reflected in a statement of such counsel rendered to the Company at least one Business Day prior to the Closing Date.
Section 4.7. Payment of Special Counsel Fees
     .A Private Placement Number issued by Standard & Poor's CUSIP Service Bureau (in cooperation with the Securities Valuation Office of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners) shall have been obtained for each Series the Notes.
Section 4.8. Private Placement Number
     . Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary Guarantor shall have changed its jurisdiction of organization or, except as reflected in Schedule 4.9, been a party to any merger or consolidation, or shall have succeeded to all or any substantial part of the liabilities of any other entity, at any time following the date of the most recent financial statements referred to in Schedule 5.5.
Section 4.9. Changes in Corporate Structure
     The Subsidiary Guaranty shall have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by each Subsidiary Guarantor, shall constitute the legal, valid and binding contract and agreement of each Subsidiary Guarantor and such Purchaser shall have received a true, correct and complete copy thereof.
Section 4.10. Subsidiary Guaranty.
     .At least three Business Days prior to the date of the Closing, each Purchaser shall have received written instructions signed by a Responsible Officer on letterhead of the Company confirming the information specified in Section 3 including (i) the name and address of the transferee bank, (ii) such transferee bank's ABA number and (iii) the account name and number into which the purchase price for the Series 2011A Notes is to be deposited.
Section 4.11. Funding Instructions
     .All corporate and other organizational proceedings in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and all documents and instruments incident to such transactions shall be reasonably satisfactory to such Purchaser and its special counsel, and such Purchaser and its special counsel shall have received all such counterpart originals or certified or other copies of such documents as such Purchaser or such special counsel may reasonably request.
Section 4.12. Proceedings and Documents
Section 5.
Representations and Warranties of the Company.
     The Company represents and warrants to each Purchaser that:
     . The Company is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of
Section 5.1. Organization; Power and Authority
 
incorporation, and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required by law, other than those jurisdictions as to which the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The Company has the corporate power and authority to own or hold under lease the properties it purports to own or hold under lease, to transact the business it transacts and proposes to transact, to execute and deliver this Agreement and the Notes and to perform the provisions hereof and thereof.
     . This Agreement and the Notes have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company, and this Agreement constitutes, and upon execution and delivery thereof each Note will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Section 5.2. Authorization, Etc
     . The Company, through its agent, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, has delivered to each Purchaser a copy of a Private Placement Memorandum, dated May, 2011 (the ), relating to the transactions contemplated hereby. This Agreement, the Memorandum and the documents, certificates or other writings delivered to the Purchasers by or on behalf of the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and identified in Schedule 5.3, and the financial statements listed in Schedule 5.5 (this Agreement, the Memorandum and such documents, certificates or other writings and such financial statements delivered to each Purchaser prior to June 2, 2011 being referred to, collectively, as the ), taken as a whole, do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in light of the circumstances under which they were made. Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Documents, since June 30, 2011, there has been no change in the financial condition, operations, business or properties of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries except changes that individually or in the aggregate would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 5.3. Disclosure
"Memorandum"
"Disclosure Documents"
     . (a) Schedule 5.4 is (except as noted therein) a complete and correct list of the Company's Restricted and Unrestricted Subsidiaries, showing, as to each Subsidiary, the correct name thereof and the jurisdiction of its organization.
Section 5.4. Organization and Ownership of Subsidiaries
     (b) Each Subsidiary identified in Schedule 5.4 is a corporation or other legal entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation or other legal entity and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required by law, other than those jurisdictions as to which the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Each such Subsidiary has the corporate or other power and authority to own or hold under lease the
 
properties it purports to own or hold under lease and to transact the business it transacts and proposes to transact.
     . The Company has delivered to each Purchaser copies of the financial statements of the Company and its Subsidiaries listed on Schedule 5.5. All of said financial statements (including in each case the related schedules and notes) fairly present in all material respects the consolidated financial position of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the respective dates specified in such Schedule and the consolidated results of their operations and cash flows for the respective periods so specified and have been prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the periods involved except as set forth in the notes thereto (subject, in the case of any interim financial statements, to normal year-end adjustments). The Company and its Subsidiaries do not have any Material liabilities that are not disclosed on such financial statements or otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Documents.
Section 5.5. Financial Statements; Material Liabilities
     . The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of this Agreement and the Notes will not (i) contravene, result in any breach of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation of any Lien in respect of any property of the Company or any Subsidiary under, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan, purchase or credit agreement, lease, corporate charter or by-laws, or any other Material agreement or instrument to which the Company or any Subsidiary is bound or by which the Company or any Subsidiary or any of their respective properties may be bound or affected, (ii) conflict with or result in a breach of any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any order, judgment, decree, or ruling of any court, arbitrator or Governmental Authority applicable to the Company or any Subsidiary or (iii) violate any provision of any statute or other rule or regulation of any Governmental Authority applicable to the Company or any Subsidiary.
Section 5.6. Compliance with Laws, Other Instruments, Etc
     . No consent, approval or authorization of, or registration, filing or declaration with, any Governmental Authority is required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by the Company of this Agreement or the Notes.
Section 5.7. Governmental Authorizations, Etc
     . (a) There are no actions, suits, investigations or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against or affecting the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or any property of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary in any court or before any arbitrator of any kind or before or by any Governmental Authority that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 5.8. Litigation; Observance of Statutes and Orders
     (b) Neither the Company nor any Restricted Subsidiary is in default under any order, judgment, decree or ruling of any court, arbitrator or Governmental Authority or is in violation of any applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation (including without limitation Environmental Laws or the USA Patriot Act or any of the other laws and regulations referred to in Section 5.16) of any Governmental Authority, which default or violation, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
     . The Company and its Subsidiaries have filed all income tax returns that are required to have been filed in any jurisdiction, and have paid all taxes shown to be due and payable on such returns and all other taxes and assessments payable by them, to the extent such taxes and assessments have become due and payable and before they have become delinquent, except for any taxes and assessments (i) the amount of which is not individually or in the aggregate Material or (ii) the amount, applicability or validity of which is currently being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and with respect to which the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, has established adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP. The U.S. Federal income tax liabilities of the Company and its Subsidiaries have been finally determined (whether by reason of completed audits or the statute of limitations having run) for all fiscal years up to and including the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006.
Section 5.9. Taxes
     . The Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries have good and sufficient title to their respective Material properties, including all such properties reflected in the most recent audited balance sheet referred to in Section 5.5 or purported to have been acquired by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary after said date (except as sold or otherwise disposed of in the ordinary course of business), in each case free and clear of Liens prohibited by this Agreement, except for those defects in title and Liens that, individually or in the aggregate, would not have a Material Adverse Effect. All Material leases are valid and subsisting and are in full force and effect in all material respects.
Section 5.10. Title to Property; Leases
     . The Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries own or possess all licenses, permits, franchises, authorizations, patents, copyrights, proprietary software, service marks, trademarks and trade names, or rights thereto, that are Material, without known conflict with the rights of others, except for those conflicts that, individually or in the aggregate, would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 5.11. Licenses, Permits, Etc
     . (a) The Company and each ERISA Affiliate have operated and administered each Plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) in compliance with all applicable laws except for such instances of noncompliance as have not resulted in and would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred any liability pursuant to Title I or IV of ERISA or the penalty or excise tax provisions of the Code relating to employee benefit plans (as defined in section 3 of ERISA), and no event, transaction or condition has occurred or exists that would reasonably be expected to result in the incurrence of any such liability by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate, or in the imposition of any Lien on any of the rights, properties or assets of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate, in either case pursuant to Title I or IV of ERISA or to such penalty or excise tax provisions or pursuant to section 401(a)(29) or 412 of the Code or section 4068 of ERISA, other than such liabilities or Liens as would not be individually or in the aggregate Material.
Section 5.12. Compliance with ERISA
     (b) The present value of the aggregate benefit liabilities under each of the Plans (other than Multiemployer Plans), determined as of the end of such Plan's most recently ended plan year on the basis of the actuarial assumptions specified for funding purposes in such Plan's most recent actuarial valuation report, did not exceed the aggregate current value of the assets of such Plan allocable to such benefit liabilities. The term has the meaning specified
"benefit liabilities"
 
in section 4001 of ERISA and the terms and have the meaning specified in section 3 of ERISA.
"current value"
"present value"
     (c) The Company and its ERISA Affiliates have not incurred withdrawal liabilities (and are not subject to contingent withdrawal liabilities) under section 4201 or 4204 of ERISA in respect of Multiemployer Plans that individually or in the aggregate are Material.
     (d) The expected postretirement benefit obligation of the Company and its Subsidiaries, determined in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 106 (without regard to liabilities attributable to continuation coverage mandated by section 4980B of the Code), was, as of the last day of the Company's most recently ended fiscal year, equal to $45,300,000.
     (e) The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the issuance and sale of the Series 2011A Notes hereunder will not constitute a non-exempt prohibited transaction within the meaning of section 406 of ERISA or section 4975 of the Code. The representation by the Company to each Purchaser in the first sentence of this Section 5.12(e) is made in reliance upon and subject to the accuracy of such Purchaser's representation in Section 6.3 as to the sources of the funds used to pay the purchase price of the Notes to be purchased by such Purchaser.
     . Neither the Company nor anyone acting on its behalf has offered the Notes or any similar securities for sale to, or solicited any offer to buy any of the same from, or otherwise approached or negotiated in respect thereof with, any person other than the Purchasers and not more than 25 other Institutional Investors, each of which has been offered the Notes at a private sale for investment. Neither the Company nor anyone acting on its behalf has taken, or will take, any action that would subject the issuance or sale of the Notes to the registration requirements of Section 5 of the Securities Act or to the registration requirements of any securities or blue sky laws of any applicable jurisdiction.
Section 5.13. Private Offering by the Company
     . (a) The Company will apply the proceeds of the sale of the Notes to repay existing indebtedness and for other corporate purposes. No part of the proceeds of the sale of the Series 2011A Notes shall be used directly or indirectly to (i) finance or refinance dealings or transactions with any Person described or designated in the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Person List (the ) of the Office of Foreign Asset Control or in Section 1 of the Anti-Terrorism Order or (ii) for any purpose that is otherwise in violation of any applicable Anti-Money Laundering Laws or applicable Anti-Corruption Laws.
Section 5.14. Use of Proceeds; Margin Regulations
"SDN List"
     (b) No part of the proceeds from the sale of the Notes hereunder will be used, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of buying or carrying any margin stock within the meaning of Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 221), or for the purpose of buying or carrying or trading in any securities under such circumstances as to involve the Company in a violation of Regulation X of said Board (12 CFR 224) or to involve any broker or dealer in a violation of Regulation T of said Board (12 CFR 220). Margin stock does not constitute more than 10% of the value of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries and the Company does not have any present intention that margin stock will
 
constitute more than 10% of the value of such assets. As used in this Section, the terms and shall have the meanings assigned to them in said Regulation U.
"margin stock"
"purpose of buying or carrying"
     . Except as described therein, Schedule 5.15 sets forth a complete and correct list of all outstanding Indebtedness of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries as of July 29, 2011 (including a description of the obligors and obligees, principal amount outstanding and collateral therefor, if any, and Guarantee thereof, if any), since which date there has been no Material change in the amounts, interest rates, sinking funds, installment payments or maturities of the Indebtedness of the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries. Neither the Company nor any Restricted Subsidiary is in default and no waiver of default is currently in effect, in the payment of any principal or interest on any Indebtedness of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary and no event or condition exists with respect to any Indebtedness of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary the outstanding principal amount of which exceeds $25,000,000 that would permit (or that with notice or the lapse of time, or both, would permit) one or more Persons to cause such Indebtedness to become due and payable before its stated maturity or before its regularly scheduled dates of payment.
Section 5.15. Existing Indebtedness
     (b) Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is a party to, or otherwise subject to any provision contained in, any instrument evidencing Indebtedness of the Company or such Subsidiary, any agreement relating thereto or any other agreement (including, but not limited to, its charter or other organizational document) which limits the amount of, or otherwise imposes restrictions on the incurring of, Indebtedness of the Company, except as specifically indicated in Schedule 5.15.
     . (a) Neither the sale of the Notes by the Company hereunder nor its use of the proceeds thereof will violate the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended (the ), or any of the foreign assets control regulations of the United States Treasury Department (31 CFR, Subtitle B, Chapter V, as amended) or any enabling legislation (including, but not limited to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act) or executive order relating thereto (collectively, ).
Section 5.16. Foreign Assets Control Regulations
"Trading with the Enemy Act"
"OFAC Sanctions Laws"
     (b) Neither the Company nor any Controlled Entity (i) is a Person described or designated in the SDN List of the Office of Foreign Assets Control or in section 1 of the Anti-Terrorism Order or is otherwise officially sanctioned pursuant to the OFAC Sanctions Laws, (ii) engages in any dealings or transactions with any such Person where such dealings or transactions would result in any holder of a Note being in violation in any material respect of the Foreign Activities Laws or (iii) engages in any dealings or transactions with any Person where such dealings or transactions would result in any Purchaser being in violation of any applicable Anti-Money Laundering Laws or Applicable Anti-Corruption Laws. To the extent applicable thereto, the Company and its Controlled Entities are in compliance, in all material respects, with the Foreign Activities Laws, the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the ), the anti-money laundering laws in the jurisdictions where they are located and/or conducting business (the ) and the anti-corruption
"FCPA"
"Anti-Money Laundering Laws"
 
laws in the jurisdictions where they are located and/or conducting business (collectively, the ).
"Anti-Corruption Laws"
     (c) No part of the proceeds from the sale of the Notes hereunder will be used, directly or indirectly, for any payments to any governmental official or employee, political party, official of a political party, candidate for political office, or anyone else acting in an official capacity, in order to obtain, retain or direct business or obtain any improper advantage, in violation of the FCPA, assuming in all cases that such Act applies to the Company. The Company has taken reasonable measures appropriate to the circumstances (in any event as required by applicable law), to ensure that the Company and each Controlled Entity is and will continue to be in compliance with all applicable current and future Anti-Corruption Laws.
     . Neither the Company nor any Restricted Subsidiary is subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, as amended, the ICC Termination Act of 1995, as amended, or the Federal Power Act, as amended.
Section 5.17. Status under Certain Statutes
     The obligations of the Company under this Agreement and the Notes rank in right of payment with all other senior unsecured Indebtedness (actual or contingent) of the Company, including, without limitation, all senior unsecured Indebtedness of the Company described in Schedule 5.15 hereto.
Section 5.18. Notes Rank Pari Passu.
pari passu
Section 6.
Representations of the Purchaser.
     .Each Purchaser severally represents that it is purchasing the Series 2011A Notes for its own account or for one or more separate accounts maintained by it or for the account of one or more pension or trust funds and not with a view to the distribution thereof (other than any Notes purchased by Banc of America Securities LLC on the Closing Date which are intended to be resold to a "qualified institutional buyer" pursuant to Rule 144A of the Securities Act), that the disposition of such Purchaser's or such pension or trust funds' property shall at all times be within such Purchaser's or such pension or trust funds' control. Each Purchaser understands that the Series 2011A Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and may be resold only if registered pursuant to the provisions of the Securities Act or if an exemption from registration is available, except under circumstances where neither such registration nor such an exemption is required by law, and that the Company is not required to register the Series 2011A Notes.
Section 6.1. Purchase for Investment
provided
     . Each Purchaser represents that it is an "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act acting for its own account (and not for the account of others) or as a fiduciary or agent for others (which others are also "accredited investors"). Each Purchaser further represents that such Purchaser has had the opportunity to ask questions of the Company and received answers concerning the terms and conditions of the sale of the Series 2011A Notes.
Section 6.2. Accredited Investor
     . Each Purchaser severally represents that at least one of the following statements is an accurate representation as to each source of funds (a ) to
Section 6.3. Source of Funds
"Source"
 
be used by such Purchaser to pay the purchase price of the Series 2011A Notes to be purchased by such Purchaser hereunder:
     (a) the Source is an "insurance company general account" (as the term is defined in the United States Department of Labor's Prohibited Transaction Exemption () 95-60) in respect of which the reserves and liabilities (as defined by the annual statement for life insurance companies approved by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (the )) for the general account contract(s) held by or on behalf of any employee benefit plan together with the amount of the reserves and liabilities for the general account contract(s) held by or on behalf of any other employee benefit plans maintained by the same employer (or affiliate thereof as defined in PTE 95-60) or by the same employee organization in the general account do not exceed 10% of the total reserves and liabilities of the general account (exclusive of separate account liabilities) plus surplus as set forth in the NAIC Annual Statement filed with such Purchaser's state of domicile; or
"PTE"
"NAIC Annual Statement"
     (b) the Source is a separate account that is maintained solely in connection with such Purchaser's fixed contractual obligations under which the amounts payable, or credited, to any employee benefit plan (or its related trust) that has any interest in such separate account (or to any participant or beneficiary of such plan (including any annuitant)) are not affected in any manner by the investment performance of the separate account; or
     (c) the Source is either (i) an insurance company pooled separate account, within the meaning of PTE 90-1 or (ii) a bank collective investment fund, within the meaning of the PTE 91-38 and, except as disclosed by such Purchaser at least three Business Days prior to such Purchaser's purchase of the Series 2011A Notes to the Company in writing pursuant to this clause (c), no employee benefit plan or group of plans maintained by the same employer or employee organization beneficially owns more than 10% of all assets allocated to such pooled separate account or collective investment fund; or
     (d) the Source constitutes assets of an "investment fund" (within the meaning of Part VI of PTE 84-14 (the "QPAM Exemption")) managed by a "qualified professional asset manager" or "QPAM" (within the meaning of Part VI of the QPAM Exemption), no employee benefit plan's assets that are included in such investment fund, when combined with the assets of all other employee benefit plans established or maintained by the same employer or by an affiliate (within the meaning of Section VI(c)(1) of the QPAM Exemption) of such employer or by the same employee organization and managed by such QPAM, exceed 20% of the total client assets managed by such QPAM, the conditions of Part I(c) and (g) of the QPAM Exemption are satisfied, as of the last day of its most recent calendar quarter, the QPAM does not own a 10% or more interest in the Company and no person controlling or controlled by the QPAM (applying the definition of "control" in Section VI(e) of the QPAM Exemption) owns a 20% or more interest in the Company (or less than 20% but greater than 10%, if such person exercises control over the management or policies of the Company by reason of
 
its ownership interest) and (i) the identity of such QPAM and (ii) except where the Source satisfies the exemption set forth in the last paragraph of Part I(a) of the QPAM Exemption, the names of all employee benefit plans whose assets are included in such investment fund have been disclosed to the Company in writing pursuant to this clause (d) by the Purchaser at least three Business Days prior to such Purchaser's purchase of the Series 2011A Notes; or
     (e) the Source constitutes assets of a "plan(s)" (within the meaning of Section IV of PTE 96-23 (the )) managed by an "in-house asset manager" or "INHAM" (within the meaning of Part IV of the INHAM exemption), the conditions of Part I(a), (g) and (h) of the INHAM Exemption are satisfied, neither the INHAM nor a person controlling or controlled by the INHAM (applying the definition of "control" in Section IV(d) of the INHAM Exemption) owns a 5% or more interest in the Company and (i) the identity of such INHAM and (ii) the name(s) of the employee benefit plan(s) whose assets constitute the Source have been disclosed to the Company in writing pursuant to this clause (e) by the Purchaser at least three Business Days prior to such Purchaser's purchase of the Series 2011A Notes; or
"INHAM Exemption"
     (f) the Source is a governmental plan; or
     (g) the Source is one or more employee benefit plans, or a separate account or trust fund comprised of one or more employee benefit plans, each of which has been identified to the Company by the Purchaser at least three Business Days prior to such Purchaser's purchase of the Series 2011A Notes in writing pursuant to this clause (g); or
     (h) the Source does not include assets of any employee benefit plan, other than a plan exempt from the coverage of ERISA or section 4975 of the Code.
As used in this Section 6.3, the terms and shall have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in section 3 of ERISA. The three-day notice requirement set forth in clauses (c), (d), (e) and (g) above shall not apply to a transferee under Section 13.2.
"employee benefit plan," "governmental plan,"
"separate account"
Section 7.
Information as to Company.
     . The Company shall deliver to each holder of Notes that is an Institutional Investor:
Section 7.1. Financial and Business Information
     (a)  within 60 days (or such shorter period as is 15 days greater than the period applicable to the filing of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (the ) with the SEC regardless of whether the Company is subject to the filing requirements thereof) after the end of each quarterly fiscal period in each fiscal year of the Company (other than the last quarterly fiscal period of each such fiscal year), duplicate copies of,
Quarterly Statements
"Form 10-Q"
 
     (i) a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such quarter, and
     (ii) consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries, for such quarter and (in the case of the second and third quarters) for the portion of the fiscal year ending with such quarter,
setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding periods in the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, prepared in accordance with GAAP applicable to quarterly financial statements generally, and certified by a Senior Financial Officer as fairly presenting, in all material respects, the financial position of the companies being reported on and their results of operations and cash flows, subject to changes resulting from year-end adjustments, that delivery within the time period specified above of copies of the Company's Form 10-Q prepared in compliance with the requirements therefor and filed with the SEC shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this Section 7.1(a), and that the Company shall be deemed to have made such delivery of such Form 10-Q if it shall have timely made such Form 10-Q available on "EDGAR" and on its home page on the worldwide web (at the date of this Agreement located at: http//www.molex.com) and shall have given such holder prior notice of such availability on EDGAR and on its home page in connection with each delivery (such availability and notice thereof being referred to as );
provided
provided, further,
"Electronic Delivery"
     (b)  within 105 days (or such shorter period as is 15 days greater than the period applicable to the filing of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K (the ) with the SEC regardless of whether the Company is subject to the filing requirements thereof) after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, duplicate copies of,
Annual Statements
"Form 10-K"
     (i) a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries, as at the end of such year, and
     (ii) consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries, for such year,
setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, prepared in accordance with GAAP, and accompanied by an opinion thereon of independent public accountants of recognized national standing, which opinion shall state that such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the companies being reported upon and their results of operations and cash flows and have been prepared in conformity with GAAP, and that the examination of such accountants in connection with such financial statements has been made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and that such audit provides a reasonable basis for such opinion in the circumstances, that the delivery within the time period specified above of the Company's Annual Report on
provided
 
Form 10-K for such fiscal year (together with the Company's annual report to shareholders, if any, prepared pursuant to Rule 14a-3 under the Exchange Act) prepared in accordance with the requirements therefor and filed with the SEC shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this Section 7.1(b), and that the Company shall be deemed to have made such delivery of such Form 10-K if it shall have timely made Electronic Delivery thereof;
provided, further,
     (c)  promptly upon their becoming available, one copy of (i) each financial statement, report, notice or proxy statement sent by the Company or any Subsidiary to its principal lending banks as a whole (excluding information sent to such banks in the ordinary course of administration of a bank facility, such as information relating to pricing and borrowing availability) or to its public securities holders generally, and (ii) each regular or periodic report, each registration statement that shall have become effective (without exhibits except as expressly requested by such holder), and each final prospectus and all amendments thereto filed by the Company or any Subsidiary with the SEC;
SEC and Other Reports
     (d)  promptly, and in any event within five Business Days after a Responsible Officer becoming aware of the existence of any Default or Event of Default, a written notice specifying the nature and period of existence thereof and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto;
Notice of Default or Event of Default
     (e)  promptly, and in any event within five Business Days after a Responsible Officer becoming aware of any of the following, a written notice setting forth the nature thereof and the action, if any, that the Company or an ERISA Affiliate proposes to take with respect thereto:
ERISA Matters
     (i) with respect to any Plan, any reportable event, as defined in section 4043(c) of ERISA and the regulations thereunder, for which notice thereof has not been waived pursuant to such regulations as in effect on the date hereof; or
     (ii) the taking by the PBGC of steps to institute, or the threatening by the PBGC of the institution of, proceedings under section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Plan, or the receipt by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate of a notice from a Multiemployer Plan that such action has been taken by the PBGC with respect to such Multiemployer Plan; or
     (iii) any event, transaction or condition that could reasonably be expected to result in the incurrence of any liability by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate pursuant to Title I or IV of ERISA or the penalty or excise tax provisions of the Code relating to employee benefit plans, or in the imposition of any Lien on any of the rights, properties or assets of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate pursuant to Title I or IV of ERISA or such penalty or excise tax provisions, if
 
such liability or Lien, taken together with any other such liabilities or Liens then existing, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
     (f)  promptly and in any event within 10 Business Days after the execution and delivery of any Supplement, a copy thereof;
Supplements
     (g)  with reasonable promptness, such other data and information relating to the business, operations, affairs, financial condition, assets or properties of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (including, but without limitation, actual copies of the Company's Form 10-Q and Form 10-K) or relating to the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under this Agreement and under the Notes as from time to time may be reasonably requested by such holder of Notes; and
Requested Information
     (h)  In the event that as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of the Company one or more Unrestricted Subsidiaries shall either (i) own more than 10% of the total consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, or (ii) earned more than 10% of the consolidated gross revenues of the Company and its Subsidiaries during the most recent period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, determined in each case in accordance with GAAP, then, within the respective periods provided in Section 7.1(a) and (b) above, the Company shall deliver to each holder of Notes that is an Institutional Investor, unaudited financial statements of the character and for the dates and periods as in said Section 7.1(a) and (b) covering such group of Unrestricted Subsidiaries (on a consolidated basis), together with a consolidating statement reflecting eliminations or adjustments required to reconcile the financial statements of such group of Unrestricted Subsidiaries to the financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 7.1(a) and (b).
Unrestricted Subsidiaries
     . Each set of financial statements delivered to a holder of Notes pursuant to Section 7.1(a) or Section 7.1(b) shall be accompanied by a certificate of a Senior Financial Officer setting forth (which, in the case of Electronic Delivery of any such financial statements, shall be by separate concurrent delivery of such certificate to each holder of Notes):
Section 7.2. Officer's Certificate
     (a)  the information (including detailed calculations) required in order to establish whether the Company was in compliance with the requirements of Section 10.1 through Section 10.6, inclusive, during the quarterly or annual period covered by the statements then being furnished (including with respect to each such Section, where applicable, the calculations of the maximum or minimum amount, ratio or percentage, as the case may be, permissible under the terms of such Sections, and the calculation of the amount, ratio or percentage then in existence); and
Covenant Compliance
     (b)  a statement that such Senior Financial Officer has reviewed the relevant terms hereof and has made, or caused to be made, under his or her supervision, a review of the transactions and conditions of the Company and its Subsidiaries from the beginning of the quarterly or annual period covered by the statements then being furnished to the date of the certificate and that such review shall
Event of Default
 
not have disclosed the existence during such period of any condition or event that constitutes a Default or an Event of Default or, if any such condition or event existed or exists, specifying the nature and period of existence thereof and what action the Company shall have taken or proposes to take with respect thereto.
     . The Company shall permit the representatives of each holder of Notes that is an Institutional Investor:
Section 7.3. Visitation
     (a)  if no Default or Event of Default then exists, at the expense of such holder and upon reasonable prior notice to the Company, to visit the principal executive office of the Company, to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries with the Company's officers, and, with the consent of the Company (which consent will not be unreasonably withheld) to visit the other offices and properties of the Company and each Material Subsidiary, all at such reasonable times and as often as may be reasonably requested in writing; and
No Default
     (b)  if a Default or Event of Default then exists, at the expense of the Company to visit and inspect any of the offices or properties of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, to examine all their respective books of account, records, reports and other papers, to make copies and extracts therefrom, and to discuss their respective affairs, finances and accounts with their respective officers and independent public accountants (and by this provision the Company authorizes said accountants to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, provided that the Company is given the opportunity to be present for such discussions), all at such times and as often as may be requested.
Default
     (a) The entire unpaid principal amount of the Tranche A Notes shall become due and payable on August 18, 2016.
Section 8.1. Required Prepayments.
     (b) The entire unpaid principal amount of the Tranche B Notes shall become due and payable on August 18, 2018.
     (c) The entire unpaid principal amount of the Tranche C Notes shall become due and payable on August 18, 2021.
     t. The Company may, at its option, upon notice as provided below, prepay at any time all, or from time to time any part of, the Notes, in an amount not less than 10% of the original aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be prepaid in the case of a partial prepayment (or such lesser amount as shall be required to effect a partial prepayment resulting from an offer of prepayment pursuant to Section 10.5), at 100% of the principal amount so prepaid, together with interest accrued thereon to the date of such prepayment, plus the Make-Whole Amount determined for the prepayment date with respect to such principal amount of each Note then outstanding. The Company will give each holder of Notes written notice of each optional prepayment under this Section 8.2 not
Section 8.2. Optional Prepayments with Make-Whole Amoun
 
less than 30 days and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such prepayment. Each such notice shall specify such date (which shall be a Business Day), the aggregate principal amount of the Notes of the applicable Series to be prepaid on such date, the principal amount of each Note held by such holder to be prepaid (determined in accordance with Section 8.3), and the interest to be paid on the prepayment date with respect to such principal amount being prepaid, and shall be accompanied by a certificate of a Senior Financial Officer as to the estimated respective Make-Whole Amount due in connection with such prepayment (calculated as if the date of such notice were the date of the prepayment), setting forth the details of such computation. Two Business Days prior to such prepayment, the Company shall deliver to each holder of Notes of the Series to be prepaid a certificate of a Senior Financial Officer specifying the calculation of each such Make-Whole Amount as of the specified prepayment date.
     . In the case of each partial prepayment of the Notes pursuant to the provisions of Section 8.2, the principal amount of the Notes shall be allocated among all of the Notes at the time outstanding in proportion, as nearly as practicable, to the respective unpaid principal amounts thereof. All regularly scheduled partial prepayments made with respect to any Series of Additional Notes pursuant to any Supplement shall be allocated as provided therein.
Section 8.3. Allocation of Partial Prepayments
     In the case of each prepayment of Notes pursuant to this Section 8, the principal amount of each Note to be prepaid shall mature and become due and payable on the date fixed for such prepayment (which shall be a Business Day), together with interest on such principal amount accrued to such date and the applicable Make-Whole Amount, if any. From and after such date, unless the Company shall fail to pay such principal amount when so due and payable, together with the interest and Make-Whole Amount, if any, as aforesaid, interest on such principal amount shall cease to accrue. Any Note paid or prepaid in full shall be surrendered to the Company and cancelled and shall not be reissued, and no Note shall be issued in lieu of any prepaid principal amount of any Note.
Section 8.4. Maturity; Surrender, Etc.
     . The Company will not and will not permit any Affiliate to purchase, redeem, prepay or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any of the outstanding Notes except (a) upon the payment or prepayment of the Notes in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Notes or (b) pursuant to an offer to purchase made by the Company or an Affiliate pro rata to the holders of all Notes at the time outstanding upon the same terms and conditions. Any such offer shall provide each holder with sufficient information to enable it to make an informed decision with respect to such offer, and shall remain open for at least 15 Business Days. If the holders of more than 50% of the principal amount of the Notes then outstanding accept such offer, the Company shall promptly notify the remaining holders of such fact and the expiration date for the acceptance by holders of Notes of such offer shall be extended by the number of days necessary to give each such remaining holder at least 7 Business Days from its receipt of such notice to accept such offer. The Company will promptly cancel all Notes acquired by it or any Affiliate pursuant to any payment, prepayment or purchase of Notes pursuant to any provision of this Agreement and no Notes may be issued in substitution or exchange for any such Notes.
Section 8.5. Purchase of Notes
 
     . The term means with respect to any Series 2011A Note an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the Discounted Value of the Remaining Scheduled Payments with respect to the Called Principal of such Series 2011A Note, the amount of such Called Principal, that the Make-Whole Amount may in no event be less than zero. For the purposes of determining the Make-Whole Amount, the following terms have the following meanings with respect to the Called Principal of such Series 2011A Note:
Section 8.6. Make-Whole Amount for the Series 2011A Notes
"Make-Whole Amount"
minus
provided
     means, the principal of the Series 2011A Note that is to be prepaid pursuant to Section 8.2 or has become or is declared to be immediately due and payable pursuant to Section 12.1, as the context requires.
"Called Principal"
     means, the amount obtained by discounting all Remaining Scheduled Payments from their respective scheduled due dates to the Settlement Date with respect to such Called Principal, in accordance with accepted financial practice and at a discount factor (applied on the same periodic basis as that on which interest on such Series 2011A Note is payable) equal to the Reinvestment Yield.
"Discounted Value"
     means, 0.50% plus the yield to maturity calculated by using (i) the yields reported, as of 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the second Business Day preceding the Settlement Date on screen "PX-1" on the Bloomberg Financial Market Service (or such other display as may replace Page PX1) on Bloomberg for the most recently issued actively traded on the run U.S. Treasury securities having a maturity equal to the Remaining Average Life of such Called Principal as of such Settlement Date, or (ii) if such yields are not reported as of such time or the yields reported as of such time are not ascertainable (including by way of interpolation), the Treasury Constant Maturity Series Yields reported, for the latest day for which such yields have been so reported as of the second Business Day preceding the Settlement Date, in Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 (519) (or any comparable successor publication) for actively traded U.S. Treasury securities having a constant maturity equal to the Remaining Average Life of such Called Principal as of such Settlement Date.
"Reinvestment Yield"
     In the case of each determination under clause (i) or clause (ii), as the case may be, of the preceding paragraph, such implied yield will be determined, if necessary, by (a) converting U.S. Treasury bill quotations to bond-equivalent yields in accordance with accepted financial practice and (b) interpolating linearly between (1) the applicable U.S. Treasury security with the maturity closest to and greater than such Remaining Average Life and (2) the applicable U.S. Treasury security with the maturity closest to and less than such Remaining Average Life. The Reinvestment Yield shall be rounded to the number of decimal places as appears in the interest rate of the applicable Series 2011A Note.
     means, the number of years (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth year) obtained by dividing (i) such Called Principal into (ii) the sum of the products obtained by multiplying (a) the principal component of each Remaining Scheduled Payment by (b) the number of years (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth
"Remaining Average Life"
 
year) that will elapse between the Settlement Date and the scheduled due date of such Remaining Scheduled Payment.
     means, all payments of such Called Principal and interest thereon that would be due after the Settlement Date if no payment of such Called Principal were made prior to its scheduled due date, that if such Settlement Date is not a date on which interest payments are due to be made under the terms of such Series 2011A Note, then the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued to such Settlement Date and required to be paid on such Settlement Date pursuant to Section 8.2 or 12.1.
"Remaining Scheduled Payments"
provided
     means, the date on which such Called Principal is to be prepaid pursuant to Section 8.2 or has become or is declared to be immediately due and payable pursuant to Section 12.1, as the context requires.
"Settlement Date"
     . (a) The Company will, within 15 Business Days after any Responsible Officer has knowledge of the occurrence of any Change in Control, give written notice of such Change in Control to each holder of Notes notice in respect of such Change in Control shall have been given pursuant to subparagraph (b) of this Section 8.7 and such notice shall contain and constitute an offer to prepay Notes of each Series as described in subparagraph (b) of this Section 8.7 and shall be accompanied by the certificate described in subparagraph (g) of this Section 8.7.
Section 8.7. Change in Control
Notice of Change in Control.
unless
     (b) The offer to prepay Notes contemplated by subparagraph (a) of this Section 8.7 shall be an offer to prepay, in accordance with and subject to this Section 8.7, all, but not less than all, the Notes held by each holder (in this case only, in respect of any Note registered in the name of a nominee for a disclosed beneficial owner shall mean such beneficial owner) on a date specified in such offer (the ). If such Proposed Prepayment Date is in connection with an offer contemplated by subparagraph (a) of this Section 8.7, such date shall be not less than 20 days and not more than 30 days after the date of such offer (if the Proposed Prepayment Date shall not be specified in such offer, the Proposed Prepayment Date shall be the 20th day after the date of such offer).
Offer to Prepay Notes.
"holder"
"Proposed Prepayment Date"
     (c) A holder of Notes may accept or reject the offer to prepay made pursuant to this Section 8.7 by causing a notice of such acceptance or rejection to be delivered to the Company at least 5 Business Days prior to the Proposed Prepayment Date. A failure by a holder of Notes to respond to an offer to prepay made pursuant to this Section 8.7 shall be deemed to constitute a rejection of such offer by such holder.
Acceptance; Rejection.
     (e) Prepayment of the Notes to be prepaid pursuant to this Section 8.7 shall be at 100% of the principal amount of such Notes, together with interest on such Notes accrued to the date of prepayment. The prepayment shall be made on the Proposed Prepayment Date except as provided in subparagraph (f) of this Section 8.7.
Prepayment.
     (f) Each offer to prepay the Notes pursuant to this Section 8.7 shall be accompanied by a certificate, executed by a Senior Financial Officer of the Company
Officer's Certificate.
 
and dated the date of such offer, specifying: (i) the Proposed Prepayment Date; (ii) that such offer is made pursuant to this Section 8.7; (iii) the principal amount of each Note offered to be prepaid; (v) the interest that would be due on each Note offered to be prepaid, accrued to the Proposed Prepayment Date; (v) that the conditions of this Section 8.7 have been fulfilled; and (vi) in reasonable detail, the nature and date or proposed date of the Change in Control.
     (g) The amount of each payment of the principal of the Notes made pursuant to this Section 8.7 shall be applied against and reduce each of the then remaining principal payments due pursuant to any Supplement by a percentage equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Notes so paid divided by the aggregate principal amount of the Notes outstanding immediately prior to such payment.
Effect on Required Payments.
     (h) "Change in Control" means (a) the acquisition of ownership, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any Person or group (within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder as in effect on the date hereof), other than Permitted Holders (as defined below), of Equity Interests representing more than 30% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of the Company; (b) occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of the Company by Persons who were neither (i) nominated by the board of directors of the Company nor (ii) appointed by directors so nominated; or (c) the acquisition of direct or indirect Control of the Company by any Person or group other than Permitted Holders. For purposes of the foregoing, "Permitted Holders" means any descendant of Frederick August Krehbiel (deceased), any spouse of such a descendant, any trust solely for the benefit of one or more of the foregoing and any partnership or other entity Controlled by any of the foregoing.
"Change in Control" Defined.
Section 9.
Affirmative Covenants.
     The Company covenants that so long as any of the Notes are outstanding:
     . Without limiting Section 10.8, the Company will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, ordinances or governmental rules or regulations to which each of them is subject, including, without limitation, ERISA, Environmental Laws, the USA Patriot Act, and the other laws and regulations referred to in Section 5.16 (collectively, the ), and will obtain and maintain in effect all licenses, certificates, permits, franchises and other governmental authorizations necessary to the ownership of their respective properties or to the conduct of their respective businesses, in each case to the extent necessary to ensure that non-compliance with such laws, ordinances or governmental rules or regulations or failures to obtain or maintain in effect such licenses, certificates, permits, franchises and other governmental authorizations would not reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 9.1. Compliance with Law
"Applicable Laws"
     . The Company will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurers, insurance with respect to their respective properties and businesses against such casualties and contingencies, of such types, on such terms and in such amounts (including deductibles, co-insurance and self-
Section 9.2. Insurance
 
insurance, if adequate reserves are maintained with respect thereto) as is customary in the case of entities of established reputations engaged in the same or a similar business and similarly situated.
     . The Company will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, maintain and keep, or cause to be maintained and kept, their respective properties in good repair, working order and condition (other than ordinary wear and tear), so that the business carried on in connection therewith may be properly conducted at all times, that this Section shall not prevent the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary from discontinuing the operation or the maintenance of any of its properties if the discontinuance of such operation is desirable in the conduct of its business and the Company has concluded that the discontinuance of such operation or the failure to maintain such property would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 9.3. Maintenance of Properties
provided
     . The Company will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, file all tax returns required to be filed in any jurisdiction and to pay and discharge all taxes shown to be due and payable on such returns and all other taxes, assessments, governmental charges, or levies imposed on them or any of their properties, assets, income or franchises, to the extent such taxes and assessments have become due and payable and before they have become delinquent and all claims for which sums have become due and payable that have or might become a Lien on properties or assets of the Company or any Subsidiary not permitted by Section 10.4, that neither the Company nor any Subsidiary need pay any such tax or assessment or claims if (i) the amount, applicability or validity thereof is contested by the Company or such Subsidiary on a timely basis in good faith and in appropriate proceedings, and the Company or a Subsidiary has established adequate reserves therefor in accordance with GAAP on the books of the Company or such Subsidiary or (ii) the non-filing or nonpayment, as the case may be, of all such taxes and assessments in the aggregate would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 9.4. Payment of Taxes and Claims
provided
     . Subject to Sections 10.5 and 10.6, the Company will at all times preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence, and will at all times preserve and keep in full force and effect the corporate existence of each of its Restricted Subsidiaries (unless merged into the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary) and all rights and franchises of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries unless, in the good faith judgment of the Company, the termination of or failure to preserve and keep in full force and effect such corporate existence, right or franchise would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 9.5. Corporate Existence, Etc
     The Notes and all other obligations under this Agreement of the Company are and at all times shall remain direct and unsecured obligations of the Company ranking as against the assets of the Company with all other Notes from time to time issued and outstanding hereunder without any preference among themselves and with all Indebtedness outstanding under the Bank Credit Agreement and all other present and future unsecured Indebtedness (actual or contingent) of the Company which is not expressed to be subordinate or junior in rank to any other unsecured Indebtedness of the Company.
Section 9.6. Notes to Rank Pari Passu.
pari passu
pari passu
 
     . The Company will cause any Subsidiary which becomes a party to the Bank Credit Agreement, or otherwise Guarantees Indebtedness in respect of the Bank Credit Agreement, to enter into the Subsidiary Guaranty and deliver to each of the holders of the Notes (concurrently with the incurrence of any such obligation pursuant to the Bank Credit Agreement) the following items:
Section 9.7. Additional Subsidiary Guarantors
     (a) a joinder agreement in respect of the Subsidiary Guaranty;
     (b) a certificate signed by an authorized Responsible Officer of the Company making representations and warranties to the effect of those contained in Sections 5.4, 5.6 and 5.7, with respect to such Subsidiary and the Subsidiary Guaranty, as applicable; and
     (c) an opinion of counsel (who may be in-house counsel for the Company) addressed to each of the holders of the Notes reasonably satisfactory to the Required Holders, to the effect that the Subsidiary Guaranty by such Person has been duly authorized, executed and delivered and that the Subsidiary Guaranty constitutes the legal, valid and binding contract and agreement of such Person enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as an enforcement of such terms may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance and similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general equitable principles.
     The Company may from time to time cause any Subsidiary (other than a Subsidiary Guarantor) to be designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary or any Unrestricted Subsidiary to be designated a Restricted Subsidiary; that at the time of such designation and immediately after giving effect thereto, (a) no Default or Event of Default would exist under the terms of this Agreement, and (b) the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries would be in compliance with all of the covenants set forth in this Section 9 and Section 10 if tested on a pro forma basis as of the last day of the most recently ended fiscal quarter; and, that once a Subsidiary has been designated an Unrestricted Subsidiary, it shall not thereafter be redesignated as a Restricted Subsidiary on more than one occasion and once a Subsidiary has been designated a Restricted Subsidiary, it shall not thereafter be redesignated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary on more than one occasion. Within ten (10) days following any designation described above, the Company will deliver to each holder of Notes that is an Institutional Investor a notice of such designation accompanied by a certificate signed by a Senior Financial Officer of the Company certifying compliance with all requirements of this Section 9.8 and setting forth all information required in order to establish such compliance.
Section 9.8. Designation of Subsidiaries.
provided, however,
provided, further,
     The Company will, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, maintain proper books of record and account in conformity with GAAP and all applicable requirements of any Governmental Authority having legal or regulatory jurisdiction over the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be.
Section 9.9. Books and Records.
Section 10.
Negative Covenants.
     The Company covenants that so long as any of the Notes are outstanding:
 
     The Company will not permit the Leverage Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter of the Company to exceed 3.50 to 1.00.
Section 10.1. Leverage Ratio.
     The Company will not permit the ratio of consolidated EBITDA of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries to Interest Expense for each period of four consecutive fiscal quarters (calculated as at the end of each fiscal quarter for the four consecutive fiscal quarters then ended) to be less than 2.00 to 1.00.
Section 10.2. Interest Coverage Ratio.
     The Company will not at any time permit the aggregate amount of all Priority Indebtedness to exceed 20% of Consolidated Net Worth (Consolidated Net Worth to be determined as of the end of the then most recently ended fiscal quarter of the Company).
Section 10.3. Priority Indebtedness.
     . The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly create, incur, assume or permit to exist (upon the happening of a contingency or otherwise) any Lien on or with respect to any property or asset (including, without limitation, any document or instrument in respect of goods or accounts receivable) of the Company or any such Restricted Subsidiary, whether now owned or held or hereafter acquired, or any income or profits therefrom, or assign or otherwise convey any right to receive income or profits except:
Section 10.4. Limitation on Liens
     (a) Liens for taxes, assessments or other governmental charges that are not yet due and payable or the payment of which is not at the time required by Section 9.4;
     (b) any attachment or judgment Lien, unless the judgment it secures shall not, within 60 days after the entry thereof, have been discharged or execution thereof stayed pending appeal, or shall not have been discharged within 60 days after the expiration of any such stay;
     (c) Liens incidental to the conduct of business or the ownership of properties and assets (including landlords', carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's and other similar Liens for sums not yet due and payable) and Liens to secure the performance of bids, tenders, leases, or trade contracts, or to secure statutory obligations (including obligations under workers compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation), surety or appeal bonds or other Liens incurred in the ordinary course of business and not in connection with the borrowing of money;
     (d) leases or subleases granted to others, easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar charges or encumbrances, in each case incidental to the ownership of property or assets or the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, or Liens incidental to minor survey exceptions and the like, that such Liens do not, in the aggregate, materially detract from the value of such property;
provided
     (e) Liens securing Indebtedness of a Restricted Subsidiary to the Company or to a Restricted Subsidiary;
 
     (f) Liens arising by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to banker's liens, rights of set-off or similar rights and remedies as to deposit accounts or other funds maintained with depository institutions and/or Liens arising in the ordinary course of business with respect to deposit accounts relating to intercompany cash pooling, interest set-off and/or sweeping arrangements;
     (g) licenses of patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights granted in the ordinary course of business;
     (h) Liens deemed to exist in connection with repurchase agreements related to investments;
     (i) Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities arising as a matter of law to secure payment of customs duties in connection with the import or export of goods;
     (j) Liens existing as of the Closing Date and reflected in Schedule 10.4;
     (k) Liens incurred after the Closing Date given to secure the payment of the purchase price incurred in connection with the acquisition, construction or improvement of property (other than accounts receivable or inventory) useful and intended to be used in carrying on the business of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, including Liens existing on such property at the time of acquisition or construction thereof or Liens incurred within 365 days of such acquisition or completion of such construction or improvement, that (i) the Lien shall attach solely to the property acquired, purchased, constructed or improved; (ii) at the time of acquisition, construction or improvement of such property (or, in the case of any Lien incurred within three hundred sixty-five (365) days of such acquisition or completion of such construction or improvement, at the time of the incurrence of the Indebtedness secured by such Lien), the aggregate amount remaining unpaid on all Indebtedness secured by Liens on such property, whether or not assumed by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, shall not exceed the lesser of (y) the cost of such acquisition, construction or improvement or (z) the Fair Market Value of such property (as determined in good faith by one or more officers of the Company to whom authority to enter into the transaction has been delegated by the board of directors of the Company); and (iii) at the time of such incurrence and after giving effect thereto, no Default or Event of Default would exist;
provided
     (l) any Lien incurred after the Closing Date that is existing on property of a Person immediately prior to its being consolidated with or merged into the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary or its becoming a Restricted Subsidiary or any Lien existing on any property acquired by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary at the time such property is so acquired (whether or not the Indebtedness secured thereby shall have been assumed), that (i) no such Lien shall have been created or assumed in contemplation of such consolidation or merger or such Person's becoming a Restricted Subsidiary or such acquisition of property, (ii) each such Lien shall extend solely to the item or items of property so acquired and, if required by the terms of the instrument
provided
 
originally creating such Lien, other property which is an improvement to or is acquired for specific use in connection with such acquired property, and (iii) at the time of such incurrence and after giving effect thereto, no Default or Event of Default would exist;
     (m) Liens incurred after the Closing Date given to secure Indebtedness on property or assets of the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries which Liens were given after the Closing Date, the Company makes, or causes to be made, effective provision whereby the Notes will be equally and ratably secured with any and all other obligations thereby secured, such security to be pursuant to an agreement reasonably satisfactory to the Required Holders and, in any such case, the Notes shall have the benefit, to the fullest extent that, and with such priority as, the holders of the Notes may be entitled under applicable law, of an equitable Lien on such property;
provided
     (n) any extensions, renewals or replacements of any Lien permitted by the preceding subparagraphs (j), (k), (l) and (m) of this Section 10.4, that (i) no additional property shall be encumbered by such Liens, (ii) the unpaid principal amount of the Indebtedness or other obligations secured thereby shall not be increased on or after the date of any extension, renewal or replacement, and (iii) at such time and immediately after giving effect thereto, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing;
provided
     (o) Liens arising out of and securing Entrust Indebtedness;
     (p) Liens on factored receivables securing Factoring Indebtedness not in excess of $60,000,000, for so long as Molex Japan is a Restricted Subsidiary; and
     (q) Liens securing Priority Indebtedness of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, that the aggregate principal amount of any such Priority Indebtedness shall be permitted by Section 10.3, and, that, no such Liens may secure any obligations under the Bank Credit Agreement.
provided
provided further
     The Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of any substantial part (as defined below) of the assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries; that the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets constituting a substantial part of the assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries if such assets are sold in an arms length transaction and, at such time and after giving effect thereto, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and an amount equal to the net proceeds received from such sale, lease or other disposition (but only with respect to that portion of such assets that exceeds the definition of "substantial part" set forth below) shall be used within 365 days of such sale, lease or disposition, in any combination:
Section 10.5. Sales of Assets.
provided, however,
     (1) to acquire productive assets used or useful in carrying on the business of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries and having a value at least equal to the value of such assets sold, leased or otherwise disposed of; and/or
 
     (2) to prepay or retire Senior Indebtedness of the Company and/or its Restricted Subsidiaries, that (i) the Company shall offer to prepay each outstanding Note in a principal amount which equals the Ratable Portion for such Note, and (ii) any such prepayment of the Notes shall be made at par, together with accrued interest thereon to the date of such prepayment, but without the payment of the Make-Whole Amount. Any offer of prepayment of the Notes pursuant to this Section 10.5 shall be given to each holder of the Notes by written notice that shall be delivered not less than fifteen (15) days and not more than sixty (60) days prior to the proposed prepayment date. Each such notice shall state that it is given pursuant to this Section and that the offer set forth in such notice must be accepted by such holder in writing and shall also set forth (i) the prepayment date, (ii) a description of the circumstances which give rise to the proposed prepayment and (iii) a calculation of the Ratable Portion for such holder's Notes. Each holder of the Notes which desires to have its Notes prepaid shall notify the Company in writing delivered not less than five (5) Business Days prior to the proposed prepayment date of its acceptance of such offer of prepayment. Prepayment of Notes pursuant to this Section 10.5 shall be made in accordance with Section 8.2 (but without payment of the Make-Whole Amount).
provided
     As used in this Section 10.5, a sale, lease or other disposition of assets shall be deemed to be a of the assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries if the book value of such assets, when added to the book value of all other assets sold, leased or otherwise disposed of by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries during the period of 12 consecutive months ending on the date of such sale, lease or other disposition, exceeds 10% of the book value of the Consolidated Total Assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, determined as of the end of the fiscal quarter immediately preceding such sale, lease or other disposition; that there shall be excluded from any determination of a "substantial part" any (i) sale or disposition of assets in the ordinary course of business of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, (ii) any transfer of assets from the Company to any Restricted Subsidiary or from any Restricted Subsidiary to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, (iii) any sale or transfer of property acquired by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary after the date of this Agreement to any Person within 365 days following the acquisition or construction of such property by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary if the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary shall concurrently with such sale or transfer, lease such property, as lessee, and (iv) transfers of accounts receivable (and rights ancillary thereto) of Molex Japan pursuant to, and in accordance with the terms of, factoring agreements pursuant to which the Factoring Indebtedness is incurred, provided such Factoring Indebtedness does not exceed $60,000,000 at any time outstanding.
"substantial part"
provided
     The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, consolidate with or merge with any other Person or convey, transfer or lease substantially all of its assets in a single transaction or series of transactions to any Person; that:
Section 10.6. Merger and Consolidation.
provided
     (1) any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company may (x) consolidate with or merge with, or convey, transfer or lease substantially all of its assets in a single transaction or series of transactions to, (i) the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary so long as in any merger or consolidation involving the Company, the Company shall be the
 
surviving or continuing corporation or (ii) any other Person so long as the survivor is the Restricted Subsidiary, or (y) convey, transfer or lease all of its assets in compliance with the provisions of Section 10.5; and
     (2) the foregoing restriction does not apply to the consolidation or merger of the Company with, or the conveyance, transfer or lease of substantially all of the assets of the Company in a single transaction or series of transactions to, any Person so long as:
     (a) the successor formed by such consolidation or the survivor of such merger or the Person that acquires by conveyance, transfer or lease substantially all of the assets of the Company as an entirety, as the case may be (the ), shall be a solvent entity organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia;
"Successor Corporation"
     (b) if the Company is not the Successor Corporation, such Successor Corporation shall have executed and delivered to each holder of Notes its assumption of the due and punctual performance and observance of each covenant and condition of this Agreement (and each Supplement thereto) and the Notes (pursuant to such agreements and instruments as shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Required Holders), and the Successor Corporation shall have caused to be delivered to each holder of Notes (A) an opinion of nationally recognized independent counsel, to the effect that all agreements or instruments effecting such assumption are enforceable in accordance with their terms and (B) an acknowledgment from each Subsidiary Guarantor that the Subsidiary Guaranty continues in full force and effect; and
     (c) immediately after giving effect to such transaction no Default or Event of Default would exist (it being agreed that, for purposes of determining compliance with Sections 10.1 and 10.2, such transaction shall be treated on a pro forma basis for the relevant period as having been consummated as of the last day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter).
     . Except with respect to the Hi-P Equity Buy Back, the Company will not and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to enter into directly or indirectly any Material transaction or Material group of related transactions (including without limitation the purchase, lease, sale or exchange of properties of any kind or the rendering of any service) with any Affiliate (other than the Company or another Restricted Subsidiary), except in the ordinary course and upon fair and reasonable terms that are not materially less favorable to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, taken as a whole, than would be obtainable in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a Person not an Affiliate.
Section 10.7. Transactions with Affiliates
     . The Company will not and will not permit any Controlled Entity to (a) become a Person described or designated in the SDN List or that is officially sanctioned by the United States of America pursuant to the OFAC Sanctions Laws or by any other Governmental Authority pursuant to any Applicable Laws similar in substance to the Foreign Activities Laws or (b) engage in any dealings or transactions with any
Section 10.8. Terrorism Sanctions Regulations
 
such Person where such dealings or transactions would result in any holder of a Note being in violation in any material respect of the Foreign Activities Laws or (c) engage in any dealings or transactions with any Person where such dealings or transactions would result in any holder of a Note being in violation of any Applicable Laws similar in substance to the Foreign Activities Laws.
     . The Company will not permit as of each of (a) the last day of any fiscal quarter and (b) the last day of the month prior to any designation under Section 9.8 of a Subsidiary to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary, (i) the Consolidated Total Assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries to be less than 75% of the Consolidated Total Assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries or (ii) the consolidated EBITDA of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries to be less than 75% of the consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of the Company and its Subsidiaries, for the most recent period of four consecutive fiscal quarters.
Section 10.9. Restricted Subsidiaries
Section 11.
Events of Default.
     An shall exist if any of the following conditions or events shall occur and be continuing:
"Event of Default"
     (a) the Company defaults in the payment of any principal or Make-Whole Amount, if any, on any Note when the same becomes due and payable, whether at maturity or at a date fixed for prepayment or by declaration or otherwise; or
     (b) the Company defaults in the payment of any interest on any Note for more than five Business Days after the same becomes due and payable; or
     (c) the Company defaults in the performance of or compliance with any term contained in Section 10 or any covenant in a Supplement which specifically provides that it shall have the benefit of this paragraph (c) or any Subsidiary Guarantor defaults in the performance of or compliance with any term of the Subsidiary Guaranty beyond any period of grace or cure period provided with respect thereto; or
     (d) the Company defaults in the performance of or compliance with any term contained herein or in any Supplement (other than those referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section 11) and such default is not remedied within 45 days after the earlier of (i) a Responsible Officer obtaining actual knowledge of such default or (ii) the Company receiving written notice of such default from any holder of a Note (any such written notice to be identified as a "notice of default" and to refer specifically to this paragraph (d) of Section 11); or
     (e) any Subsidiary Guaranty ceases to be a legally valid, binding and enforceable obligation or contract of a Subsidiary Guarantor (other than upon a release of any Subsidiary Guarantor from a Subsidiary Guaranty in accordance with the terms of Section 2.3(b) hereof), or any Subsidiary Guarantor or any party by, through or on
 
account of any such Person, challenges the validity, binding nature or enforceability of any such Subsidiary Guaranty; or
     (f) any representation or warranty made in writing by or on behalf of the Company or Subsidiary Guarantor in this Agreement or any Subsidiary Guaranty or by any officer of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor in any writing furnished in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby or by any Subsidiary Guaranty proves to have been false or incorrect in any material respect on the date as of which made; or
     (g) (i) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary is in default (as principal or as guarantor or other surety) in the payment of any principal of or premium or make-whole amount or interest (in the payment amount of at least $100,000) on any Indebtedness other than the Notes that is outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of at least $20,000,000 beyond any period of grace provided with respect thereto, or (ii) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary is in default in the performance of or compliance with any term of any instrument, mortgage, indenture or other agreement relating to any Indebtedness other than the Notes in an aggregate principal amount of at least $20,000,000 or any other condition exists, and as a consequence of such default or condition such Indebtedness has become, or has been declared, due and payable or one or more Persons has the right to declare such Indebtedness to be due and payable before its stated maturity or before its regularly scheduled dates of payment, or (iii) as a consequence of the occurrence or continuation of any event or condition (other than the passage of time or the right of the holder of Indebtedness to convert such Indebtedness into equity interests), the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary has become obligated to purchase or repay Indebtedness other than the Notes before its regular maturity or before its regularly scheduled dates of payment in an aggregate outstanding principal amount of at least $20,000,000 or one or more Persons have the right to require the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary to purchase or repay such Indebtedness; that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no default under the Molex Japan Disputed Indebtedness shall constitute an Event of Default hereunder, unless and until it shall be determined by a final non-appealable judgment (or the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary shall agree in a settlement agreement or other similar agreement) that the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary is liable for the Molex Japan Disputed Indebtedness (or any portion thereof), and the amount of money that the Company or any Subsidiary is obligated to pay with respect thereto shall remain due and unpaid for 60 days after payment is required pursuant to the terms of such judgment or settlement (or similar) agreement; or
provided
     (h) the Company, any Material Subsidiary or any Subsidiary Guarantor (i) is generally not paying, or admits in writing its inability to pay, its debts as they become due, (ii) files, or consents by answer or otherwise to the filing against it of, a petition for relief or reorganization or arrangement or any other petition in bankruptcy, for liquidation or to take advantage of any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar law of any jurisdiction, (iii) makes an assignment for the benefit of its creditors, (iv) consents to the appointment of a custodian, receiver, trustee
 
or other officer with similar powers with respect to it or with respect to any substantial part of its property, (v) is adjudicated as insolvent or to be liquidated, or (vi) takes corporate action for the purpose of any of the foregoing; or
     (i) a court or governmental authority of competent jurisdiction enters an order appointing, without consent by the Company, any of its Material Subsidiaries or any Subsidiary Guarantor, a custodian, receiver, trustee or other officer with similar powers with respect to it or with respect to any substantial part of its property, or constituting an order for relief or approving a petition for relief or reorganization or any other petition in bankruptcy or for liquidation or to take advantage of any bankruptcy or insolvency law of any jurisdiction, or ordering the dissolution, winding-up or liquidation of the Company, any of its Material Subsidiaries or any Subsidiary Guarantor, or any such petition shall be filed against the Company, any of its Material Subsidiaries or any Subsidiary Guarantor and such petition shall not be dismissed within 60 days; or
     (j) a final non-appealable judgment or judgments at any one time outstanding for the payment of money aggregating in excess of $20,000,000 are rendered against one or more of the Company, its Restricted Subsidiaries or any Subsidiary Guarantor and which judgments are not, within 60 days after entry thereof, bonded, discharged or stayed pending appeal, or are not discharged within 60 days after the expiration of such stay; or
     (k) if (i) any Plan shall fail to satisfy the minimum funding standards of ERISA or the Code for any plan year or part thereof or a waiver of such standards or extension of any amortization period is sought or granted under Section 412 of the Code, (ii) a notice of intent to terminate any Plan shall have been or is reasonably expected to be filed with the PBGC or the PBGC shall have instituted proceedings under Section 4042 of ERISA to terminate or appoint a trustee to administer any Plan or the PBGC shall have notified the Company or any ERISA Affiliate that a Plan may become a subject of any such proceedings, (iii) the aggregate "amount of unfunded benefit liabilities" (within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(18) of ERISA) under all Plans, determined in accordance with Title IV of ERISA, shall exceed $20,000,000, (iv) the Company or any ERISA Affiliate shall have incurred or is reasonably expected to incur any liability pursuant to Title I or IV of ERISA or the penalty or excise tax provisions of the Code relating to employee benefit plans, (v) the Company or any ERISA Affiliate withdraws from any Multiemployer Plan, or (vi) the Company or any Subsidiary establishes or amends any employee welfare benefit plan that provides post-employment welfare benefits in a manner that could increase the liability of the Company or any Subsidiary thereunder; and any such event or events described in clauses (i) through (vi) above, either individually or together with any other such event or events, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
As used in Section 11k, the terms and shall have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in Section 3 of ERISA.
(
)
"employee benefit plan"
"employee welfare benefit plan"
 
Section 12.
Remedies on Default, Etc.
     . (a) If an Event of Default with respect to the Company described in paragraph (h) or (i) of Section 11 (other than an Event of Default described in clause (i) of paragraph (h) or described in clause (vi) of paragraph (h) by virtue of the fact that such clause encompasses clause (i) of paragraph (h)) has occurred, all the Notes of every Series then outstanding shall automatically become immediately due and payable.
Section 12.1. Acceleration
     (b) If any other Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Required Holders may at any time at its or their option, by notice or notices to the Company, declare all the Notes then outstanding to be immediately due and payable.
     (c) If any Event of Default described in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 11 has occurred and is continuing with respect to any Notes, any holder or holders of Notes at the time outstanding affected by such Event of Default may at any time, at its or their option, by notice or notices to the Company, declare all the Notes held by such holder or holders to be immediately due and payable.
     Upon any Note becoming due and payable under this Section 12.1, whether automatically or by declaration, such Note will forthwith mature and the entire unpaid principal amount of such Note, plus (i) all accrued and unpaid interest thereon (including, but not limited to, interest accrued thereon at the Default Rate) and (ii) the Make-Whole Amount determined in respect of such principal amount (to the full extent permitted by applicable law), shall all be immediately due and payable, in each and every case without presentment, demand, protest or further notice, all of which are hereby waived. The Company acknowledges, and the parties hereto agree, that each holder of a Note has the right to maintain its investment in the Notes free from repayment by the Company (except as herein specifically provided for) and that the provision for payment of a Make-Whole Amount by the Company in the event that the Notes are prepaid or are accelerated as a result of an Event of Default, is intended to provide compensation for the deprivation of such right under such circumstances.
     . If any Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, and irrespective of whether any Notes have become or have been declared immediately due and payable under Section 12.1, the holder of any Note at the time outstanding may proceed to protect and enforce the rights of such holder by an action at law, suit in equity or other appropriate proceeding, whether for the specific performance of any agreement contained herein or in any Note, or for an injunction against a violation of any of the terms hereof or thereof, or in aid of the exercise of any power granted hereby or thereby or by law or otherwise.
Section 12.2. Other Remedies
     . At any time after the Notes have been declared due and payable pursuant to clause (b) or (c) of Section 12.1, the holders of not less than 51% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, by written notice to the Company, may rescind and annul any such declaration and its consequences if (a) the Company has paid all overdue interest on the Notes, all principal of and Make-Whole Amount on any Notes that are due and payable and are unpaid other than by reason of such declaration, and all interest on such overdue principal and Make-Whole Amount and (to the extent permitted by applicable law) any overdue
Section 12.3. Rescission
 
interest in respect of the Notes at the Default Rate, (b) neither the Company nor any other Person shall have paid any amounts which have become due solely by reason of such declaration, (c) all Events of Default and Defaults, other than non-payment of amounts that have become due solely by reason of such declaration, have been cured or have been waived pursuant to Section 17, and (d) no judgment or decree has been entered for the payment of any monies due pursuant hereto or to any Notes. No rescission and annulment under this Section 12.3 will extend to or affect any subsequent Event of Default or Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
     . No course of dealing and no delay on the part of any holder of any Note in exercising any right, power or remedy shall operate as a waiver thereof or otherwise prejudice such holder's rights, powers or remedies. No right, power or remedy conferred by this Agreement or by any Note upon any holder thereof shall be exclusive of any other right, power or remedy referred to herein or therein or now or hereafter available at law, in equity, by statute or otherwise. Without limiting the obligations of the Company under Section 15, the Company will pay to the holder of each Note on demand such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover all costs and expenses of such holder incurred in any enforcement or collection under this Section 12, including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees, expenses and disbursements.
Section 12.4. No Waivers or Election of Remedies, Expenses, Etc
Section 13.
Registration; Exchange; Substitution of Notes.
     s. The Company shall keep at its principal executive office a register for the registration and registration of transfers of Notes. The name and address of each holder of one or more Notes, each transfer thereof and the name and address of each transferee of one or more Notes shall be registered in such register. Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer, the Person in whose name any Note shall be registered shall be deemed and treated as the owner and holder thereof for all purposes hereof, and the Company shall not be affected by any notice or knowledge to the contrary. The Company shall give to any holder of a Note that is an Institutional Investor promptly upon request therefor, a complete and correct copy of the names and addresses of all registered holders of Notes.
Section 13.1. Registration of Note
     . Upon surrender of any Note to the Company at the address and to the attention of the designated officer (all as specified in Section 18(iv)), for registration of transfer or exchange (and in the case of a surrender for registration of transfer accompanied by a written instrument of transfer duly executed by the registered holder of such Note or such holder's attorney duly authorized in writing and accompanied by the relevant name, address and other information for notices of each transferee of such Note or part thereof), within ten Business Days thereafter, the Company shall execute and deliver, at the Company's expense (except as provided below), one or more new Notes (as requested by the holder thereof) of the same Series (and of the same tranche if such Series has separate tranches) in exchange therefor, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the unpaid principal amount of the surrendered Note. Each such new Note shall be payable to such Person as such holder may request and shall be substantially in the form of the Note of such Series originally issued hereunder or pursuant to any Supplement. Each such new Note shall be dated and bear interest from the date to which interest shall have been paid on the surrendered Note or dated the date of the surrendered Note if no interest shall have been paid thereon. The Company
Section 13.2. Transfer and Exchange of Notes
 
may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any stamp tax or governmental charge imposed in respect of any such transfer of Notes. Notes shall not be transferred in denominations of less than $100,000, that if necessary to enable the registration of transfer by a holder of its entire holding of Notes, one Note may be in a denomination of less than $100,000. Any transferee, by its acceptance of a Note registered in its name (or the name of its nominee), shall be deemed to have made the representation set forth in Section 6.3, , that in lieu thereof such holder may (in reliance upon information provided by the Company, which shall not be unreasonably withheld) make a representation to the effect that the purchase by any holder of any Note will not constitute a non-exempt prohibited transaction under section 406(a) of ERISA.
provided
provided
     The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act or under the securities laws of any state and may not be transferred or resold unless registered under the Securities Act and all applicable state securities laws or unless an exemption from the requirement for such registration is available.
     . Upon receipt by the Company at the address and to the attention of the designated officer (all as specified in Section 18(iv)) of evidence reasonably satisfactory to it of the ownership of and the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of any Note (which evidence shall be, in the case of an Institutional Investor, notice from such Institutional Investor of such ownership and such loss, theft, destruction or mutilation), and
Section 13.3. Replacement of Notes
     (a) in the case of loss, theft or destruction, of indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it (that if the holder of such Note is, or is a nominee for, an original Purchaser or another holder of a Note with a minimum net worth of at least $50,000,000 or a Qualified Institutional Buyer, such Person's own unsecured agreement of indemnity shall be deemed to be satisfactory), or
provided
     (b) in the case of mutilation, upon surrender and cancellation thereof,
the Company at its own expense shall execute and deliver not more than five Business Days following satisfaction of such conditions, in lieu thereof, a new Note of the same Series (and of the same tranche if such Series has separate tranches), dated and bearing interest from the date to which interest shall have been paid on such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Note or dated the date of such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Note if no interest shall have been paid thereon.
Section 14.
Payments on Notes.
     . Subject to Section 14.2, payments of principal, Make-Whole Amount and interest becoming due and payable on the Notes shall be made in Chicago, Illinois at the principal office of Bank of America, N.A. in such jurisdiction. The Company may at any time, by notice to each holder of a Note, change the place of payment of the Notes so long as such place of payment shall be either the principal office of the Company in such jurisdiction or the principal office of a bank or trust company in such jurisdiction.
Section 14.1. Place of Payment
     . So long as any Purchaser or Additional Purchaser or such Purchaser's nominee or such Additional Purchaser's nominee shall be the holder of any
Section 14.2. Home Office Payment
 
Note, and notwithstanding anything contained in Section 14.1 or in such Note to the contrary, the Company will pay all sums becoming due on such Note for principal, Make-Whole Amount and interest by the method and at the address specified for such purpose for such Purchaser on Schedule A hereto or, in the case of any Additional Purchaser, Schedule A attached to any Supplement pursuant to which such Additional Purchaser is a party, or by such other method or at such other address as such Purchaser or Additional Purchaser shall have from time to time specified to the Company in writing for such purpose, without the presentation or surrender of such Note or the making of any notation thereon, except that upon written request of the Company made concurrently with or reasonably promptly after payment or prepayment in full of any Note, such Purchaser or Additional Purchaser shall surrender such Note for cancellation, reasonably promptly after any such request, to the Company at its principal executive office or at the place of payment most recently designated by the Company pursuant to Section 14.1. Prior to any sale or other disposition of any Note held by any Purchaser or Additional Purchaser or such Person's nominee, such Person will, at its election, either endorse thereon the amount of principal paid thereon and the last date to which interest has been paid thereon or surrender such Note to the Company in exchange for a new Note or Notes pursuant to Section 13.2. The Company will afford the benefits of this Section 14.2 to any Institutional Investor that is the direct or indirect transferee of any Note.
Section 15.
Expenses, Etc.
     . Whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated, the Company will pay all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees of a special counsel for the Purchasers or any Additional Purchasers and, if reasonably required by the Required Holders, local or other counsel) incurred by each Purchaser and each Additional Purchaser and each other holder of a Note in connection with such transactions and in connection with any amendments, waivers or consents under or in respect of this Agreement (including any Supplement) or the Notes (whether or not such amendment, waiver or consent becomes effective), including, without limitation: (a) the reasonable and documented costs and expenses incurred in enforcing or defending (or determining whether or how to enforce or defend) any rights under this Agreement (including any Supplement) or the Notes or in responding to any subpoena or other legal process or informal investigative demand issued in connection with this Agreement (including any Supplement) or the Notes, or by reason of being a holder of any Note, and (b) the costs and expenses, including financial advisors' fees, incurred in connection with the insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company or any Subsidiary or in connection with any work-out or restructuring of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the Notes, that, in connection with the Closing, the Company will not be required to pay the attorneys' fees for more than a single firm of special counsel acting for all Purchasers. The Company will pay, and will save each Purchaser, each Additional Purchaser and each other holder of a Note harmless from, all claims in respect of any fees, costs or expenses if any, of brokers and finders (other than those, if any, retained by a Purchaser or other holder in connection with its purchase of the Notes).
Section 15.1. Transaction Expenses
provided
     . The obligations of the Company under this Section 15 will survive the payment or transfer of any Note, the enforcement, amendment or waiver of any
Section 15.2. Survival
 
provision of this Agreement, any Supplement or the Notes, and the termination of this Agreement or any Supplement.
Section 16.
Survival of Representations and Warranties; Entire Agreement.
     All representations and warranties contained herein or in any Supplement shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement, such Supplement and the Notes, the purchase or transfer by any Purchaser or any Additional Purchaser of any such Note or portion thereof or interest therein and the payment of any Note may be relied upon by any subsequent holder of any such Note, regardless of any investigation made at any time by or on behalf of any Purchaser or any Additional Purchaser or any other holder of any such Note. All statements contained in any certificate or other instrument delivered by or on behalf of the Company pursuant to this Agreement or any Supplement shall be deemed representations and warranties of the Company under this Agreement; that the representations and warranties contained in any Supplement shall only be made for the benefit of the Additional Purchasers which are party to such Supplement and the holders of the Notes issued pursuant to such Supplement, including subsequent holders of any Note issued pursuant to such Supplement, and shall not require the consent of the holders of existing Notes. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement (including every Supplement) and the Notes embody the entire agreement and understanding between the Purchasers and the Additional Purchasers and the Company and supersede all prior agreements and understandings relating to the subject matter hereof.
provided,
Section 17.
Amendment and Waiver.
     . (a) This Agreement (including any Supplement) and the Notes may be amended, and the observance of any term hereof or of the Notes may be waived (either retroactively or prospectively), with (and only with) the written consent of the Company and the Required Holders, except that (i) no amendment or waiver of any of the provisions of Section 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 21 hereof or the corresponding provision of any Supplement, or any defined term (as it is used in any such Section or such corresponding provision of any Supplement), will be effective as to any holder of Notes unless consented to by such holder of Notes in writing, and (ii) no such amendment or waiver may, without the written consent of all of the holders of Notes at the time outstanding affected thereby, (A) subject to the provisions of Section 12 relating to acceleration or rescission, change the amount or time of any prepayment or payment of principal of, or reduce the rate or change the time of payment or method of computation of interest (if such change results in a decrease in the interest rate) or of the Make-Whole Amount on, the Notes, (B) change the percentage of the principal amount of the Notes the holders of which are required to consent to any such amendment or waiver, or (C) amend any of Sections 8, 11(a), 11(b), 12, 17 or 20.
Section 17.1. Requirements
     (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Company may enter into any Supplement providing for the issuance of one or more Series of Additional Notes consistent with Sections 2.2 hereof without obtaining the consent of any holder of any other Series of Notes.
Supplements.
 
     .
Section 17.2. Solicitation of Holders of Notes
     (a) The Company will provide each holder of the Notes (irrespective of the amount of Notes then owned by it) with sufficient information, sufficiently far in advance of the date a decision is required, to enable such holder to make an informed and considered decision with respect to any proposed amendment, waiver or consent in respect of any of the provisions hereof, any Supplement or of the Notes. The Company will deliver executed or true and correct copies of each amendment, waiver or consent effected pursuant to the provisions of this Section 17 to each holder of outstanding Notes promptly following the date on which it is executed and delivered by, or receives the consent or approval of, the requisite holders of Notes.
Solicitation.
     (b) The Company will not directly or indirectly pay or cause to be paid any remuneration, whether by way of supplemental or additional interest, fee or otherwise, or grant any security or provide other credit support, to any holder of Notes as consideration for or as an inducement to the entering into by any holder of Notes of any waiver or amendment of any of the terms and provisions hereof or any Supplement unless such remuneration is concurrently paid, or security is concurrently granted or other credit support is concurrently provided, on the same terms, ratably to each holder of Notes then outstanding even if such holder did not consent to such waiver or amendment.
Payment.
     (c) . Any consent made pursuant to this Section 17 by a holder of Notes that has transferred or has agreed to transfer its Notes to the Company, any Subsidiary or any Affiliate of the Company and has provided or has agreed to provide such written consent as a condition to such transfer shall be void and of no force or effect except solely as to such holder, and any amendments effected or waivers granted or to be effected or granted that would not have been or would not be so effected or granted but for such consent (and the consents of all other holders of Notes that were acquired under the same or similar conditions) shall be void and of no force or effect except solely as to such holder.
Consent in Contemplation of Transfer
     . Any amendment or waiver consented to as provided in this Section 17 applies equally to all holders of Notes and is binding upon them and upon each future holder of any Note and upon the Company without regard to whether such Note has been marked to indicate such amendment or waiver. No such amendment or waiver will extend to or affect any obligation, covenant, agreement, Default or Event of Default not expressly amended or waived or impair any right consequent thereon. No course of dealing between the Company and the holder of any Note nor any delay in exercising any rights hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver of any rights of any holder of such Note. As used herein, the term "this Agreement" and references thereto shall mean this Agreement as it may from time to time be amended or supplemented.
Section 17.3. Binding Effect, Etc
     . Solely for the purpose of determining whether the holders of the requisite percentage of the aggregate principal amount of Notes then outstanding approved or consented to any amendment, waiver or consent to be given under this Agreement or the Notes, or have directed the taking of any action provided herein or in the Notes to be taken upon the direction of the holders of a specified percentage of the aggregate principal
Section 17.4. Notes Held by Company, Etc
 
amount of Notes then outstanding, Notes directly or indirectly owned by the Company or any of its Affiliates shall be deemed not to be outstanding.
Section 18.
Notices.
     All notices and communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing and sent (a) by telecopy if the sender on the same day sends a confirming copy of such notice by a recognized overnight delivery service (charges prepaid), (b) by a recognized overnight delivery service (with charges prepaid) or (c) by posting to IntraLinks or a similar service reasonably acceptable to the Required Holders if the sender on the same day sends or causes to be sent notice of such posting by email or in accordance with clause (a) or (b) above. Any such notice must be sent:
     (i) if to a Purchaser or such Purchaser's nominee, to such Purchaser or such Purchaser's nominee at the address or, in the case of clause (c) above, the email address, specified for such communications in Schedule A to this Agreement, or at such other address as such Purchaser or such Purchaser's nominee shall have specified to the Company in writing pursuant to this Section 18;
     (ii) if to an Additional Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser's nominee, to such Additional Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser's nominee at the address, or in the case of clause (c) above, the email address, specified for such communications in Schedule A to any Supplement, or at such other address as such Additional Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser's nominee shall have specified to the Company in writing,
     (iii) if to any other holder of any Note, to such holder at such address as such other holder shall have specified to the Company in writing pursuant to this Section 18, or
     (iv) if to the Company, to the Company at its address set forth at the beginning hereof to the attention of Chief Financial Officer, with a copy to the General Counsel, or at such other address as the Company shall have specified to the holder of each Note in writing.
Notices under this Section 18 will be deemed given only when actually received.
Section 19.
Reproduction of Documents.
     This Agreement and all documents relating thereto, including, without limitation, (a) consents, waivers and modifications that may hereafter be executed, (b) documents received by any Purchaser at the Closing or by any Additional Purchaser (except the Notes themselves), and (c) financial statements, certificates and other information previously or hereafter furnished to any Purchaser or any Additional Purchaser, may be reproduced by such Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser by any photographic, photostatic, electronic, digital, or other similar process and such Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser may destroy any original document so reproduced. The Company agrees and stipulates that, to the extent permitted by applicable law,
 
any such reproduction shall be admissible in evidence as the original itself in any judicial or administrative proceeding (whether or not the original is in existence and whether or not such reproduction was made by such Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser in the regular course of business) and any enlargement, facsimile or further reproduction of such reproduction shall likewise be admissible in evidence. This Section 19 shall not prohibit the Company or any other holder of Notes from contesting any such reproduction to the same extent that it could contest the original, or from introducing evidence to demonstrate the inaccuracy of any such reproduction.
.
Section 20.
Confidential Information
     For the purposes of this Section 20, " means information delivered to any Purchaser or any Additional Purchaser by or on behalf of the Company or any Subsidiary in connection with the transactions contemplated by or otherwise pursuant to this Agreement that is proprietary in nature and that was clearly marked or labeled or otherwise adequately identified when received by such Purchaser as being confidential information of the Company or such Subsidiary, that such term does not include information that (a) was publicly known or otherwise known to such Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser prior to the time of such disclosure, (b) subsequently becomes publicly known through no act or omission by such Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser or any Person acting on such Purchaser's or such Additional Purchaser's behalf, (c) otherwise becomes known to such Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser other than through disclosure by the Company or any Subsidiary or (d) constitutes financial statements delivered to such Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser under Section 7.1 that are otherwise publicly available. Each Purchaser and each Additional Purchaser will maintain the confidentiality of such Confidential Information in accordance with procedures adopted by such Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser in good faith to protect confidential information of third parties delivered to such Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser, that such Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser may deliver or disclose Confidential Information to (i) such Purchaser's or such Additional Purchaser's directors, trustees, officers, employees, agents, attorneys and affiliates (to the extent such disclosure reasonably relates to the administration of the investment represented by such Purchaser's or such Additional Purchaser's Notes), (ii) such Purchaser's or such Additional Purchaser's financial advisors and other professional advisors who agree to hold confidential the Confidential Information substantially in accordance with the terms of this Section 20, (iii) any other holder of any Note, (iv) any Institutional Investor to which such Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser sells or offers to sell such Note or any part thereof or any participation therein (if such Person has agreed in writing prior to its receipt of such Confidential Information to be bound by the provisions of this Section 20), (v) any Person from which such Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser offers to purchase any security of the Company (if such Person has agreed in writing prior to its receipt of such Confidential Information to be bound by the provisions of this Section 20), (vi) any federal or state regulatory authority having jurisdiction over such Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser, (vii) the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or any similar organization, or any nationally recognized rating agency that requires access to information about such Purchaser's or such Additional Purchaser's investment portfolio, or (viii) any other Person to which such delivery or disclosure may be necessary or appropriate (w) to effect compliance with any law, rule, regulation or order applicable to such
"Confidential Information
provided
provided
 
Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser, (x) in response to any subpoena or other legal process, (y) in connection with any litigation to which such Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser is a party or (z) if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, to the extent such Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser may reasonably determine such delivery and disclosure to be necessary or appropriate in the enforcement or for the protection of the rights and remedies under such Purchaser's or such Additional Purchaser's Notes, the Subsidiary Guaranty and this Agreement. Each holder of a Note, by its acceptance of a Note, will be deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to be entitled to the benefits of this Section 20 as though it were a party to this Agreement. On reasonable request by the Company in connection with the delivery to any holder of a Note of information required to be delivered to such holder under this Agreement or requested by such holder (other than a holder that is a party to this Agreement or its nominee), such holder will enter into an agreement with the Company embodying the provisions of this Section 20.
Section 21.
Substitution of Purchaser.
     Each Purchaser and each Additional Purchaser shall have the right to substitute any one of its Affiliates as the purchaser of the Notes that it has agreed to purchase hereunder, by written notice to the Company, which notice shall be signed by both such Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser and such Affiliate, shall contain such Affiliate's agreement to be bound by this Agreement and shall contain a confirmation by such Affiliate of the accuracy with respect to it of the representations set forth in Section 6. Upon receipt of such notice, any reference to such Purchaser or such Additional Purchaser in this Agreement (other than in this Section 21), shall be deemed to refer to such Affiliate in lieu of such original Purchaser or such original Additional Purchaser. In the event that such Affiliate is so substituted as a Purchaser or an Additional Purchaser hereunder and such Affiliate thereafter transfers to such original Purchaser or such original Additional Purchaser all of the Notes then held by such Affiliate, upon receipt by the Company of notice of such transfer, any reference to such Affiliate as a "Purchaser" or an "Additional Purchaser" in this Agreement (other than in this Section 21), shall no longer be deemed to refer to such Affiliate, but shall refer to such original Purchaser or such original Additional Purchaser, and such original Purchaser or such original Additional Purchaser shall again have all the rights of an original holder of the Notes under this Agreement.
Section 22.
Miscellaneous.
     . All covenants and other agreements contained in this Agreement (including all covenants and other agreements contained in any Supplement) by or on behalf of any of the parties hereto bind and inure to the benefit of their respective successors and assigns (including, without limitation, any subsequent holder of a Note) whether so expressed or not.
Section 22.1. Successors and Assigns
     . Anything in this Agreement or the Notes to the contrary notwithstanding (but without limiting the requirement in Section 8.4 that the notice of any optional prepayment specify a Business Day as the date fixed for such prepayment), any payment of principal of or Make-Whole Amount or interest on any Note that is due on a date other than a Business Day shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day
Section 22.2. Payments Due on Non-Business Days
 
without including the additional days elapsed in the computation of the interest payable on such next succeeding Business Day; provided that if the maturity date of any Note is a date other than a Business Day, the payment otherwise due on such maturity date shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day and shall include the additional days elapsed in the computation of interest payable on such next succeeding Business Day.
     . All accounting terms used herein which are not expressly defined in this Agreement have the meanings respectively given to them in accordance with GAAP. Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, (i) all computations made pursuant to this Agreement shall be made in accordance with GAAP, and (ii) all financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with GAAP. For purposes of determining compliance with the covenants set out in this Agreement, any election by the Company to measure an item of Indebtedness using fair value (as permitted by Accounting Standard Codification Topic No. 820  or 825-10-25  ) shall be disregarded and such determination shall be made by valuing indebtedness at 100% of the outstanding principal thereof. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the determination of whether a lease constitutes a capital lease or an operating lease, and whether obligations arising under a lease are required to be capitalized on the balance sheet of the lessee thereunder and/or recognized as interest expense, shall be determined by reference to GAAP as in effect on the date of this Agreement; and (b) if the Company notifies the Purchasers that the Company requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if Required Holders notify the Company that they request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith.
Section 22.3. Accounting Terms
Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures
Fair Value Option
     . Any provision of this Agreement that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall (to the full extent permitted by law) not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Section 22.4. Severability
     . Each covenant contained herein shall be construed (absent express provision to the contrary) as being independent of each other covenant contained herein, so that compliance with any one covenant shall not (absent such an express contrary provision) be deemed to excuse compliance with any other covenant. Where any provision herein refers to action to be taken by any Person, or which such Person is prohibited from taking, such provision shall be applicable whether such action is taken directly or indirectly by such Person.
Section 22.5. Construction
     For the avoidance of doubt, all Schedules and Exhibits attached to this Agreement shall be deemed to be a part hereof.
 
     . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original but all of which together shall constitute one instrument. Each counterpart may consist of a number of copies hereof, each signed by less than all, but together signed by all, of the parties hereto.
Section 22.6. Counterparts
     . This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and the rights of the parties shall be governed by, the law of the State of Illinois excluding choice-of-law principles of the law of such State that would permit the application of the laws of a jurisdiction other than such State.
Section 22.7. Governing Law
     . (a) The Company irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any Illinois state or federal court sitting in Cook County, Chicago, Illinois over any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Company irrevocably waives and agrees not to assert, by way of motion, as a defense or otherwise, any claim that it is not subject to the jurisdiction of any such court, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court and any claim that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
Section 22.8. Jurisdiction and Process; Waiver of Jury Trial
     (b) The Company consents to process being served by or on behalf of any holder of Notes in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in Section 22.8(a) by mailing a copy thereof by registered or certified mail (or any substantially similar form of mail), postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to it at its address specified in Section 18 or at such other address of which such holder shall then have been notified pursuant to said Section. The Company agrees that such service upon receipt (i) shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process upon it in any such suit, action or proceeding and (ii) shall, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be taken and held to be valid personal service upon and personal delivery to it. Notices hereunder shall be conclusively presumed received as evidenced by a delivery receipt furnished by the United States Postal Service or any reputable commercial delivery service.
     (c) Nothing in this Section 22.8 shall affect the right of any holder of a Note to serve process in any manner permitted by law, or limit any right that the holders of any of the Notes may have to bring proceedings against the Company in the courts of any appropriate jurisdiction or to enforce in any lawful manner a judgment obtained in one jurisdiction in any other jurisdiction.
     (d) 
The parties hereto hereby waive trial by jury in any action brought on or with respect to this Agreement, the Notes or any other document executed in connection herewith or therewith.
 
     The execution hereof by the Purchasers shall constitute a contract among the Company and the Purchasers for the uses and purposes hereinabove set forth. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each executed counterpart constituting an original but all together only one agreement.
 
Accepted as of the date first written above.
 
Accepted as of the date first written above.
 
Accepted as of the date first written above.
 
Accepted as of the date first written above.
 
Accepted as of the date first written above.
 
Accepted as of the date first written above.
 
 
     As used herein, the following terms have the respective meanings set forth below or set forth in the Section hereof following such term:
     means either (a) the assets constituting a business, division, facility, product line or line of business of any Person not already a Restricted Subsidiary or (b) all or a portion of the capital stock of any such Person, which Person shall, as a result of an acquisition or mergerbecome a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company (or shall be merged with the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, provided that the Company shall be the surviving Person of any merger involving the Company and a Restricted Subsidiary shall be the surviving Person of any other such merger).
"Acquired Entity or Business"
,
     is defined in Section 2.2.
"Additional Notes"
     means purchasers of Additional Notes.
"Additional Purchasers"
     means JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, in its capacity as administrative agent under the Bank Credit Agreement, together with its successors and assigns in such capacity.
"Administrative Agent"
     means, at any time, and with respect to any Person, (a) any other Person that at such time directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries Controls, or is Controlled by, or is under common Control with, such first Person, and (b) any Person beneficially owning or holding, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of any class of voting or equity interests of the Company or any Subsidiary or any Person of which the Company and its Subsidiaries beneficially own or hold, in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of any class of voting or equity interests. As used in this definition, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise. Unless the context otherwise clearly requires, any reference to an is a reference to an Affiliate of the Company.
"Affiliate"
"Control"
"Affiliate"
     is defined in Section 5.16(b).
"Anti-Corruption Laws"
     is defined in Section 5.16(b).
"Anti-Money Laundering Laws"
     means Executive Order No. 13,224 of September 24, 2001, Blocking Property and Prohibiting Transactions with Persons Who Commit, Threaten to Commit or Support Terrorism, 66 U.S. Fed. Reg. 49, 079 (2001), as amended.
"Anti-Terrorism Order"
     is defined in Section 9.1.
"Applicable Laws"
     means the Credit Agreement dated as of June 9, 2009 by and among the Company, certain Subsidiaries of the Company named therein, JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, and the other financial institutions party
"Bank Credit Agreement"
 
thereto, as amended, restated, joined, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, and any renewals, extensions or replacements thereof, which constitute the primary bank credit facility of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
     means the banks and financial institutions party to the Bank Credit Agreement.
"Bank Lenders"
     means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which commercial banks in Chicago, Illinois are required or authorized to be closed.
"Business Day"
     of any Person means the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, and the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP.
"Capital Lease Obligations"
     is defined in Section 8.7(h).
"Change in Control"
     means the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010, United States Public Law 111195, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder from time to time in effect.
"CISADA"
     is defined in Section 3.
"Closing"
     means the date of the Closing.
"Closing Date"
     means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder from time to time.
"Code"
     means Molex Incorporated, a Delaware corporation.
"Company"
     is defined in Section 20.
"Confidential Information"
     means as of any date of determination the total amount of all Indebtedness of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
"Consolidated Indebtedness"
     shall mean the consolidated stockholder's equity of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, as defined according to GAAP.
"Consolidated Net Worth"
     means, for any Person, as of any date of determination, the total amount of all assets of such Person, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
"Consolidated Total Assets"
 
     means any of the Subsidiaries of the Company and any of their or the Company's respective Controlled Affiliates. As used in this definition, "Control" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
"Controlled Entity"
     means an event or condition the occurrence or existence of which would, with the lapse of time or the giving of notice or both, become an Event of Default.
"Default"
     means with respect to the Notes of any Series that rate of interest that is 2% per annum above the rate of interest stated in clause (a) of the first paragraph of the Notes of such Series (and of such tranche if such Series has separate tranches).
"Default Rate"
     means, for any applicable computation period, Net Income from continuing operations for such period, plus, to the extent included in the determination of such Net Income (but without duplication), (a) income and franchise taxes paid or accrued, (b) Interest Expense, (c) amortization and depreciation, (d) non-cash stock-based compensation expense, (e) non-cash impairment charges, (f) other non-recurring non-cash charges, losses and expenses properly deductible in determining Net Income for such period minus, to the extent included in the determination of such Net Income, (g) non-cash gains or income arising in connection with the Restructuring, and (h) other non-recurring non-cash gains or income for such period. For purposes of the computation of the Leverage Ratio (i) for any period during which an Acquired Entity or Business was acquired, EBITDA shall be calculated on a pro forma basis as if such Acquired Entity or Business had been acquired (and any related Indebtedness incurred) on the first day of such period and (ii) for any period during which a Restricted Subsidiary or business was disposed of, EBITDA shall be calculated on a pro forma basis as if such Restricted Subsidiary or business had been disposed of on the first day of such period.
"EBITDA"
     means Indebtedness of a Restricted Subsidiary indirectly owed (through a bank or other financial institution acting as an intermediary) to another Restricted Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of the People's Republic of China.
"Entrust Indebtedness"
     means any and all federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including but not limited to those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
"Environmental Laws"
     means shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity ownership interests in a Person, and any warrants, options or other rights entitling the holder thereof to purchase or acquire any such equity interest.
"Equity Interests"
 
     means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder from time to time in effect.
"ERISA"
     means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that is treated as a single employer together with the Company under section 414 of the Code.
"ERISA Affiliate"
     is defined in Section 11.
"Event of Default"
     means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"Exchange Act"
     means, at any time, the amount at such time of outstanding receivables or similar obligations sold by Molex Japan pursuant to a factoring agreement with a non-affiliated third party that would be characterized as principal if such factoring agreement were structured as a secured lending transaction rather than as a purchase of receivables.
"Factoring Indebtedness"
     means, at any time and with respect to any property, the sale value of such property that would be realized in an arm's-length sale at such time between an informed and willing buyer and an informed and willing seller (neither being under a compulsion to buy or sell), as reasonably determined in the good faith opinion of the Company's board of directors.
"Fair Market Value"
     is defined in Section 5.16(b).
"FCPA"
     means collectively the Trading with the Enemy Act, the OFAC Sanctions Laws, the USA Patriot Act and CISADA.
"Foreign Activities Laws"
     means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (which may include International Financial Reporting Standards) that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination; that, (i) with respect to the financial statements of Foreign Subsidiaries (except to the extent included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company), "GAAP" shall mean the generally accepted accounting principles in the relevant foreign jurisdiction which are set forth from time to time in the opinions and pronouncements of the applicable accounting standards board (or similar agency) of such foreign jurisdiction which are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, and (ii) with respect to leases, "GAAP" shall be subject to Section 22.3.
"GAAP"
provided
     means
"Governmental Authority"
     (a) the government of
     (i) the United States of America or any state or other political subdivision thereof, or
     (ii) any jurisdiction in which the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary conducts all or any part of its business, or which has jurisdiction over any properties of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, or
 
     (b) any entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of, or pertaining to, any such government.
     shall mean direct obligations of the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality of the United States of America, the payment or guarantee of which constitutes a full faith and credit obligation of the United States of America.
"Government Obligations"
     of or by any Person (the "guarantor") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Indebtedness or obligation; provided, that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business. The amount of any Guarantee made by any guarantor shall be deemed to be the lower of (a) the stated or determinable amount of the primary obligation in respect of which such Guarantee is made and (b) the maximum amount for which such guarantor may be liable pursuant to the terms of the instrument embodying such Guarantee, unless (in the case of a primary obligation that is not Indebtedness) such primary obligation and the maximum amount for which such guarantor may be liable are not stated or determinable, in which case the amount of such Guarantee shall be such guarantor's maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the Company in good faith.
"Guarantee"
     means the sale in a single transaction or series of transactions by the Company of its 178,236,020 shares in Hi-P International Limited that are owned and held by the Company as of the Closing Date.
"Hi-P Equity Buy Back"
     means, with respect to any Note, the Person in whose name such Note is registered in the register maintained by the Company pursuant to Section 13.1.
"holder"
     of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property acquired by such Person, (d) all obligations of such Person in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (excluding current accounts payable incurred in the ordinary course of business), (e) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the Indebtedness secured thereby has been assumed (it being understood that if such Person has not assumed or otherwise become personally liable for any such Indebtedness, the amount of
"Indebtedness"
 
the Indebtedness of such Person in connection therewith shall be limited to the lesser of the face amount of such Indebtedness or the Fair Market Value of all property of such Person securing such Indebtedness), (f) all Guarantees by such Person of Indebtedness of others, (g) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (h) all obligations of such Person as an account party in respect of letters of credit and letters of guaranty for amounts drawn under such letters of credit and letters of guaranty, (i) all obligations contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of bankers' acceptances, and (j) all Off Balance Sheet Liabilities. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness provide that such Person is not liable therefor.
     means (a) any original purchaser of a Note, (b) any holder of more than $2,000,000 of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, and (c) any bank, trust company, savings and loan association or other financial institution, any pension plan, any investment company, any insurance company, any broker or dealer, or any other similar financial institution or entity, regardless of legal form.
"Institutional Investor"
     shall mean, for any period, the gross interest expense of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries deducted in the calculation of Net Income for such period, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
"Interest Expense"
     shall mean all investments, in cash or by delivery of property made, directly or indirectly in any Person, whether by acquisition of shares of capital stock, Indebtedness or other obligations or securities or by loan, advance, capital contribution or otherwise.
"Investments"
     means, at any time, the ratio of Total Debt at such time to EBITDA for the most recently completed four fiscal quarters of the Company, all calculated for the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
"Leverage Ratio"
     means, with respect to any Person, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or other encumbrance, or any interest or title of any vendor, lessor, lender or other secured party to or of such Person under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement (other than an operating lease) or Capital Lease, upon or with respect to any property or asset of such Person (including, in the case of stock, shareholder agreements, voting trust agreements and all similar arrangements).
"Lien"
     shall have the meaning (i) set forth in Section 8.6 with respect to any Series 2011A Note and (ii) set forth in the applicable Supplement with respect to any other Series of Notes.
"Make-Whole Amount"
     means material in relation to the business, operations, financial condition, assets or properties of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
"Material"
 
     means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, operations, financial condition, assets or properties of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole, or (b) the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under this Agreement (including any Supplement) and the Notes, (c) the ability of any Subsidiary Guarantor to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Guaranty or (d) the validity or enforceability of this Agreement (including any Supplement), the Notes or the Subsidiary Guaranty.
"Material Adverse Effect"
     means, at any time, any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company which, together with all other Restricted Subsidiaries of such Restricted Subsidiary, accounts for more than (i) 5% of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries or (ii) 5% of consolidated revenue of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries.
"Material Subsidiary"
     is defined in Section 5.3.
"Memorandum"
     means Molex Japan Co., LTD., a company organized under the laws of Japan.
"Molex Japan"
     means the disputed liability of the Company and/or its Restricted Subsidiaries relating to unauthorized activities at Molex Japan, as described in the Company's Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011.
"Molex Japan Disputed Indebtedness"
     means any Plan that is a "multiemployer plan" (as such term is defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA).
"Multiemployer Plan"
     shall mean, for any period, the consolidated net income (or loss) of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
"Net Income"
     is defined in Section 1.
"Notes"
     is defined in Section 5.16(a).
"OFAC Sanctions Laws"
     of a Person means (a) any repurchase obligation or liability of such Person with respect to accounts or notes receivable sold by such Person, (b) any liability under any Sale and Leaseback Transaction other than Capital Lease Obligations, (c) any liability under any so-called "synthetic lease" arrangement or transaction entered into by such Person, or (d) any obligation arising with respect to any other transaction which is the functional equivalent of or takes the place of borrowing but which does not constitute a liability on the balance sheet of such Person.
"Off-Balance Sheet Liability"
     means a certificate of a Senior Financial Officer or of any other officer of the Company whose responsibilities extend to the subject matter of such certificate.
"Officer's Certificate"
 
     means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA or any successor thereto.
"PBGC"
     means an individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, association, trust, unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
"Person"
     means an "employee benefit plan" (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) that is or, within the preceding five years, has been established or maintained, or to which contributions are or, within the preceding five years, have been made or required to be made, by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate or with respect to which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate may have any liability.
"Plan"
     means (without duplication), as of the date of any determination thereof, the sum of (i) all unsecured Indebtedness of Restricted Subsidiaries (including all Guaranties of Indebtedness of the Company but excluding (w) Indebtedness owing to the Company or any other Restricted Subsidiary, (x) Indebtedness outstanding at the time such Person became a Restricted Subsidiary (other than an Unrestricted Subsidiary which is designated as a Restricted Subsidiary pursuant to Section 9.8 hereof), provided that such Indebtedness shall have not been incurred in contemplation of such person becoming a Restricted Subsidiary, and (y) all Indebtedness of any Restricted Subsidiary which has also guaranteed the Notes), and (ii) all Indebtedness of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries secured by Liens other than Indebtedness secured by Liens permitted by subparagraphs (a) through (p), inclusive, of Section 10.4.
"Priority Indebtedness"
     or means, unless otherwise specifically limited, real or personal property of any kind, tangible or intangible, choate or inchoate.
"property"
"properties"
     means the purchasers of the Notes named in Schedule A hereto.
"Purchasers"
     means Prohibited Transaction Class Exemption 84-14 issued by the United States Department of Labor.
"QPAM Exemption"
     means any Person who is a qualified institutional buyer within the meaning of such term as set forth in Rule 144(a)(1) under the Securities Act.
"Qualified Institutional Buyer"
     means, with respect to any Note, an amount equal to the product of (x) the amount equal to the net proceeds being so applied to the prepayment of Senior Indebtedness in accordance with Section 10.5(2), multiplied by (y) a fraction the numerator of which is the outstanding principal amount of such Note and the denominator of which is the aggregate principal amount of Senior Indebtedness of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries being prepaid pursuant to Section 10.5(2).
"Ratable Portion"
     means, at any time, the holders of not less than 51% in principal amount of the Notes of all Series at the time outstanding (exclusive of Notes then owned by the
"Required Holders"
 
Company or any of its Affiliates and any Notes held by parties who are contractually required to abstain from voting with respect to matters affecting the holders of the Notes).
     means any Senior Financial Officer and any other officer of the Company with responsibility for the administration of the relevant portion of this Agreement.
"Responsible Officer"
     means any Subsidiary (i) in which at least a majority of the voting securities are owned by the Company and/or one or more Restricted Subsidiaries and (ii) which the Company has not designated an Unrestricted Subsidiary by notice in writing given to the holders of the Notes.
"Restricted Subsidiary"
     means Standard & Poor's Ratings Group, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
"S&P"
     means any sale or other transfer of property by any Person with the intent to lease such property as lessee.
"Sale and Leaseback Transaction"
     is defined in Section 5.14(a).
"SDN List"
     means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
"Securities Act"
     means the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer, corporate treasury manager or comptroller of the Company.
"Senior Financial Officer"
     means, as of the date of any determination thereof, all Consolidated Indebtedness, other than Subordinated Indebtedness.
"Senior Indebtedness"
     means any series of Notes issued pursuant to this Agreement or any Supplement hereto.
"Series"
     is defined in Section 1.
"Series 2011A Notes"
     means all unsecured Indebtedness of the Company which shall contain or have applicable thereto subordination provisions providing for the subordination thereof to other Indebtedness of the Company (including, without limitation, the obligations of the Company under this Agreement, any Supplement or the Notes).
"Subordinated Indebtedness"
     means, as to any Person, any corporation, association or other business entity in which such Person or one or more of its Subsidiaries or such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries owns sufficient equity or voting interests to enable it or them (as a group) ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, to elect a majority of the directors (or Persons performing similar functions) of such entity, and any partnership or joint venture if more than a 50% interest in the profits or capital thereof is owned by such Person or one or more of its Subsidiaries or such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries (unless such partnership can and does ordinarily take major business actions without the prior approval of such Person or one or
"Subsidiary"
 
more of its Subsidiaries). Unless the context otherwise clearly requires, any reference to a "Subsidiary" is a reference to a Subsidiary of the Company.
     means each Subsidiary which is party to the Subsidiary Guaranty.
"Subsidiary Guarantor"
     is defined in Section 2.3.
"Subsidiary Guaranty"
     is defined in Section 2.2.
"Supplement"
     is defined in Section 5.16(a).
"Trading with the Enemy Act"
     means all Notes of a Series having the same maturity, interest rate and schedule for mandatory prepayments.
"tranche"
     is defined in Section 1.1.
"Tranche A Notes"
     is defined in Section 1.1.
"Tranche B Notes"
     is defined in Section 1.1.
"Tranche C Notes"
     means the sum, without duplication, of (a) all Indebtedness of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, calculated in accordance with GAAP, plus (b) the face amount of all outstanding letters of credit (other than trade letters of credit) in respect of which the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary has any actual reimbursement obligation, plus (c) the principal amount of all Guarantees by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness, plus (d) the stated amount of all obligations of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries under letters of guarantee, plus (e) the amount of all Factoring Indebtedness. Notwithstanding the foregoing, "Total Debt" shall not include contingent obligations of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary under letters of credit issued and letters of guaranty obtained to support underlying obligations that do not constitute Indebtedness or any Guarantee of any such contingent obligation, except to the extent that the aggregate amount of all such contingent obligations (without duplication and excluding obligations under trade letters of credit) exceeds $15,000,000.
"Total Debt"
     means any Subsidiary so designated by the Company.
"Unrestricted Subsidiary"
     means United States Public Law 107-56, Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (USA PATRIOT ACT) Act of 2001, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder from time to time in effect.
"USA Patriot Act"
 
     None.
 
 
Annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010
Current report on Form 8-K dated August 6, 2010
Current report on Form 8-K dated October 26, 2010
Quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2010
Current report on Form 8-K dated November 3, 2010
Current report on Form 8-K dated November 25, 2010
Quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2010
Current report on Form 8-K dated February 3, 2011
Current report on Form 8-K dated March 25, 2011
Quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2011
Current report on Form 8-K dated April 25, 2011
Current report on Form 8-K dated May 3, 2011
Annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011
Current report on Form 8-K dated August 3, 2011
 
 
 
     , the undersigned, (herein called the ), a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, hereby promises to pay to [_____________________] or registered assigns, the principal sum of [______________] (or so much thereof as shall not have been prepaid) on August 18, 2016 with interest (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) (a) on the unpaid balance hereof at the rate of 2.91% per annum from the date hereof, payable semi-annually, on the 18th day of February and August in each year and at maturity, commencing on February 18, 2012, until the principal hereof shall have become due and payable, and (b) to the extent permitted by law, at a rate per annum from time to time equal to 4.91% on any overdue payment of interest and, during the continuance of an Event of Default, on the unpaid balance hereof and on any overdue payment of any Make-Whole Amount, payable semiannually as aforesaid (or, at the option of the registered holder hereof, on demand).
For Value Received
Molex Incorporated
"Company"
Dollars
     Payments of principal of, interest on and any Make-Whole Amount with respect to this Note are to be made in lawful money of the United States of America at the principal office of Bank of America, N.A. in Chicago, Illinois or at such other place as the Company shall have designated by written notice to the holder of this Note as provided in the Note Purchase Agreement referred to below.
     This Note is one of a series of Senior Notes (herein called the ) issued pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of August 18, 2011 (as from time to time amended, supplemented or modified, the ), between the Company and the respective Purchasers named therein and is entitled to the benefits thereof. Each holder of this Note will be deemed, by its acceptance hereof, to have (i) agreed to the confidentiality provisions set forth in Section 20 of the Note Purchase Agreement and (ii) made the representations set forth in Sections 6.2 and 6.3 of the Note Purchase Agreement, , that in lieu thereof such holder may (in reliance upon information provided by the Company, which shall not be unreasonably withheld) make a representation to the effect that the purchase by any holder of any Note will not constitute a non-exempt prohibited transaction under section 406(a) of ERISA. Unless otherwise indicated, capitalized terms used in this Note shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Note Purchase Agreement.
"Notes"
"Note Purchase Agreement"
provided
     This Note is a registered Note and, as provided in the Note Purchase Agreement, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer, duly endorsed, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer duly executed, by the registered holder hereof or such holder's attorney duly authorized in writing, a new Note for a like principal amount will be issued to, and registered in the name of, the transferee. Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer, the
 
Company may treat the person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for the purpose of receiving payment and for all other purposes, and the Company will not be affected by any notice to the contrary.
     The Company will make required prepayments of principal on the date and in the amounts specified in the Note Agreement. This Note is subject to optional prepayment, in whole or from time to time in part, at the times and on the terms specified in the Note Purchase Agreement, but not otherwise.
     Pursuant to the Subsidiary Guaranty Agreement dated as of August 18, 2011 (as amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time, the ), certain Subsidiaries of the Company have absolutely and unconditionally guaranteed payment in full of the principal of, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and interest on this Note and the performance by the Company of its obligations contained in the Note Purchase Agreement all as more fully set forth in said Subsidiary Guaranty.
"Subsidiary Guaranty"
     If an Event of Default, as defined in the Note Purchase Agreement, occurs and is continuing, the principal of this Note may be declared or otherwise become due and payable in the manner, at the price (including any applicable Make-Whole Amount) and with the effect provided in the Note Purchase Agreement.
     This Note shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and the rights of the issuer and holder hereof shall be governed by, the law of the State of Illinois excluding choice-of-law principles of the law of such State that would require the application of the laws of a jurisdiction other than such State.
 
     , the undersigned, (herein called the ), a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, hereby promises to pay to [_____________________] or registered assigns, the principal sum of [______________] (or so much thereof as shall not have been prepaid) on August 18, 2018 with interest (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) (a) on the unpaid balance hereof at the rate of 3.59% per annum from the date hereof, payable semi-annually, on the 18th day of February and August in each year and at maturity, commencing on February 18, 2012, until the principal hereof shall have become due and payable, and (b) to the extent permitted by law, at a rate per annum from time to time equal to 5.59% on any overdue payment of interest and, during the continuance of an Event of Default, on the unpaid balance hereof and on any overdue payment of any Make-Whole Amount, payable semiannually as aforesaid (or, at the option of the registered holder hereof, on demand).
For Value Received
Molex Incorporated
"Company"
Dollars
     Payments of principal of, interest on and any Make-Whole Amount with respect to this Note are to be made in lawful money of the United States of America at the principal office of Bank of America, N.A. in Chicago, Illinois or at such other place as the Company shall have designated by written notice to the holder of this Note as provided in the Note Purchase Agreement referred to below.
     This Note is one of a series of Senior Notes (herein called the ) issued pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of August 18, 2011 (as from time to time amended, supplemented or modified, the ), between the Company and the respective Purchasers named therein and is entitled to the benefits thereof. Each holder of this Note will be deemed, by its acceptance hereof, to have (i) agreed to the confidentiality provisions set forth in Section 20 of the Note Purchase Agreement and (ii) made the representations set forth in Sections 6.2 and 6.3 of the Note Purchase Agreement, , that in lieu thereof such holder may (in reliance upon information provided by the Company, which shall not be unreasonably withheld) make a representation to the effect that the purchase by any holder of any Note will not constitute a non-exempt prohibited transaction under section 406(a) of ERISA. Unless otherwise indicated, capitalized terms used in this Note shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Note Purchase Agreement.
"Notes"
"Note Purchase Agreement"
provided
     This Note is a registered Note and, as provided in the Note Purchase Agreement, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer, duly endorsed, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer duly executed, by the registered holder hereof or such holder's attorney duly authorized in writing, a new Note for a like principal amount will be issued to, and registered in the name of, the transferee. Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer, the
 
Company may treat the person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for the purpose of receiving payment and for all other purposes, and the Company will not be affected by any notice to the contrary.
     The Company will make required prepayments of principal on the date and in the amounts specified in the Note Agreement. This Note is subject to optional prepayment, in whole or from time to time in part, at the times and on the terms specified in the Note Purchase Agreement, but not otherwise.
     Pursuant to the Subsidiary Guaranty Agreement dated as of August 18, 2011 (as amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time, the ), certain Subsidiaries of the Company have absolutely and unconditionally guaranteed payment in full of the principal of, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and interest on this Note and the performance by the Company of its obligations contained in the Note Purchase Agreement all as more fully set forth in said Subsidiary Guaranty.
"Subsidiary Guaranty"
     If an Event of Default, as defined in the Note Purchase Agreement, occurs and is continuing, the principal of this Note may be declared or otherwise become due and payable in the manner, at the price (including any applicable Make-Whole Amount) and with the effect provided in the Note Purchase Agreement.
     This Note shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and the rights of the issuer and holder hereof shall be governed by, the law of the State of Illinois excluding choice-of-law principles of the law of such State that would require the application of the laws of a jurisdiction other than such State.
 
     , the undersigned, (herein called the ), a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, hereby promises to pay to [_____________________] or registered assigns, the principal sum of [______________] (or so much thereof as shall not have been prepaid) on August 18, 2021 with interest (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) (a) on the unpaid balance hereof at the rate of 4.28% per annum from the date hereof, payable semi-annually, on the 18th day of February and August in each year and at maturity, commencing on February 18, 2012, until the principal hereof shall have become due and payable, and (b) to the extent permitted by law, at a rate per annum from time to time equal to 6.28% on any overdue payment of interest and, during the continuance of an Event of Default, on the unpaid balance hereof and on any overdue payment of any Make-Whole Amount, payable semiannually as aforesaid (or, at the option of the registered holder hereof, on demand).
For Value Received
Molex Incorporated
"Company"
Dollars
     Payments of principal of, interest on and any Make-Whole Amount with respect to this Note are to be made in lawful money of the United States of America at the principal office of Bank of America, N.A. in Chicago, Illinois or at such other place as the Company shall have designated by written notice to the holder of this Note as provided in the Note Purchase Agreement referred to below.
     This Note is one of a series of Senior Notes (herein called the ) issued pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of August 18, 2011 (as from time to time amended, supplemented or modified, the ), between the Company and the respective Purchasers named therein and is entitled to the benefits thereof. Each holder of this Note will be deemed, by its acceptance hereof, to have (i) agreed to the confidentiality provisions set forth in Section 20 of the Note Purchase Agreement and (ii) made the representations set forth in Sections 6.2 and 6.3 of the Note Purchase Agreement, , that in lieu thereof such holder may (in reliance upon information provided by the Company, which shall not be unreasonably withheld) make a representation to the effect that the purchase by any holder of any Note will not constitute a non-exempt prohibited transaction under section 406(a) of ERISA. Unless otherwise indicated, capitalized terms used in this Note shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Note Purchase Agreement.
"Notes"
"Note Purchase Agreement"
provided
     This Note is a registered Note and, as provided in the Note Purchase Agreement, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer, duly endorsed, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer duly executed, by the registered holder hereof or such holder's attorney duly authorized in writing, a new Note for a like principal amount will be issued to, and registered in the name of, the transferee. Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer, the
 
Company may treat the person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for the purpose of receiving payment and for all other purposes, and the Company will not be affected by any notice to the contrary.
     The Company will make required prepayments of principal on the date and in the amounts specified in the Note Agreement. This Note is subject to optional prepayment, in whole or from time to time in part, at the times and on the terms specified in the Note Purchase Agreement, but not otherwise.
     Pursuant to the Subsidiary Guaranty Agreement dated as of August 18, 2011 (as amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time, the ), certain Subsidiaries of the Company have absolutely and unconditionally guaranteed payment in full of the principal of, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and interest on this Note and the performance by the Company of its obligations contained in the Note Purchase Agreement all as more fully set forth in said Subsidiary Guaranty.
"Subsidiary Guaranty"
     If an Event of Default, as defined in the Note Purchase Agreement, occurs and is continuing, the principal of this Note may be declared or otherwise become due and payable in the manner, at the price (including any applicable Make-Whole Amount) and with the effect provided in the Note Purchase Agreement.
     This Note shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and the rights of the issuer and holder hereof shall be governed by, the law of the State of Illinois excluding choice-of-law principles of the law of such State that would require the application of the laws of a jurisdiction other than such State.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     This , dated as of August 18, 2011 (this ), from each of:
Subsidiary Guaranty Agreement
"Guaranty"
for the benefit of the holders from time to time of the Notes (as defined below) (the ). Capitalized terms used herein are defined in Section 14 hereof or the Note Purchase Agreement referred to below.
"Holders"
     , Molex Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the ) will authorize the issue and sale of (i) $50,000,000 2.91% Series 2011A Senior Notes, Tranche A, due August 18, 2016 (the ), (ii) $50,000,000 3.59% Series 2011A Senior Notes, Tranche B, due August 18, 2018 (the ) and (iii) $50,000,000 4.28% Series 2011A Senior Notes, Tranche C, due August 18, 2021 (the and, together with the Tranche A Notes and the Trance C Notes, the ), pursuant to a Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of the date hereof (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the ) among the Company and the purchasers named therein.
Whereas
"Company"
"Tranche A Notes"
"Tranche B Notes"
"Tranche C Notes"
"Series 2011A Notes"
"Note Purchase Agreement"
     , the Company is authorized to issue Additional Notes (as such term is defined in the Note Purchase Agreement) of one or more separate series from time to time in an aggregate principal amount of Additional Notes of all series not to exceed $600,000,000 pursuant to Section 2.2 of the Note Purchase Agreement.
Whereas
     the Additional Notes together with the Series 2011A Notes are collectively referred to as the .
Whereas,
"Notes"
     , each of the Subsidiary Guarantors is a Subsidiary of the Company.
Whereas
 
     , the Company has agreed that certain of its Subsidiaries will guarantee the Company's obligations under the Notes and the Note Purchase Agreement.
Whereas
     , the Subsidiary Guarantors each acknowledge that they will derive substantial benefits from the issuance of the Notes.
Whereas
     , in consideration of the premises and to induce the Holders to purchase the Notes, each of the Subsidiary Guarantors, intending to be legally bound, hereby agrees for the benefit of the Holders, as follows:
Now, Therefore
Section 1.
Guaranty.
     Each Subsidiary Guarantor with all other Subsidiary Guarantorshereby absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees, jointly and severally, as a primary obligor and not merely as a surety, to each Holder, and its successors and assigns permitted under the Note Purchase Agreement, the full and punctual payment and performance when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of the principal of and Make-Whole Amount, if any, and interest on (including, without limitation, interest, whether or not an allowable claim, accruing after the date of filing of any petition in bankruptcy, or the commencement of any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding relating to the Company) the Notes and all other amounts under the Note Purchase Agreement and all other obligations, agreements and covenants of the Company now or hereafter existing under the Note Purchase Agreement whether for principal, Make-Whole Amount, interest (including interest accruing or becoming owing both prior to and subsequent to the commencement of any proceeding against or with respect to the Company under any chapter of the Bankruptcy Code), indemnification payments, expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) or otherwise, and all reasonable costs and expenses, if any, incurred by any Holder in connection with enforcing any rights under this Guaranty (all such obligations being the ), and agrees to pay any and all reasonable expenses incurred by each Holder in enforcing this Guaranty; that, notwithstanding anything contained herein or in the Note Purchase Agreement to the contrary, the maximum liability of each Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder and under the Note Purchase Agreement shall in no event exceed such Guarantor's Maximum Guaranteed Amount, and, each Subsidiary Guarantor shall be unconditionally required to pay all amounts demanded of it hereunder prior to any determination of such Maximum Guaranteed Amount and the recipient of such payment, if so required by a final non-appealable order of a court of competent jurisdiction, shall then be liable for the refund of any excess amounts. If any such rebate or refund is ever required, all other Subsidiary Guarantors (and the Company) shall be fully liable for the repayment thereof to the maximum extent allowed by applicable law. This Guaranty is an absolute, unconditional, present and continuing guaranty of payment and not of collectibility and is in no way conditioned upon any attempt to collect from the Company or any other action, occurrence or circumstance whatsoever. Each Subsidiary Guarantor agrees that the Guaranteed Obligations may at any time and from to time exceed the Maximum Guaranteed Amount of such Subsidiary Guarantor without impairing this Guaranty or affecting the rights and remedies of the Holders hereunder.
,
"Guaranteed Obligations"
provided
provided further,
 
     Notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such action against the Company, if for any reason whatsoever the Company shall fail or be unable duly, punctually and fully to perform and (in the case of the payment of Guaranteed Obligations) pay such amounts as and when the same shall become due and (in the case of the payment of Guaranteed Obligations) payable or to perform or comply with any other Guaranteed Obligation, whether or not such failure or inability shall constitute an "Event of Default" under the Note Purchase Agreement or the Notes, each Subsidiary Guarantor will forthwith (in the case of the payment of Guaranteed Obligations) pay or cause to be paid such amounts to the Holders, in lawful money of the United States of America, at the place specified in the Note Purchase Agreement, or perform or comply with such Guaranteed Obligations or cause such Guaranteed Obligations to be performed or complied with, (in the case of the payment of Guaranteed Obligations) together with interest (in the amounts and to the extent required under such Notes) on any amount due and owing.
Section 2.
Representations and Warranties.
     Each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby represents and warrants as follows:
     (a) All representations and warranties contained in the Note Purchase Agreement that relate to such Subsidiary Guarantor are true and correct in all respects and are incorporated by reference with the same force and effect as though set forth herein in full.
     (b) Such Subsidiary Guarantor acknowledges that any default in the due observance or performance by such Subsidiary Guarantor of any covenant, condition or agreement contained herein (if, after the running of any applicable notice and opportunity to cure periods provided in the Note Purchase Agreement, such default or event of default remains uncured) shall constitute an Event of Default.
     (c) There are no conditions precedent to the effectiveness of this Guaranty that have not been satisfied or expressly waived.
     (d) Such Subsidiary Guarantor has, independently and without reliance upon the Holders and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Guaranty. Such Subsidiary Guarantor has investigated fully the benefits and advantages which will be derived by it from execution of this Guaranty, and the Board of Directors (or other equivalent authority) of such Subsidiary Guarantor has decided that a direct and/or an indirect benefit will accrue to such Subsidiary Guarantor by reason of the execution of this Guaranty.
     (e) (i) This Guaranty is not given with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud any Person to which such Subsidiary Guarantor is or will become, on or after the date hereof, indebted; (ii) such Subsidiary Guarantor has received at least a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the giving of this Guaranty; (iii) such Subsidiary Guarantor is not insolvent on the date hereof and will not become insolvent as a result of the giving of this Guaranty; (iv) such Subsidiary Guarantor is not engaged in a business or transaction, nor is about to engage in a business or transaction, for which any property remaining with such Subsidiary Guarantor
 
constitutes an unreasonably small amount of capital; and (v) such Subsidiary Guarantor does not intend to incur debts that will be beyond such Subsidiary Guarantor's ability to pay as such debts mature.
     (f) Such Subsidiary Guarantor is a corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other legal entity duly organized and validly existing under the laws of its state of organization, and has the requisite power, authority and legal right under the laws of its state of organization to conduct its business as presently conducted and to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Guaranty.
     (g) The execution, delivery and performance of this Guaranty have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate, limited liability or limited partnership, as applicable, action on the part of such Subsidiary Guarantor. This Guaranty constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Subsidiary Guarantor, enforceable against such Subsidiary Guarantor in accordance with its terms, except that such enforceability is subject to any limitations arising from bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, moratorium, reorganization and other similar laws of general application relating to or affecting the rights of creditors or pledgees and to general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
     (h) The execution, delivery and performance of this Guaranty do not and will not conflict with or result in any violation of or default under any provision of the Certificate/Articles of Incorporation, Certificate of Formation or Certificate of Limited Liability Partnership, or by-laws, limited liability company agreement, operating agreement or partnership agreement, as the case may be, of such Subsidiary Guarantor, or any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, instrument, law, rule or regulation binding on such Subsidiary Guarantor or to which such Subsidiary Guarantor is a party.
     (i) The execution, delivery and performance of this Guaranty do not and will not result in violation of any judgment or order applicable to such Subsidiary Guarantor or result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any of the properties of such Subsidiary Guarantor pursuant to any requirement of law or any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust or other Material agreement to which such Subsidiary Guarantor is a party.
     (j) The execution, delivery and performance of this Guaranty do not and will not require any consent, approval or authorization of, or registration or filing with, any governmental authority or agency of the state of organization of such Subsidiary Guarantor or of the United States or any State.
     (k) There are no pending or, to the knowledge of such Subsidiary Guarantor, threatened actions or proceedings against or affecting such Subsidiary Guarantor or any of its properties by or before any court or administrative agency or arbiter that would adversely affect the ability of such Subsidiary Guarantor to perform its obligations hereunder or call into question the validity or enforceability of this Guaranty.
 
     (l) Such Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations under this Guaranty are at least in right of payment with all other unsecured claims of the general creditors of such Subsidiary Guarantor.
pari passu
     (m) No Subsidiary Guarantor is in breach of or default under or with respect to any instrument, document or agreement binding upon such Subsidiary Guarantor which breach or default is reasonably probable to have a Material Adverse Effect or result in the creation of a Lien on any property of such Subsidiary Guarantor other than Liens permitted under Section 10.4 of the Note Purchase Agreement. Such Subsidiary Guarantor is in compliance with all applicable requirements of law except such non-compliance as would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
.
Section 3.
Subsidiary Guarantor's Obligations Unconditional
     (a) This Guaranty shall constitute a guarantee of payment, performance and compliance and not of collection, and each Subsidiary Guarantor specifically agrees that it shall not be necessary, and that such Subsidiary Guarantor shall not be entitled to require, before or as a condition of enforcing the liability of such Subsidiary Guarantor under this Guaranty or requiring payment or performance of the Guaranteed Obligations by any Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder, or at any time thereafter, that any Holder: (a) file suit or proceed to obtain or assert a claim for personal judgment against the Company or any other Person that may be liable for or with respect to any Guaranteed Obligation; (b) make any other effort to obtain payment or performance of any Guaranteed Obligation from the Company or any other Person that may be liable for or with respect to such Guaranteed Obligation, except for the making of the demands, when appropriate, described in Section 1; (c) foreclose against, or seek to realize upon security now or hereafter existing for such Guaranteed Obligations; (d) except to the extent set forth in Section 1, exercise or assert any other right or remedy to which such Holder is or may be entitled in connection with any Guaranteed Obligation or any security or other guaranty therefor; or (e) assert or file any claim against the assets of the Company or any other Person liable for any Guaranteed Obligation. Each Subsidiary Guarantor agrees that this Guaranty shall be continuing, and that the Guaranteed Obligations will be paid and performed in accordance with their terms and the terms of this Guaranty, and are the primary, absolute and unconditional obligations of such Subsidiary Guarantor, irrespective of the value, genuineness, validity, legality, regularity or enforceability or lack thereof of any part of the Guaranteed Obligations or any agreement or instrument relating to the Guaranteed Obligations or this Guaranty, or the existence of any indemnities with respect to the existence of any other guarantee of or security for any of the Guaranteed Obligations, or any substitution, release or exchange of any other guarantee of or security for any of the Guaranteed Obligations, and, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, irrespective of any other circumstance whatsoever that might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor, it being the intent of this Section 3 that the obligations of each Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder shall be irrevocable, primary, absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances.
     (b) Each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby expressly waives notice of acceptance of and reliance upon this Guaranty, diligence, presentment, demand of payment or performance, protest and all other notices (except as otherwise provided for in Section 1) whatsoever, any requirement
 
that the Holders exhaust any right, power or remedy or proceed against the Company or against any other Person under any other guarantee of, or security for, or any other agreement, regarding any of the Guaranteed Obligations. Each Subsidiary Guarantor further agrees that, subject solely to the requirement of making demands under Section 1, the occurrence of any event or other circumstance that might otherwise vary the risk of the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor or constitute a defense (legal or equitable) available to, or a discharge of, or a counterclaim or right of set-off by, the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor (other than the full and indefeasible due payment and performance of the Guaranteed Obligations), shall not affect the liability of such Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder.
     (c) The obligations of each Subsidiary Guarantor under this Guaranty are not subject to any counterclaim, set-off, deduction, diminution, abatement, recoupment, suspension, deferment or defense based upon any claim such Subsidiary Guarantor or any other Person may have against the Company, any Holder or any other Person, and shall remain in full force and effect without regard to, and shall not be released, discharged or in any way affected by, any circumstances or condition whatsoever (whether or not such Subsidiary Guarantor or the Company shall have any knowledge or notice thereof), including:
     (i) any renewal, extension, modification, increase, decrease, alteration or rearrangement of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations or any instrument executed in connection therewith, or any contract or understanding with the Company, the Holders, or any of them, or any other Person, pertaining to the Guaranteed Obligations;
     (ii) any adjustment, indulgence, forbearance or compromise that might be granted or given by any Holder to the Company or any other Person liable on the Guaranteed Obligations, or the failure of any Holder to assert any claim or demand or to exercise any right or remedy against the Company or any other Person under the provisions of the Note Purchase Agreement, the Notes or otherwise; or any rescission, waiver, amendment or modification of, or any release from any of the terms or provisions of, the Note Purchase Agreement, the Notes, any guarantee or any other agreement;
     (iii) the insolvency, bankruptcy arrangement, adjustment, composition, liquidation, disability, dissolution or lack of power of the Company or any other Person at any time liable for the payment of all or part of the Guaranteed Obligations; or any dissolution of the Company or any other such Person, or any change, restructuring or termination of the existence of the Company or any other such Person, or any sale, lease or transfer of any or all of the assets of the Company or any other such Person, or any change in the shareholders, partners, or members of the Company or any other such Person; or any default, failure or delay, willful or otherwise, in the performance of the Guaranteed Obligations;
     (iv) the invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations, or any document or agreement executed in connection with the Guaranteed Obligations, for any reason whatsoever, including the fact that the Guaranteed Obligations, or any part thereof, exceed the amount permitted by law, the act
 
of creating the Guaranteed Obligations or any part is , the officers or representatives executing the documents or otherwise creating the Guaranteed Obligations acted in excess of their authority, the Guaranteed Obligations violate applicable usury laws, the Company or any other Person has valid defenses, claims or offsets (whether at law, in equity or by agreement) which render the Guaranteed Obligations wholly or partially uncollectible from the Company or any other Person, the creation, performance or repayment of the Guaranteed Obligations (or the execution, delivery and performance of any document or instrument representing part of the Guaranteed Obligations or executed in connection with the Guaranteed Obligations or given to secure the repayment of the Guaranteed Obligations) is illegal, uncollectible, legally impossible or unenforceable, or the documents or instruments pertaining to the Guaranteed Obligations have been forged or otherwise are irregular or not genuine or authentic;
ultra vires
     (v) any full or partial release of the liability of the Company on the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof, of any co-guarantors, or of any other Person now or hereafter liable, whether directly or indirectly, jointly, severally, or jointly and severally, to pay, perform, guarantee or assure the payment of the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof, it being recognized, acknowledged and agreed by each Subsidiary Guarantor that such Subsidiary Guarantor may be required to pay the Guaranteed Obligations in full without assistance or support of any other Person, and such Subsidiary Guarantor has not been induced to enter into this Guaranty on the basis of a contemplation, belief, understanding or agreement that any parties other than the Company will be liable to perform the Guaranteed Obligations, or that the Holders will look to other parties to perform the Guaranteed Obligations;
     (vi) the taking or accepting of any other security, collateral or guaranty, or other assurance of payment, for all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations;
     (vii) any release, surrender, exchange, subordination, deterioration, waste, loss or impairment (including negligent, unreasonable or unjustifiable impairment) of any collateral, property or security, at any time existing in connection with, or assuring or securing payment of, all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations;
     (viii) the failure of any Holder or any other Person to exercise diligence or reasonable care in the preservation, protection, enforcement, sale or other handling or treatment of all or any part of such collateral, property or security;
     (ix) the fact that any collateral, security, security interest or lien contemplated or intended to be given, created or granted as security for the repayment of the Guaranteed Obligations shall not be properly perfected or created, or shall prove to be unenforceable or subordinate to any other security interest or lien, it being recognized and agreed by each Subsidiary Guarantor that such Subsidiary Guarantor is not entering into this Guaranty in reliance on, or in contemplation of the benefits of, the validity, enforceability, collectibility or value of any of the collateral;
 
     (x) any payment by the Company to any Holder being held to constitute a preference under any Fraudulent Conveyance Law, or for any reason any Holder being required to refund such payment or pay such amount to the Company or someone else;
     (xi) any other action taken or omitted to be taken with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations, or the security and collateral therefor, whether or not such action or omission prejudices such Subsidiary Guarantor or increases the likelihood that such Subsidiary Guarantor will be required to pay the Guaranteed Obligations pursuant to the terms hereof, it being the unambiguous and unequivocal intention of such Subsidiary Guarantor that it shall be obligated to pay the Guaranteed Obligations when due, notwithstanding any occurrence, circumstance, event, action or omission whatsoever, whether or not contemplated, and whether or not otherwise or particularly described herein, except for the full and final payment and satisfaction of the Guaranteed Obligations in cash;
     (xii) the fact that all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations cease to exist by operation of law, including by way of a discharge, limitation or tolling thereof under applicable bankruptcy laws with respect to the Company or any other Person;
     (xiii) any other circumstance that might in any manner or to any extent otherwise constitute a defense available to, vary the risk of, or operate as a discharge of, the Company or any other Person as a matter of law or equity;
     (xiv) any merger or consolidation of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor into or with any other Person or any sale, lease or transfer of any of the assets of the Company to any other Person;
     (xv) any change in the ownership of any shares of capital stock of the Company, or any change in the relationship between the Company and such Subsidiary Guarantor or any termination of any such relationship;
     (xvi) any default, failure or delay, willful or otherwise, in the performance by the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or any other Person of any obligations of any kind or character whatsoever under the Note Purchase Agreement or any other agreement;
     (xvii) in respect of the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or any other Person, any change of circumstances, whether or not foreseen or foreseeable, whether or not imputable to the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or any other Person, or other impossibility of performance through fire, explosion, accident, labor disturbance, floods, droughts, embargoes, wars (whether or not declared), civil commotion, acts of God or the public enemy, delays or failure of suppliers or carriers, inability to obtain materials, action of any Federal or state regulatory body or agency, change of law or any other causes affecting performance, or any other , whether or not beyond the control of the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or any other Person and whether or not of the kind hereinbefore specified; or
force majeure
 
     (xviii) any other occurrence, circumstance, or event whatsoever, whether similar or dissimilar to the foregoing, whether foreseen or unforeseen, and any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable defense or discharge of the liabilities of a guarantor or surety or which might otherwise limit recourse against such Subsidiary Guarantor;
that the specific enumeration of the above-mentioned acts, failures or omissions shall not be deemed to exclude any other acts, failures or omissions, though not specifically mentioned above, it being the purpose and intent of this Guaranty and the parties hereto that the obligations of each Subsidiary Guarantor shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be discharged, impaired or varied except by the payment and performance of all obligations of the Company under the Note Purchase Agreement and the Notes in accordance with their respective terms as each may be amended or modified from time to time. Without limiting the foregoing, it is understood that repeated and successive demands may be made and recoveries may be had hereunder as and when, from time to time, the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor shall default under or in respect of the terms of the Note Purchase Agreement and that notwithstanding recovery hereunder for or in respect of any given default or defaults by the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor under the Note Purchase Agreement, this Guaranty shall remain in full force and effect and shall apply to each and every subsequent default. All waivers herein contained shall be without prejudice to the Holders at their respective options to proceed against the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or other Person, whether by separate action or by joinder.
provided
     (d) Each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby consents and agrees that any Holder or Holders from time to time, with or without any further notice to or assent from any other Subsidiary Guarantor may, without in any manner affecting the liability of any Subsidiary Guarantor under this Guaranty, and upon such terms and conditions as any such Holder or Holders may deem advisable:
     (i) extend in whole or in part (by renewal or otherwise), modify, change, compromise, release or extend the duration of the time for the performance or payment of any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor or of any other Person secondarily or otherwise liable for any debt, liability or obligations of the Company on the Note Purchase Agreement or the Notes, or waive any Default or Event of Default with respect thereto, or waive, modify, amend or change any provision of any other agreement or waive this Guaranty; or
     (ii) sell, release, surrender, modify, impair, exchange or substitute any and all property, of any nature and from whomsoever received, held by, or for the benefit of, any such Holder as direct or indirect security for the payment or performance of any debt, liability or obligation of the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or of any other Person secondarily or otherwise liable for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company on the Note Purchase Agreement or the Notes; or
 
     (iii) settle, adjust or compromise any claim of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor against any other Person secondarily or otherwise liable for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company on the Note Purchase Agreement or the Notes; or
     (iv) purchase Additional Notes from time to time from the Company pursuant to the terms and provisions of the Note Purchase Agreement.
Each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby ratifies and confirms any such extension, renewal, change, sale, release, waiver, surrender, exchange, modification, amendment, impairment, substitution, settlement, adjustment, compromise or purchase of Additional Notes and that the same shall be binding upon it, and hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any and all defenses, counterclaims or offsets which it might or could have by reason thereof, it being understood that such Subsidiary Guarantor shall at all times be bound by this Guaranty and remain liable hereunder.
     (e) All rights of any Holder may be transferred or assigned at any time in accordance with the Note Purchase Agreement and shall be considered to be transferred or assigned at any time or from time to time upon the transfer of such Note in accordance with the Note Purchase Agreement without the consent of or notice to the Subsidiary Guarantors under this Guaranty.
     (f) No Holder shall be under any obligation: (i) to marshal any assets in favor of the Subsidiary Guarantors or in payment of any or all of the liabilities of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor under or in respect of the Notes or the obligations of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors under the Note Purchase Agreement or (ii) to pursue any other remedy that the Subsidiary Guarantors may or may not be able to pursue themselves and that may lighten the Subsidiary Guarantors' burden, any right to which each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby expressly waives.
Section 4.
Full Recourse Obligations; Pari Passu Ranking.
     Subject to the Maximum Guaranteed Amount specified above, the obligations of each Subsidiary Guarantor set forth herein constitute the full recourse obligations of such Subsidiary Guarantor enforceable against it to the full extent of all its assets and properties.
     The respective obligations under this Guaranty of the Subsidiary Guarantors are and at all times shall remain direct and unsecured obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors ranking with all other present and future unsecured Indebtedness (actual or contingent) of the Subsidiary Guarantors which is not expressed to be subordinate or junior in rank to any other unsecured Indebtedness of the Subsidiary Guarantors.
pari passu
Section 5.
Waiver.
     Each Subsidiary Guarantor unconditionally waives, to the extent permitted by applicable law:
     (a) notice of any of the matters referred to in Section 3;
 
     (b) notice to such Subsidiary Guarantor of the incurrence of any of the Guaranteed Obligations, notice to such Subsidiary Guarantor of any breach or default by the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor with respect to any of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other notice that may be required, by statute, rule of law or otherwise, to preserve any rights of any Holder against such Subsidiary Guarantor;
     (c) presentment to the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor or of payment from the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor with respect to any Note or other Guaranteed Obligation or protest for nonpayment or dishonor;
     (d) any right to the enforcement, assertion, exercise or exhaustion by any Holder of any right, power, privilege or remedy conferred in any Note, the Note Purchase Agreement or otherwise;
     (e) any requirement of diligence on the part of any Holder;
     (f) any requirement to mitigate the damages resulting from any default under the Notes or the Note Purchase Agreement;
     (g) any notice of any sale, transfer or other disposition of any right, title to or interest in any Note or other Guaranteed Obligation by any Holder, assignee or participant thereof, or in the Note Purchase Agreement;
     (h) any release of any Subsidiary Guarantor from its obligations hereunder resulting from any loss by it of its rights of subrogation hereunder; and
     (i) any other circumstance whatsoever which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge, release or defense of a guarantor or surety or which might otherwise limit recourse against such Subsidiary Guarantor.
Section 6.
Waiver of Subrogation.
     Notwithstanding any payment or payments made by any Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder, or any application by any Holder of any security or of any credits or claims, no Subsidiary Guarantor will assert or exercise any rights of any Holder or of such Subsidiary Guarantor against the Company to recover the amount of any payment made by such Subsidiary Guarantor to any Holder hereunder by way of any claim, remedy or subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution, indemnity, participation or otherwise arising by contract, by statute, under common law or otherwise, and such Subsidiary Guarantor shall not have any right of recourse to or any claim against assets or property of the Company, in each case unless and until the Guaranteed Obligations have been paid in full. Until such time (but not thereafter), each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby expressly waives any right to exercise any claim, right or remedy which such Subsidiary Guarantor may now have or hereafter acquire against the Company or any other Subsidiary Guarantor that arises under the Notes, the Note Purchase Agreement or from the performance by any Subsidiary Guarantor of the guaranty hereunder including any claim, remedy or right of subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution, indemnification
 
or participation in any claim, right or remedy of any Holder against the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor, or any security that any Holder now has or hereafter acquires, whether or not such claim, right or remedy arises in equity, under contract, by statute, under common law or otherwise. If any amount shall be paid to a Subsidiary Guarantor by the Company or another Subsidiary Guarantor after payment in full of the Guaranteed Obligations, and all or any portion of the Guaranteed Obligations shall thereafter be reinstated in whole or in part and any Holder is required to repay any sums received by any of them in payment of the Guaranteed Obligations, this Guaranty shall be automatically reinstated and such amount shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Holders and shall forthwith be paid to the Holders to be credited and applied to the Guaranteed Obligations, whether matured or unmatured. The provisions of this paragraph shall survive the termination of this Guaranty, and any satisfaction and discharge of the Company by virtue of any payment, court order or any Federal or state law.
Section 7.
Subordination.
     If any Subsidiary Guarantor is or becomes the holder of any indebtedness payable by the Company or another Subsidiary Guarantor, each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby subordinates all such indebtedness owing to it from the Company or such other Subsidiary Guarantor to all indebtedness of the Company to the Holders, and agrees that, during the continuance of any Event of Default, it shall not accept any payment on the same until payment in full of the Guaranteed Obligations and shall in no circumstance whatsoever attempt to set-off or reduce any obligations hereunder because of such indebtedness. If any amount shall nevertheless be paid in violation of the foregoing to a Subsidiary Guarantor by the Company or another Subsidiary Guarantor prior to payment in full of the Guaranteed Obligations, such amount shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Holders and shall forthwith be paid to the Holders to be credited and applied to the Guaranteed Obligations, whether matured or unmatured.
Section 8.
Effect of Bankruptcy Proceedings, Etc.
     (a) If after receipt of any payment of, or proceeds of any security applied (or intended to be applied) to the payment of all or any part of, the Guaranteed Obligations, any Holder is for any reason compelled to surrender or voluntarily surrenders (under circumstances in which it believes it could reasonably be expected to be so compelled if it did not voluntarily surrender), such payment or proceeds to any Person (i) because such payment or application of proceeds is or may be avoided, invalidated, declared fraudulent, set aside, determined to be void or voidable as a preference, fraudulent conveyance, fraudulent transfer, impermissible set-off or a diversion of trust funds or (ii) for any other similar reason, including, without limitation, (x) any judgment, decree or order of any court or administrative body having jurisdiction over any Holder or any of their respective properties or (y) any settlement or compromise of any such claim effected by any Holder with any such claimant (including the Company), then the Guaranteed Obligations or part thereof intended to be satisfied shall be reinstated and continue, and this Guaranty shall continue in full force as if such payment or proceeds had not been received, notwithstanding any revocation thereof or the cancellation of any Note or any other instrument evidencing any Guaranteed Obligations or otherwise, and the Subsidiary Guarantors, jointly and severally, shall be liable to pay the Holders, and hereby do indemnify the Holders and hold them harmless for, the amount of such payment or proceeds so surrendered and all expenses (including reasonable
 
attorneys' fees, court costs and expenses attributable thereto) incurred by any Holder in defense of any claim made against any of them that any payment or proceeds received by any Holder in respect of all or part of the Guaranteed Obligations must be surrendered. The provisions of this paragraph shall survive the termination of this Guaranty, and any satisfaction and discharge of the Company by virtue of any payment, court order or any Federal or state law.
     (b) If an event permitting the acceleration of the maturity of any of the Guaranteed Obligations shall at any time have occurred and be continuing, and such acceleration shall at such time be prevented by reason of the pendency against the Company or any other Person of any case or proceeding contemplated by Section 8(a) hereof, then, for the purpose of defining the obligation of any Subsidiary Guarantor under this Guaranty, the maturity of the principal amount of the Guaranteed Obligations shall be deemed to have been accelerated with the same effect as if an acceleration had occurred in accordance with the terms of such Guaranteed Obligations, and such Subsidiary Guarantor shall forthwith pay such principal amount, all accrued and unpaid interest thereon, and all other Guaranteed Obligations, due or that would have become due but for such case or proceeding, without further notice or demand.
Section 9.
Term of Guaranty.
     This Guaranty and all guarantees, covenants and agreements of each Subsidiary Guarantor contained herein shall continue in full force and effect and shall not be discharged until such time as all of the principal of and interest on the Notes, the other Guaranteed Obligations and other independent payment obligations of such Subsidiary Guarantor under this Guaranty shall be paid in cash and performed in full, and all of the agreements of each of the other Subsidiary Guarantors hereunder shall be duly paid in cash and performed in full.
Section 10.
Contribution.
     In order to provide for just and equitable contribution among the Subsidiary Guarantors, each Subsidiary Guarantor agrees that, to the extent any Subsidiary Guarantor makes any payment hereunder on any date which, when added to all preceding payments made by such Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder, would result in the aggregate payments by such Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder exceeding its Percentage (as defined below) of all payments then or theretofore made by all Subsidiary Guarantors hereunder, such Subsidiary Guarantor shall have a right of contribution against each other Subsidiary Guarantor whose aggregate payments then or theretofore made hereunder are less than its Percentage of all payments by all Subsidiary Guarantors then or theretofore made hereunder, in an amount such that, after giving effect to any such contribution rights, each Subsidiary Guarantor will have paid only its Percentage of all payments by all Subsidiary Guarantors then or theretofore made hereunder. A Subsidiary Guarantor's "Percentage" on any date shall mean the percentage obtained by dividing (a) the Adjusted Net Assets of such Subsidiary Guarantor on such date by (b) the sum of the Adjusted Net Assets of all Subsidiary Guarantors on such date. means, for each Subsidiary Guarantor on any date, the lesser of (i) the amount by which the fair value of the property of such Subsidiary Guarantor exceeds the total amount of liabilities, including contingent liabilities, but excluding liabilities under this Guaranty, of such Subsidiary Guarantor on such date and (ii) the amount by which the present fair salable value of the assets of such
"Adjusted Net Assets"
 
Subsidiary Guarantor on such date exceeds the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of such Subsidiary Guarantor on its debts, excluding debt in respect of this Guaranty, as they become absolute and matured.
Section 11.
Limitation of Liability.
     Each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby confirms that it is the intention of such Subsidiary Guarantor that the guarantee by such Subsidiary Guarantor pursuant to this Guaranty not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of Title 11 of the United States Code, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar applicable Federal or state law (all such statutes and laws are collectively referred to as ). To effectuate the foregoing intention, each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby irrevocably agrees that the obligations of such Subsidiary Guarantor under this Guaranty shall be limited to the amount as will, after giving effect to all rights to receive any collections from or payments by or on behalf of any other Subsidiary Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Subsidiary Guarantor pursuant to Section 10 hereof, result in the obligations of such Subsidiary Guarantor under this Guaranty not constituting such a fraudulent transfer or conveyance. In the event that the liability of any Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder is limited pursuant to this Section 11 to an amount that is less than the total amount of the Guaranteed Obligations, then it is understood and agreed that the portion of the Guaranteed Obligations for which such Subsidiary Guarantor is liable hereunder shall be the last portion of the Guaranteed Obligations to be repaid.
"Fraudulent Conveyance Laws"
     
Section 12.
Reserved.
     [Reserved.]
Section 13.
Supplemental Agreement.
     Upon execution and delivery by a Subsidiary of a Supplemental Agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, such Subsidiary shall become a Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder with the same force and effect as if originally named as a Subsidiary Guarantor herein. The execution and delivery of any such instrument shall not require the consent of any other Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder. The rights and obligations of each Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the addition of any new Subsidiary Guarantor as a party to this Guaranty.
Section 14.
Definitions and Terms Generally.
     (a) Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms defined in the Note Purchase Agreement are used herein as defined therein. In addition, the following terms shall have the following meanings.
     has the meaning specified in Section 10 hereof.
"Adjusted Net Assets"
 
     has the meaning specified in Section 11 hereof.
"Fraudulent Conveyance Laws"
     has the meaning specified in Section 1 hereof.
"Guaranteed Obligations"
     has the meaning specified in the introduction hereto.
"Guaranty"
     has the meaning specified in the introduction hereto.
"Holders"
     means a material adverse effect (a) on the business, financial condition, operations or Properties of a Subsidiary Guarantor taken as a whole or (b) on its ability to perform its obligations hereunder.
"Material Adverse Effect"
     shall mean, for each Subsidiary Guarantor, the maximum amount which any Subsidiary Guarantor could pay under this Guaranty without having such payment set aside as a fraudulent transfer or conveyance or similar action under Fraudulent Conveyance Law.
"Maximum Guaranteed Amount"
     has the meaning specified in the Recitals hereto.
"Note Purchase Agreement"
     has the meaning specified in the Recitals hereto.
"Notes"
     has the meaning specified in Section 10 hereof.
"Percentage"
     has the meaning specified in the introduction hereto.
"Subsidiary Guarantor"
     (b) Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." All references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be deemed references to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Guaranty unless the context shall otherwise require.
Section 15.
Notices.
     All notices under the terms and provisions hereof shall be in writing (with charges prepaid), and shall be delivered or sent by hand, by telecopy, by express courier service or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed,
     (a) if to any Holder, at the address set forth in the Note Purchase Agreement, or at such other address as any such Holder shall from time to time designate to the Company,
     (b) if to a Subsidiary Guarantor, at the address of such Subsidiary Guarantor set forth on the signature pages hereto or at such other address as such Subsidiary Guarantor shall from time to time designate in writing to each Holder.
A notice or communication shall be deemed to have been duly given and effective:
 
Section 16.
Amendments, Etc.
     No amendment, alteration, modification or waiver of any term or provision of this Guaranty, nor consent to any departure by any Subsidiary Guarantor therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and consented to by the Required Holders , , that any amendment, alteration, modification or waiver of the terms and conditions contained in Section 1 hereof shall require consent from all Holders, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given.
provided
however
Section 17.
Consent to Jurisdiction; Service of Process.
     (a) Each Subsidiary Guarantor irrevocably submits to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any Illinois State or federal court sitting in Cook County, Chicago, Illinois, over any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Guaranty or the Notes. To the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, each Subsidiary Guarantor irrevocably waives and agrees not to assert, by way of motion, as a defense or otherwise, any claim that it is not subject to the jurisdiction of any such court, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court and any claim that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
in personam
in personam
     (b) Each Subsidiary Guarantor agrees, to the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that a final judgment in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 17 brought in any such court shall be conclusive and binding upon such party, subject to rights of appeal and may be enforced in the courts of the United States of America or the State of Illinois (or any other courts to the jurisdiction of which such party is or may be subject) by a suit upon such judgment.
     (c) Each Subsidiary Guarantor consents to process being served in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 17 by mailing a copy thereof by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the address of each Subsidiary Guarantor specified in Section 15 or at such other address of which you shall then
 
have been notified pursuant to said Section. Each Subsidiary Guarantor agrees that such service upon receipt (i) shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process upon it in any such suit, action or proceeding and (ii) shall, to the full extent permitted by applicable law, be taken and held to be valid personal service upon and personal delivery to such party. Notices hereunder shall be conclusively presumed received as evidenced by a delivery receipt furnished by the United States Postal Service or any reputable commercial delivery service.
     (d) Nothing in this Section 17 shall affect the right of any holder of Notes to serve process in any manner permitted by law, or limit any right that the holders of any of the Notes may have to bring proceedings against any Subsidiary Guarantor in the courts of any appropriate jurisdiction or to enforce in any lawful manner a judgment obtained in one jurisdiction in any other jurisdiction.
Section 18.
Waiver of Jury Trial.
     
Each Subsidiary Guarantor and by its acceptance hereof each Holder, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, irrevocably and unconditionally waives the right to trial by jury in any legal or equitable action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Guaranty or the Note Purchase Agreement or any transaction contemplated hereby or thereby or the subject matter of any of the foregoing.
Section 19.
Survival.
     All warranties, representations and covenants made by each Subsidiary Guarantor herein or in any written certificate or other instrument required to be delivered by it or on its behalf hereunder or under the Note Purchase Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the Holders and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Guaranty, regardless of any investigation made by any Holder or on such Holder's behalf. All statements in any such certificate or other instrument shall constitute warranties and representations by such Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder.
Section 20.
Severability.
     Any provision of this Guaranty which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction. To the extent permitted by applicable law, each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby waives any provision of law that renders any provisions hereof prohibited or unenforceable in any respect.
 
Section 21.
Successors and Assigns.
     The terms of this Guaranty shall be binding upon each Subsidiary Guarantor and its successors and permitted assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the Holders and their respective successors and assigns permitted by the Note Purchase Agreement.
Section 22.
Table of Contents; Headings.
     The section and paragraph headings in this Guaranty and the table of contents are for convenience of reference only and shall not modify, define, expand or limit any of the terms or provisions hereof, and all references herein to numbered sections, unless otherwise indicated, are to sections in this Guaranty.
Section 23.
Counterparts.
     This Guaranty may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one instrument.
Section 24.
Governing Law.
     This Guaranty shall in all respects be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the State of Illinois, without regard to the conflicts of laws principles of such state.
Section 25.
Release.
     Notwithstanding any other provision hereof to the contrary, including without limitation Section 3(c)(v), 3(c)(xiv) and 3(c)(xv), a Subsidiary Guarantor shall be automatically released from its guaranty hereunder upon (a) the sale or exchange of all or substantially all of the stock or the assets of such Subsidiary Guarantor permitted pursuant to Section 10.5 of the Note Purchase Agreement and (b) the occurrence of a Collateral Release.
Section 26.
Covenant Compliance.
     Each Subsidiary Guarantor agrees to comply with each of the covenants contained herein and in the Note Purchase Agreement that imposes or purports to impose, by reference to such Subsidiary Guarantor, express or otherwise, through agreements with the Company, restrictions or obligations on such Subsidiary Guarantor.
 
     each party hereto has caused this Guaranty to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
In Witness Whereof,
 
      dated as of ____________, ____ from ______________, a _______ corporation (the ), for the benefit of the Holders (as defined in the Guaranty referred to below). Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the respective meanings ascribed thereto in the Subsidiary Guaranty Agreement, dated as of August 18, 2011 (the ), from each of: [names of guarantors] and such other Subsidiaries (as defined below) as shall become parties thereto in accordance therewith, for the benefit of the Holders (as such term is defined in such Guaranty).
Supplemental Agreement
"New Subsidiary"
"Guaranty"
     , Molex Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the ) will authorize the issue and sale of (i) $50,000,000 2.91% Series 2011A Senior Notes, Tranche A, due August 18, 2016 (the ), (ii) $50,000,000 3.59% Series 2011A Senior Notes, Tranche B, due August 18, 2018 (the ) and (iii) $50,000,000 4.28% Series 2011A Senior Notes, Tranche C, due August 18, 2021 (the and, together with the Tranche A Notes and the Trance C Notes, the ), pursuant to a Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of the date hereof (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the ) among the Company and the purchasers named therein.
Whereas
"Company"
"Tranche A Notes"
"Tranche B Notes"
"Tranche C Notes"
"Series 2011A Notes"
"Note Purchase Agreement"
     , the Company is authorized to issue Additional Notes (as such term is defined in the Note Purchase Agreement) of one or more separate series from time to time in an aggregate principal amount of Additional Notes of all series not to exceed $600,000,000 pursuant to Section 2.2 of the Note Purchase Agreement.
Whereas
     the Additional Notes together with the Series 2011A Notes are collectively referred to as the .
Whereas,
"Notes"
     , the New Subsidiary is a Subsidiary of the Company.
Whereas
      certain of the existing Subsidiaries of the Company have entered into the Guaranty.
Whereas,
     , the Note Purchase Agreement requires that certain Subsidiaries become party to the Guaranty (as a Subsidiary Guarantor).
Whereas
     , the New Subsidiary acknowledges that it will derive substantial benefits from the issuance of the Notes.
Whereas
     , the Guaranty specifies that additional Subsidiaries may become Subsidiary Guarantors under such Guaranty by execution and delivery of an instrument in the form of this Agreement. The undersigned Subsidiary is executing this Agreement in accordance with the requirements of the Note Purchase Agreement in order to become a Subsidiary Guarantor under the Guaranty as consideration for the Notes previously purchased.
Whereas
 
     , the New Subsidiary Guarantor agrees as follows:
Now, Therefore
     . In accordance with Section 13 of the Guaranty, the New Subsidiary by its signature hereto shall become a Subsidiary Guarantor under such Guaranty with the same force and effect as if originally named therein as a Subsidiary Guarantor and the New Subsidiary hereby (a) agrees to all the terms and provisions of such Guaranty applicable to it as a Subsidiary Guarantor thereunder, (b) represents and warrants that the representations and warranties made by it as a Subsidiary Guarantor are true and correct on and as of the date hereof with the same effect as though made on and as of the date hereof, (c) acknowledges receipt of a copy of and agrees to be obligated and bound by the terms of such Guaranty, and (d) agrees that each reference to a in such Guaranty shall be deemed to include the New Subsidiary.
Section 1. Guaranty
"Subsidiary Guarantor"
     . The New Subsidiary hereby represents and warrants that this Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the New Subsidiary and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the New Subsidiary enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the applicability of creditors' rights generally and by equitable principles of general applicability (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Section 2. Enforceability
     . Except as expressly supplemented hereby, the Guaranty shall continue in full force and effect.
Section 3. Effect on Guaranty
     . .
Section 4.
Governing Law
This Agreement shall in all respects be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the State of Illinois, without regard to the conflicts of laws principles of such state
     . To the fullest extent permitted under applicable law, in the event any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect with respect to the New Subsidiary, no party hereto shall be required to comply with such provision for so long as such provision is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, and the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not in any way be affected or impaired. The parties shall endeavor in good-faith negotiations to replace any invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions, the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions.
Section 5. Savings Clause
     . All communications to the New Subsidiary shall be given to it at the address or telecopy number set forth under its signature hereto.
Section 6. Notices
 
     , the New Subsidiary has duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
In Witness Whereof
 
     The closing opinion of Mark R. Pacioni, Esq., Corporate Secretary of the Company, which is called for by Section 4.4 of the Note Purchase Agreement, shall be dated the date of Closing and addressed to the Purchasers, shall be satisfactory in scope and form to each Purchaser and shall be to the effect that:
     1. The Company is a corporation, duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation and has the corporate power and authority to execute and perform the Note Purchase Agreement and to issue the Notes.
     2. The Company has the full corporate power and the corporate authority to conduct the activities in which it is now engaged and is duly licensed or qualified and is in good standing as a foreign corporation in each jurisdiction in which the character of the properties owned or leased by it or the nature of the business transacted by it makes such licensing or qualification necessary except in jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified or licensed would not have a material adverse effect on the business of the Company.
     3. The Note Purchase Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company and has been duly executed and delivered by the Company.
     4. The Series 2011A Notes have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company and have been duly executed and delivered by the Company.
     5. The Subsidiary Guaranty has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action on the part of each Subsidiary Guarantor (other than Woodhead L.P., a Texas limited partnership ()), and has been duly executed and delivered by each Subsidiary Guarantor other than LP.
"LP"
     6. Each Subsidiary Guarantor (other than LP) is a corporation or similar legal entity, duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, and is duly licensed or qualified and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the character of the properties owned or leased by it or the nature of the business transacted by it makes such licensing or qualification necessary except in jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified or licensed would not have a material adverse effect on the business of such Subsidiary.
     7. No approval, consent or withholding of objection on the part of, or filing, registration or qualification with, any governmental body, Federal or state, is necessary in connection with the execution and delivery of the Note Purchase Agreement, the Series 2011A Notes or the Subsidiary Guaranty.
     8. The issuance and sale of the Series 2011A Notes, the execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Note Purchase Agreement, and the execution, delivery and performance by each Subsidiary Guarantor of the Subsidiary Guaranty do not conflict with or
 
result in any breach of any of the provisions of or constitute a default under or to the best of my knowledge result in the creation or imposition of any Lien upon any property of the Company or any such Subsidiary Guarantor pursuant to the provisions of the Articles or Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws, or such similar organizational or governing instrument, as the case may be, of the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor or any agreement or other instrument known to such counsel to which the Company or any such Subsidiary Guarantor is a party or by which the Company or any such Subsidiary Guarantor may be bound.
     9. To the knowledge of such counsel after due inquiry, there are no actions, suits or proceedings pending or threatened against or affecting the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor in any court or before any governmental authority or arbitration board or tribunal which, if adversely determined, would have a materially adverse effect on the properties, business, profits or condition, (financial or otherwise) of the Company and its Subsidiaries or the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under the Note Purchase Agreement and the Series 2011A Notes or on the legality, validity or enforceability of the Company's obligations under the Note Purchase Agreement and the Series 2011A Notes.
     The opinion of Mark R. Pacioni, Esq., shall cover such other matters relating to the sale of the Notes as each Purchaser may reasonably request and successors and assigns of the Purchasers shall be entitled to rely on such opinion. With respect to matters of fact on which such opinion is based, such counsel shall be entitled to rely on appropriate certificates of public officials and other officers of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
 
     The closing opinion of Mayer Brown, LLP, special counsel to the Company, which is called for by Section 4.4 of the Note Purchase Agreement, shall be dated the date of Closing and addressed to the Purchasers, shall be satisfactory in scope and form to each Purchaser and shall be to the effect that:
     1. The Subsidiary Guaranty has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action on the part of Woodhead L.P., a Texas limited partnership (), and has been duly executed and delivered by LP.
"LP"
     2. LP is a limited partnership, duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, and is duly licensed or qualified and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the character of the properties owned or leased by it or the nature of the business transacted by it makes such licensing or qualification necessary except in jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified or licensed would not have a material adverse effect on the business of LP. All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock or similar equity interests of LP have been duly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and are owned by the Company, by one or more Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more Subsidiaries.
     3. The Note Purchase Agreement constitutes the legal, valid and binding contract of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance and similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, and general principles of equity (regardless of whether the application of such principles is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
     4. The Series 2011A Notes constitute the legal, valid and binding contract of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance and similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, and general principles of equity (regardless of whether the application of such principles is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
     5. The Subsidiary Guaranty constitutes the legal, valid and binding contract of each Subsidiary Guarantor enforceable against such Subsidiary Guarantor in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance and similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, and general principles of equity (regardless of whether the application of such principles is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
     6. The issuance and sale of the Series 2011A Notes, the execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Note Purchase Agreement, and the execution, delivery and performance by each Subsidiary Guarantor of the Subsidiary Guaranty do not violate any provision of any law or other rule or regulation of any Governmental Authority applicable to the Company or any such Subsidiary Guarantor.
 
     7. The issuance, sale and delivery of the Series 2011A Notes and the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Guaranty by the Subsidiary Guarantors under the circumstances contemplated by the Note Purchase Agreement and the Subsidiary Guaranty do not, under existing law, require the registration of the Series 2011A Notes or the Subsidiary Guaranty under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the qualification of an indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
     8. Neither the issuance of the Series 2011A Notes nor the application of the proceeds of the sale of the Series 2011A Notes will violate or result in a violation of Section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any regulation issued pursuant thereto, including, without limitation, Regulation T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
     9. The Company is not an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company," within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
     The opinion of Mayer Brown, LLP, shall cover such other matters relating to the sale of the Notes as each Purchaser may reasonably request and successors and assigns of the Purchasers shall be entitled to rely on such opinion. With respect to matters of fact on which such opinion is based, such counsel shall be entitled to rely on appropriate certificates of public officials and other officers of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
 
     The closing opinion of Chapman and Cutler LLP, special counsel to the Purchasers, called for by Section 4.4 of the Note Purchase Agreement, shall be dated the date of Closing and addressed to each Purchaser, shall be satisfactory in form and substance to each Purchaser and shall be to the effect that:
     1. The Note Purchase Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company, has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes the legal, valid and binding contract of the Company enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance and similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, and general principles of equity (regardless of whether the application of such principles is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
     2. The Series 2011A Notes have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company, and the Notes being delivered on the date hereof have been duly executed and delivered by the Company and constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance and similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, and general principles of equity (regardless of whether the application of such principles is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
     3. The issuance, sale and delivery of the Series 2011A Notes and the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Guaranty under the circumstances contemplated by the Note Purchase Agreement and the Subsidiary Guaranty do not, under existing law, require the registration of the Series 2011A Notes or the Subsidiary Guaranty under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the qualification of an indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
     With respect to matters of fact upon which such opinion is based, Chapman and Cutler LLP may rely on appropriate certificates of public officials and officers of the Company and upon representations of the Company and the Purchasers delivered in connection with the issuance and sale of the Series 2011A Notes.
     The opinion of Chapman and Cutler LLP is limited to the laws of the State of Illinois and the Federal laws of the United States.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated as of ____________________, 20__
To the Purchaser(s) named in Schedule A hereto
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     This [Number] Supplement to Note Purchase Agreement (the ) is between , a Delaware corporation (the ), and the institutional investors named on Schedule A attached hereto (the ).
"Supplement"
Molex Incorporated
"Company"
"Purchasers"
     Reference is hereby made to that certain Note Purchase Agreement dated as of August 18, 2011 (the ) between the Company and the purchasers listed on Schedule A thereto. All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the same meaning as specified in the Note Purchase Agreement. Reference is further made to Section 4.14 of the Note Purchase Agreement which requires that, prior to the delivery of any Additional Notes, the Company and each Additional Purchaser shall execute and deliver a Supplement.
"Note Purchase Agreement"
     The Company hereby agrees with the Purchaser(s) as follows:
     1. The Company has authorized the issue and sale of $__________ aggregate principal amount of its _____% Series ______ Senior Notes due _________, ____ (the ______ ). The Series ____ Notes, together with the Series 2011A Notes [and the Series ____ Notes] initially issued pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement and the _________ Supplementand each series of Additional Notes which may from time to time hereafter be issued pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.2 of the Note Purchase Agreement, are collectively referred to as the "Notes(such term shall also include any such notes issued in substitution therefor pursuant to Section 13 of the Note Purchase Agreement). The Series _____ Notes shall be substantially in the form set out in Exhibit 1 hereto with such changes therefrom, if any, as may be approved by the Purchaser(s) and the Company.
"Series
Notes"
[
]
"
     2. Subject to the terms and conditions hereof and as set forth in the Note Purchase Agreement and on the basis of the representations and warranties hereinafter set forth, the Company agrees to issue and sell to each Purchaser, and each Purchaser agrees to purchase from the Company, Series _____ Notes in the principal amount set forth opposite such Purchaser's name on Schedule A hereto at a price of 100% of the principal amount thereof on the closing date hereinafter mentioned.
 
     3. The sale and purchase of the Series ______ Notes to be purchased by each Purchaser shall occur at the offices of [______________________] at 10:00 Chicago time, at a closing (the ) on ______, ____ or on such other Business Day thereafter on or prior to _______, ____ as may be agreed upon by the Company and the Purchasers. At the Closing, the Company will deliver to each Purchaser the Series ______ Notes to be purchased by such Purchaser in the form of a single Series ______ Note (or such greater number of Series ______ Notes in denominations of at least $100,000 as such Purchaser may request) dated the date of the Closing and registered in such Purchaser's name (or in the name of such Purchaser's nominee), against delivery by such Purchaser to the Company or its order of immediately available funds in the amount of the purchase price therefor by wire transfer of immediately available funds for the account of the Company to account number [__________________________] at ____________ Bank, []. If, at the Closing, the Company shall fail to tender such Series ______ Notes to any Purchaser as provided above in this Section 3, or any of the conditions specified in Section 4 shall not have been fulfilled to any Purchaser's satisfaction, such Purchaser shall, at such Purchaser's election, be relieved of all further obligations under this Agreement, without thereby waiving any rights such Purchaser may have by reason of such failure or such nonfulfillment.
a.m.
"Closing"
Insert Bank address, ABA number for wire transfers, and any other relevant wire transfer information
     4. The obligation of each Purchaser to purchase and pay for the Series ______ Notes to be sold to such Purchaser at the Closing is subject to the fulfillment to such Purchaser's satisfaction, prior to the Closing, of the conditions set forth in Section 4 of the Note Purchase Agreement with respect to the Series ______ Notes to be purchased at the Closing, and to the following additional conditions:
     (a) Except as supplemented, amended or superceded by the representations and warranties set forth in Exhibit A hereto, each of the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in Section 5 of the Note Purchase Agreement shall be correct as of the date of Closing and the Company shall have delivered to each Purchaser an Officer's Certificate, dated the date of the Closing certifying that such condition has been fulfilled.
     (b) Contemporaneously with the Closing, the Company shall sell to each Purchaser, and each Purchaser shall purchase, the Series ______ Notes to be purchased by such Purchaser at the Closing as specified in Schedule A.
     5. [Here insert special provisions for Series ______ Notes including prepayment provisions applicable to Series ______ Notes (including Make-Whole Amount) and closing conditions applicable to Series ______ Notes].
     6. Each Purchaser represents and warrants that the representations and warranties set forth in Section 6 of the Note Purchase Agreement are true and correct on the date hereof with respect to the purchase of the Series ______ Notes by such Purchaser.
     7. The Company and each Purchaser agree to be bound by and comply with the terms and provisions of the Note Purchase Agreement as fully and completely as if such Purchaser were an original signatory to the Note Purchase Agreement.
 
     The execution hereof shall constitute a contract between the Company and the Purchaser(s) for the uses and purposes hereinabove set forth, and this agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each executed counterpart constituting an original but all together only one agreement.
Accepted as of __________, _____
 
 
     The Company represents and warrants to each Purchaser that except as hereinafter set forth in this Exhibit A, each of the representations and warranties set forth in Section 5 of the Note Purchase Agreement is true and correct in all material respects as of the date hereof with respect to the Series ______ Notes with the same force and effect as if each reference to "Series 2011A Notes" set forth therein was modified to refer the "Series ______ Notes" and each reference to "this Agreement" therein was modified to refer to the Note Purchase Agreement as supplemented by the _______ Supplement. The Section references hereinafter set forth correspond to the similar sections of the Note Purchase Agreement which are supplemented hereby:
     . The Company, through its agent, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated has delivered to each Purchaser a copy of a Private Placement Memorandum, dated ____________ (the ), relating to the transactions contemplated by the ______ Supplement. The Memorandum fairly describes, in all material respects, the general nature of the business and principal properties of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries. The Note Purchase Agreement, the Memorandum, the documents, certificates or other writings delivered to each Purchaser by or on behalf of the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Note Purchase Agreement and the _______ Supplement and the financial statements listed in Schedule 5.5 to the _____ Supplement, taken as a whole, do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in light of the circumstances under which they were made. Since ____________, there has been no change in the financial condition, operations, business, properties or prospects of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary except changes that individually or in the aggregate would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. There is no fact known to the Company that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect that has not been set forth herein or in the Memorandum or in the other documents, certificates and other writings delivered to each Purchaser by or on behalf of the Company specifically for use in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
Section 5.3. Disclosure
"Memorandum"
     . (a) Schedule 5.4 to the ______ Supplement contains (except as noted therein) complete and correct list of the Company's Restricted and Unrestricted Subsidiaries, and showing, as to each Subsidiary, the correct name thereof and the jurisdiction of its organization.
Section 5.4. Organization and Ownership of Shares of Subsidiaries
     . Neither the Company nor anyone acting on its behalf has offered the Series __ Notes or any similar securities for sale to, or solicited any offer to buy any of the same from, or otherwise approached or negotiated in respect thereof with, any Person other than the Purchasers and not more than [______] other Institutional Investors, each of which has been offered the Series ______ Notes at a private sale for investment. Neither the Company nor anyone acting on its behalf has taken, or will take, any action that would subject the issuance or sale of the Notes to the registration requirements of Section 5 of the Securities Act or to the registration requirements of any securities or blue sky laws of any applicable jurisdiction.
Section 5.13. Private Offering by the Company
 
     . The Company will apply the proceeds of the sale of the Series ______ Notes to ____________________ and for general corporate purposes. No part of the proceeds of the sale of the Series _______ Notes shall be used directly or indirectly to (i) finance or refinance dealings or transactions with any Person described or designated in the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Person List (the ) of the Office of Foreign Asset Control or in Section 1 of the Anti-Terrorism Order or (ii) for any purpose that is otherwise in violation of any applicable Anti-Money Laundering Laws or applicable Anti-Corruption Laws.
Section 5.14. Use of Proceeds; Margin Regulations
"SDN List"
     (b) No part of the proceeds from the sale of the Series ______ Notes pursuant to the _____ Supplement will be used, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of buying or carrying any margin stock within the meaning of Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 221), or for the purpose of buying or carrying or trading in any securities under such circumstances as to involve the Company in a violation of Regulation X of said Board (12 CFR 224) or to involve any broker or dealer in a violation of Regulation T of said Board (12 CFR 220). Margin stock does not constitute more than 10% of the value of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries and the Company does not have any present intention that margin stock will constitute more than 10% of the value of such assets. As used in this Section, the terms and shall have the meanings assigned to them in said Regulation U.
"margin stock"
"purpose of buying or carrying"
     . (a) Schedule 5.15 to the _________ Supplement sets forth a complete and correct list of all outstanding Indebtedness of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries as of _____________ (including a description of the obligors and obliges, principal amount outstanding and collateral therefor, if any, and Guarantee thereof, if any), since which date there has been no Material change in the amounts, interest rates, sinking funds, installment payments or maturities of the Indebtedness of the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries. Neither the Company nor any Restricted Subsidiary is in default and no waiver of default is currently in effect, in the payment of any principal or interest on any Indebtedness of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary and no event or condition exists with respect to any Indebtedness of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary the outstanding principal amount of which exceeds $25,000,000 that would permit (or that with notice or the lapse of time, or both, would permit) one or more Persons to cause such Indebtedness to become due and payable before its stated maturity or before its regularly scheduled dates of payment.
Section 5.15. Existing Indebtedness; Future Liens
[Add any additional Sections as appropriate at the time the Series ______ Notes are issued]
 
     , the undersigned, Molex Incorporateda Delaware corporation (herein called the ), a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of ____________, hereby promises to pay to [________________], or registered assigns, the principal sum of [________________] (or so much thereof as shall not have been prepaid) on _______________, with interest (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) (a) on the unpaid balance hereof at the rate of ____% per annum from the date hereof, payable semiannually, on the _____ day of ______ and ______ in each year, commencing on the first of such dates after the date hereof, until the principal hereof shall have become due and payable, and (b) to the extent permitted by law, at a rate per annum from time to time equal to [2% above the stated rate], on any overdue payment of interest and, during the continuance of an Event of Default, on the unpaid balance hereof and on any overdue payment of any Make-Whole Amount, payable [semiannually] as aforesaid (or, at the option of the registered holder hereof, on demand).
For Value Received
,
"Company"
Dollars
     Payments of principal of, interest on and any Make-Whole Amount with respect to this Note are to be made in lawful money of the United States of America at ______________________, in ______________________, or at such other place as the Company shall have designated by written notice to the holder of this Note as provided in the Note Purchase Agreement referred to below.
     This Note is one of a series of Senior Notes (the ) issued pursuant to a Supplement to the Note Purchase Agreement dated as of August 18, 2011 (as from time to time amended, supplemented or modified, the ), between the Company, the Purchasers named therein and Additional Purchasers of Notes from time to time issued pursuant to any Supplement to the Note Purchase Agreement. This Note and the holder hereof are entitled equally and ratably with the holders of all other Notes of all series from time to time outstanding under the Note Purchase Agreement to all the benefits provided for thereby or referred to therein. Each holder of this Note will be deemed, by its acceptance hereof, to have (i) agreed to the confidentiality provisions set forth in Section 20 of the Note Purchase Agreement and (ii) made the representations set forth in Sections 6.2 and 6.3 of the Note Purchase Agreement, that such holder may (in reliance upon information provided by the Company, which shall not be unreasonably withheld) make a representation to the effect that the purchase by such holder of any Note will not constitute a non-exempt prohibited transaction
"Notes"
"Note Purchase Agreement"
provided
 
under Section 406(a) of ERISA. Unless otherwise indicated, capitalized terms used in this Note shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Note Purchase Agreement.
     This Note is registered with the Company and, as provided in the Note Purchase Agreement, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer, duly endorsed, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer duly executed, by the registered holder hereof or such holder's attorney duly authorized in writing, a new Note of the same series for a like principal amount will be issued to, and registered in the name of, the transferee. Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer, the Company may treat the person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for the purpose of receiving payment and for all other purposes, and the Company will not be affected by any notice to the contrary.
     [The Company will make required prepayments of principal on the dates and in the amounts specified in the Note Purchase Agreement.] [This Note is not subject to regularly scheduled prepayments of principal.] This Note is [also] subject to optional prepayment, in whole or from time to time in part, at the times and on the terms specified in the Note Purchase Agreement, but not otherwise.
     Pursuant to the Subsidiary Guaranty Agreement dated as of August 18, 2011 (as amended or modified from time to time, the ), certain Subsidiaries of the Company have absolutely and unconditionally guaranteed payment in full of the principal of, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and interest on this Note and the performance by the Company of its obligations contained in the Note Purchase Agreement all as more fully set forth in said Subsidiary Guaranty.
"Subsidiary Guaranty"
     If an Event of Default, as defined in the Note Purchase Agreement, occurs and is continuing, the principal of this Note may be declared or otherwise become due and payable in the manner, at the price (including any applicable Make-Whole Amount) and with the effect provided in the Note Purchase Agreement.
     This Note shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and the rights of the parties shall be governed by, the law of the State of Illinois excluding choice-of-law principles of the law of such State that would require the application of the laws of a jurisdiction other than such State.


