FILE:MOLX/MOLX-8K-20120227165055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) James E. Fleischhacker, Executive Vice President and President of Molex Incorporated's ("") Commercial Products Division, and Molex have agreed that Mr. Fleischhacker will step down from that position effective June 30, 2012. Effective July 1, 2012, Mr. Fleischhacker will be appointed as Executive Vice President, Technology & Innovation, reporting to the Chief Operating Officer of Molex. Mr. Fleischhacker will remain in this position as an executive officer of Molex and a member of the Global Leadership Team until his retirement on December 31, 2012 (the ""). Effective January 1, 2013, Mr. Fleischhacker will become a consultant for Molex and will perform consulting services through December 31, 2013.
Molex
Retirement Date
(e) On February 22, 2012, Molex and Mr. Fleischhacker entered into a Retirement and Waiver and Release Agreement (the "") in connection with Mr. Fleischhacker's retirement and a Consulting Agreement with Mr. Fleischhacker (the "") in connection with his consulting services to be performed from January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013 (the "").
Retirement Agreement
Consulting Agreement
Consulting Period
Under the Retirement Agreement, Mr. Fleischhacker (or his spouse if she survives him) will be entitled to receive a retirement benefit equal to 100% of his base salary as of the Retirement Date less applicable tax withholding and continued medical and dental benefits from January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2015. The Retirement Agreement also provides that the vesting of any outstanding non-vested stock options or other equity awards held by Mr. Fleischhacker on the Retirement Date will be accelerated and any such stock options will be exercisable pursuant to the terms of the applicable stock incentive plan and award agreement.
Molex is not obligated to make payments under the Retirement Agreement unless Mr. Fleischhacker complies with the confidentiality, non-solicitation, non-competition and non-disparagement covenants set forth in the Retirement Agreement following his retirement.
Under the Consulting Agreement, Mr. Fleischhacker will receive a monthly consulting fee of $10,000. Mr. Fleischhacker will not receive Molex-sponsored benefits pursuant to the Consulting Agreement. The Consulting Period may be extended upon the mutual agreement of Mr. Fleischhacker and Molex's Chief Operating Officer, and may be terminated by either Mr. Fleischhacker or Molex on 30 days' written notice, after which Molex will have no obligation to continue paying the consulting fee. Mr. Fleischhacker's entry into the Retirement Agreement is a condition to Molex's obligations under the Consulting Agreement.
These descriptions of the Retirement Agreement and the Consulting Agreement are qualified in their entirety by the Retirement Agreement and the Consulting Agreement, which are filed as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K and which are incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Retirement and Waiver and Release Agreement ("Agreement") is hereby made by and between James E. Fleischhacker, on behalf of himself, his spouse, beneficiaries, heirs, agents, successors, assigns, dependents, and anyone acting on his behalf (collectively referred to throughout this Agreement as "Fleischhacker"), and Molex Incorporated, on behalf of itself, its subsidiaries, divisions, affiliate companies, directors, officers, successors, employees, agents and anyone acting for it (collectively referred to throughout this Agreement as "Molex"). This Agreement provides for pay and/or benefits to Fleischhacker as retirement benefits, for consulting services to be performed by Fleischhacker, and for his forbearance from taking certain actions, all as specifically set forth below. This Agreement shall be effective as of February 22, 2012 (the "Effective Date").
The terms of this Agreement are as follows:
1. . Fleischhacker is currently employed by Molex as Executive Vice President and President, Commercial Products Division. Fleischhacker and Molex agree that effective June 30, 2012, Fleischhacker will step down as President, Commercial Products Division, and effective July 1, 2012, Fleischhacker will be appointed as Executive Vice President, Technology & Innovation, reporting to the Chief Operating Officer of Molex. In this role, Fleischhacker will be responsible for helping to: (i) establish Molex's product vision, platform and roadmap; (ii) execute Molex's product strategy; (iii) anticipate and react to major technology changes to ensure the maintenance of Molex leadership in the competitive landscape; (iv) manage the cross-divisional product innovation process to identify strategies, business opportunities and new technologies; and (v) establish key university relationships to explore new technologies and products and to develop a key technical employee talent pipeline. During this time, Fleischhacker will remain an executive officer of Molex and a member of the Global Leadership Team.
Employment Transition
2. . Fleischhacker and Molex agree and acknowledge that Fleischhacker shall voluntarily retire from Molex effective December 31, 2012 (the "Retirement Date"). Provided that Fleischhacker (i) remains in the employ of Molex through his Retirement Date and (ii) abides by all of Fleischhacker's obligations under Section 3 below, then on the condition that Fleischhacker does not revoke the signed Agreement within seven days of the Effective Date, Molex agrees to provide the following retirement pay, retirement benefits and other consideration (i.e., the "Consulting Agreement") to Fleischhacker:
Retirement and Consulting Arrangement
(a) . Molex agrees to enter into a Consulting Agreement with Fleischhacker pursuant to the terms and conditions provided in the Consulting Agreement attached hereto and made a part of this Agreement, and Fleischhacker agrees to execute this Agreement simultaneously with his execution of the Consulting Agreement. Fleischhacker agrees and acknowledges that his (i) failure to execute this Agreement or (ii) timely revocation of this Agreement shall render the Consulting Agreement null and void.
Consulting Agreement
(b) . From January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2015 (the "Retirement Period"), Molex shall pay Fleischhacker an annual retirement benefit in an amount equal to 100% of his base salary as of his Retirement Date, less applicable deductions and tax withholdings, payable in equal installments in accordance with Molex's regular payroll practice with the first installment being paid on the first regular payroll date following January 1, 2013. These payments shall continue to Fleischhacker's surviving spouse in the event of his death prior to the end of the Retirement Period. In the event of the death of Fleischhacker's surviving spouse prior to the end of the Retirement Period, the annual retirement benefits shall cease with the month of her death and no further annual retirement benefits shall be payable.
Annual Retirement Benefit
(c) . Molex shall continue to provide group medical coverage for Fleischhacker and his covered dependents in accordance with Molex's medical program through the Retirement Date. Fleischhacker shall contribute towards the cost of such health coverage for himself and any covered dependents at the applicable active-employee rate(s) then prevailing. Molex shall provide group medical coverage for Fleischhacker and his spouse in accordance with Molex's retiree medical program beginning on January 1, 2013. Fleischhacker and his spouse shall be provided retiree medical coverage through the dates of their respective deaths. Fleischhacker's covered dependents (other than his spouse) shall be provided medical coverage through the date they cease to be covered dependents under the terms of Molex's medical program. Fleischhacker shall contribute towards the cost of the retiree health coverage for himself and any covered dependents at the applicable retiree rate(s) then prevailing. The extension of retiree medical coverage will count against mandatory federal COBRA coverage extension. Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent Molex from increasing or decreasing active employee and retiree contribution rates for its medical programs, or from amending, modifying or terminating its active employee or retiree medical programs, as such rights are reserved to Molex under the terms of such programs.
Medical Coverage
(d) . Molex shall continue to provide group dental coverage for Fleischhacker and his covered dependents in accordance with Molex's group dental plan through the Retirement Date, which coverage shall thereafter continue for Fleischhacker and his covered dependents for the duration of the Retirement Period. Fleischhacker shall contribute towards the cost of the dental coverage for himself and any covered dependents at the applicable active employee rate(s) then prevailing. The extension of coverage will count against mandatory federal COBRA coverage extension. Beginning January 1, 2016, dental coverage will no longer be provided by Molex to Fleischhacker and/or his covered dependents. Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent Molex from increasing or decreasing active employee contribution rates for its dental programs, or from amending, modifying or terminating its active employee or retiree dental programs, as such rights are reserved to Molex under the terms of such programs.
Dental Coverage
(e) . Upon the Retirement Date, the vesting of any outstanding stock awards to Fleischhacker shall accelerate, and such awards shall be exercisable pursuant to the terms of the applicable stock incentive plan.
Equity Award Grants
(f) . Fleischhacker shall be entitled to keep the company vehicle leased by Molex for Fleischhacker's use as of the Effective Date. Fleischhacker shall be responsible for payment of any taxes relating to such benefit.
Automobile
 
(g) . Molex shall pay Fleischhacker all retirement benefits that he is entitled to receive under Molex's 401(k) plan and supplemental executive retirement plan(s) at such times as distributions are permitted to him under the terms of such plans and Sections 401(k) and 409A of the Internal Revenue Code; provided, that his eligibility to participate in such plans shall cease as of the Retirement Date. All other health and welfare benefits, including life insurance and long-term disability insurance, shall cease as of the Retirement Date.
Other Benefits
3. . Fleischhacker agrees that during the period of time he receives pay or benefits under Section 2 above, and for a period of 24 months thereafter, he will comply with the following provisions:
Fleischhacker's Obligations
(a) . Fleischhacker will not, directly or indirectly, either as an employee or a member of a partnership, or as an employee, sponsor, promoter, stockholder (except for publicly traded corporations), officer or director of a corporation or other business entity, or otherwise own, manage, operate, contract, be employed by, participate in, or be connected in any manner with the ownership, management, operation or control of any business, whether foreign or domestic, similar to or competing with the type of business conducted by Molex and the products produced by Molex without the prior express written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of Molex. If Fleischhacker secures subsequent employment which does not violate the restrictive covenants contained herein, as determined by the Chief Executive Officer of Molex, Molex shall remain obligated to perform under the terms of the Agreement.
Non-Compete
(b) . Fleischhacker, either directly or indirectly, will not solicit for employment or hire any employee of Molex on his own behalf or on behalf of any company, firm, organization or person or recommend any employee of Molex to any other person or party for employment without the prior express written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of Molex;
Non-Solicitation of Employees
(c) . Fleischhacker acknowledges that, by virtue of his employment with Molex, he has had access to and/or received trade secrets and other confidential and proprietary information (hereinafter "Confidential Information") with regard to Molex's business. Recognizing that the disclosure or improper use of such Confidential Information will cause serious and irreparable injury to Molex, Fleischhacker agrees that he will not at any time, directly or indirectly, disclose Confidential Information to any third party or otherwise use such Confidential Information for his own benefit or the benefit of others, without the prior written consent of Molex.
Confidential Information
(d) . Fleischhacker agrees that he shall not do or say anything that directly disparages or adversely affects Molex.
Molex Reputation
(e) . Fleischhacker agrees that as of his Retirement Date, he shall return to Molex all property and information belonging to Molex in accordance with Molex's separation policies, except for such materials required for him to perform any consulting duties under the Consulting Agreement.
Return of Molex Property
 
(f) . Fleischhacker acknowledges that the obligations set forth in Sections 3(a), (b) and (c) above are necessary to protect Molex's legitimate business interests, that breach of any of these obligations would cause irreparable harm to Molex justifying the awarding of injunctive relief against Fleischhacker as well as other remedies, and that he is agreeing to the obligations in Sections 3(a), (b) and (c) above because of the substantial consideration he is receiving hereunder.
Molex Relief
(g) . Fleischhacker agrees that if he breaches any of the obligations set forth in Sections 3(a), (b) and (c) above, then Molex has the right to discontinue and not provide any outstanding pay and/or benefits that Fleischhacker would otherwise not have been eligible to receive but for this Agreement.
Discontinuation of Payments
4. . Fleischhacker waives and releases Molex from any and all claims of any type arising out of or relating to his employment with Molex or the separation of his employment with Molex. This waiver and release includes, but is not limited to:
Waiver and Release
 
 
 
 
 
5. . Among the claims being waived and released by Fleischhacker are any and all claims under the federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act ("ADEA") and the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act of 1990 ("OWBPA"). Pursuant to the requirements of the ADEA and OWBPA, Fleischhacker acknowledges that:
ADEA Claims
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. . The parties hereto agree never to sue each other in any forum for any reason, including but not limited to claims, laws or theories covered by the above waiver and release language, but not including claims that arise after the effective date of this Agreement. Excepted from this promise are claims under the federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act challenging the validity of the waiver and release contained in this Agreement and only to the extent such an exception is required by law. Also excepted are any claims that cannot be waived by law and claims for breach of this Agreement. Nothing in this waiver and release shall preclude Fleischhacker from filing a charge or participating in an investigation or proceeding conducted by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. However, Fleischhacker agrees that he will not accept any benefit, monetary or otherwise, which may result from any such charge, investigation or proceeding.
Other Claims
7. . This Agreement does not constitute, is not intended to be, and shall not be construed, interpreted or treated in any respect, for any purpose whatsoever, as being an admission of liability or wrongdoing by Molex.
No Admission of Liability
8. . This Agreement supersedes any and all prior written or verbal communications relating to the subject matter hereto.
Superseding Agreement
9. . This Agreement may be amended only in a writing signed by both parties.
Amendment
10. . This Agreement shall be interpreted and governed in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois to the extent not preempted by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
Governing Law
11. . Fleischhacker agrees that he is signing this Agreement knowingly, voluntarily, and with a complete understanding of its significance, that he has not been coerced, threatened or intimidated into signing this Agreement, that he has not been promised anything else in exchange for signing this Agreement, and that he has had reasonable and sufficient time to consider this Agreement.
Fleischhacker Acknowledgment
 
12. .Molex and Fleischhacker acknowledge that due to the continuing consulting arrangement and continuing services Fleischhacker will perform for Molex that Fleischhacker will not incur a "separation from service" under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ("Section 409A") as of the Retirement Date. As a result, any continuing retirement benefit payments made following the Retirement Date will constitute payments made as a result of a fixed payment date and not made as a result of a separation from service, and no six-month delay shall be required. Molex and Fleischhacker further acknowledge that the retirement benefit payments made do represent "deferred compensation" under Section 409A and may not be accelerated or further deferred except as in accordance with Section 409A and the regulations issued thereunder.
Code Section 409A Compliance
13. . This Agreement shall be effective on the eighth day following the Effective Date if Fleischhacker does not revoke it before then. This entire Agreement shall be void and of no force and effect if Fleischhacker timely revokes this Agreement.
Effective Date
, the parties hereto have executed this Consulting Agreement as of the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
This Consulting Agreement ("Consulting Agreement") is by and between Molex Incorporated ("Molex") and James E. Fleischhacker, an individual ("Consultant"). Molex desires to retain Consultant as an independent contractor to perform consulting services for Molex, and Consultant is willing to perform such services, on the terms described below. Consultant's execution of the Retirement and Waiver and Release Agreement (the "Agreement") is a condition precedent to the effectiveness of this Consulting Agreement and this Consulting Agreement shall be effective as of the eighth (8th) calendar day following the date on which Consultant signs the Agreement and where Consultant has not timely revoked it. In consideration of the mutual promises contained herein, the parties agree as follows:
1. . Effective January 1, 2013, Fleischhacker shall become a consultant for Molex and shall perform consulting services for Molex through December 31, 2013 (the "Consulting Period").
Services and Compensation
(a) During the Consulting Period, Consultant will work two to three days a week out of the Lisle, Illinois office. Molex will provide Consultant with a work space, computer, mobile phone, administrative assistance and other resources as may be needed to accomplish his assigned tasks. In addition, any documented expenses Consultant may incur relating to the consulting position, including travel expenses, will be reimbursed by Molex in accordance with Molex's standard policies and procedures and as approved by the Chief Operating Officer.
(b) During the Consulting Period, Consultant will receive a monthly consulting fee of $10,000, paid ratably in accordance with the Lisle payroll cycle, subject to all applicable tax withholdings. The Consulting Period may be extended upon the mutual agreement of Consultant and the Chief Operating Officer of Molex. If Consultant ceases to provide consulting services at any time during the Consulting Period, Molex will cease, and have no obligation to continue paying, the consulting fee.
2. .
Confidentiality
(a) . The Consultant acknowledges that, during the course of performing his Services hereunder, Molex will disclose information to the Consultant relating to Molex's business (including, but not limited to, trade secrets, proprietary or competitively sensitive information, know-how, sales reports, details of contracts, the identity of Molex's or its affiliates' customers, potential customers, suppliers, pricing and discount policies, operational methods, market research, marketing plans and strategies, promotional information, product development techniques or plans, business acquisition plans, new personnel acquisition plans, financial information, data relating to employees and consultants, intellectual property, methods of manufacture, technical processes, designs and design projects, inventions and research projects, computer software, private processes, presentation materials, computer capabilities, reports, and other such information which is confidential for the business of Molex or its affiliates) (collectively, "Confidential Information"). Confidential Information also includes any information which Molex or its affiliates has received from a third party which Molex is obligated to treat as confidential or proprietary. The Consultant acknowledges that Molex's business is extremely competitive; dependent in part upon the maintenance of secrecy, and that any disclosure of the Confidential Information would result in serious harm to Molex.
Confidential Information
The term "Confidential Information" does not include any information that Consultant can document (i) is or (through no improper action or inaction by Consultant or any affiliate, agent, consultant or employee) becomes generally known to the public, (ii) was rightfully disclosed to Consultant by a third party without restriction, or (iii) is independently developed by Consultant without use of Confidential Information of Molex or its affiliates. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all Confidential Information developed by Consultant for Molex or its affiliates during the Term (as defined below) of this Consulting Agreement shall be assigned to Molex in connection with this Consulting Agreement and shall be deemed Confidential Information of Molex and exception (iii) above will not be applicable thereto.
(b) . The Consultant agrees that the Confidential Information will be used by the Consultant only in connection with consulting activities on behalf of and for the benefit of Molex or an affiliate, and will not be used in any way that is detrimental to Molex or an affiliate. The Consultant further agrees (i) to hold the Confidential Information in strictest confidence and to apply his best efforts to protect such Confidential Information (including, without limitation, taking at least that level of precaution Consultant employs with respect to his most confidential materials), (ii) to maintain any such Confidential Information or any information derived therefrom wholly separate from information provided to the Consultant by any third party or belonging thereto, (iii) not to disclose, directly or indirectly, any Confidential Information or any information derived therefrom to any third person (except employees of or consultants to Molex, subject to the conditions stated below), (iv) not to take any such Confidential Information into the facilities of any third party, and (v) not to copy, engineer or reverse engineer any such Confidential Information. Consultant shall notify Molex in writing immediately upon the occurrence of any unauthorized release or other breach of this Section 2 of which the Consultant is aware.
Nonuse and Nondisclosure
(c) . Consultant agrees that Consultant will not, during the Term, improperly use or disclose any proprietary information or trade secrets of any former or current employer of Consultant or other person or entity with which Consultant has an agreement or duty to keep in confidence. Unless provided to the Consultant by Molex or an affiliate for purposes of performing Services, Consultant also agrees that Consultant will not bring onto Molex's premises any unpublished document or proprietary information belonging to any former employer, person or entity unless consented to in writing by such employer, person or entity. Notwithstanding, the last sentence of this paragraph shall not apply to Molex's or its affiliates' unpublished documents or proprietary information that Molex or an affiliate provides to the Consultant for purposes of performing Services.
Former Client Confidential Information
(d) . Consultant recognizes that Molex has received and in the future will receive from third parties their confidential or proprietary information subject to a duty on Molex's part to maintain the confidentiality of such information and to use it only for certain limited purposes. Consultant agrees that, during the term of this Consulting Agreement and thereafter, Consultant owes Molex and such third parties a duty to hold all such confidential or proprietary information in the strictest confidence and not to disclose it to any person, firm or corporation or to use it except as necessary in carrying out the Services for Molex or an affiliate consistent with their respective agreements with such third party.
Third Party Confidential Information
 
(e) . Upon the termination of this Consulting Agreement, or upon Molex's earlier request, Consultant will deliver to Molex all property and information of Molex, Company's affiliates or their clients which came into his possession or were developed by him in the course of his consulting with Molex, including, but not limited to, project files, keys, reports, customer lists, credit cards, computers, facsimile machines, office supplies, pagers, mobile devices and printers.
Return of Materials
3. .
Inventions
(a) . Consultant will promptly disclose in writing to Molex, or to any persons designated by Molex, all discoveries, inventions, and improvements, including without limitation any designs, formulas, compounds, structures, works of authorship, trade secrets, technology, computer programs, ideas, processes, techniques, know-how and data, whether or not patentable or copyrightable (collectively, "Inventions"), which Consultant, either alone or jointly, makes, conceives of, or reduces to practice (i) in the course of or as a result of performing the Services, (ii) through use of information disclosed by Molex or an affiliate during the consulting relationship, whether or not such information is Confidential Information, (iii) through funding provided by Molex or an affiliate during the consulting relationship, and/or (iv) from use of premises or materials owned, leased or contracted for by Molex or an affiliate during the consulting relationship. Any Invention which Consultant is required to disclose to Molex pursuant to the preceding sentence is hereinafter referred to as a "Company Invention." Consultant will not disclose Company Inventions to any person outside Molex unless requested to do so by Molex.
Disclosure of Inventions
(b) . Consultant agrees that all Company Inventions shall be the sole property of Molex. Consultant agrees to assign and hereby assigns to Molex all title, patents, patent rights, copyrights, mask work rights, trade secret rights, and other intellectual property and rights anywhere in the world in connection therewith (collectively, Rights) to any such Company Inventions. Molex shall be the sole owner of all Rights in connection therewith.
Ownership and Assignment of Inventions
"
"
(c) . Consultant agrees to perform, at Company's sole cost, during and after the Term, all acts reasonably deemed necessary or desirable by Molex to permit and assist it in evidencing, perfecting, obtaining, maintaining, defending and enforcing Rights and/or Consultant's assignment with respect to such Company Inventions in any and all countries. Such acts may include, but are not limited to, execution of documents and assistance or cooperation in legal proceedings. If, and then only to the extent that, Company is unable after reasonable efforts to secure Consultant's signature on any document needed in connection with furthering the purposes of this Section 3(c), Consultant hereby irrevocably designates and appoints Molex and its duly authorized officers and agents, as Consultant's agents and attorneys-in-fact to act for and in behalf and instead of Consultant, to execute and file any documents and to do all other lawfully permitted acts to further the purposes of this Section 3(c) with the same legal force and effect as if executed by Consultant.
Further Assurances; Powers of Attorney
 
4. .
Conflicting Obligations
(a) Consultant certifies that Consultant has no outstanding agreement or obligation that is in conflict with any of the provisions of this Consulting Agreement or that would preclude Consultant from performing the Services or complying with the provisions of this Consulting Agreement. Consultant will not enter into any such conflicting agreement during the term of this Consulting Agreement. Consultant's violation of this Section 4 will be considered a material breach under Section 7(a).
Conflicting Obligations.
(b) . Consultant acknowledges and reaffirms his continuing obligations under the Agreement. Consultant acknowledges that the obligations in this Section 4 are ancillary to Consultant's nondisclosure obligations under Section 2.
Other Services
5. .
Term
(a) . The term of this Consulting Agreement will begin on January 1, 2013 and will continue for a period of one year through December 31, 2013. This Consulting Agreement may be extended upon the mutual agreement of Consultant and the Chief Operating Office of Molex.
Term
(b) . Either Consultant or Molex may terminate this Consulting Agreement, with or without cause, on thirty (30) days' written notice, by providing the other with written notice of such termination.
Termination
(c) . Upon such termination, all rights and duties of Molex and Consultant toward each other under this Consulting Agreement shall cease except:
Survival
 
 
 
 
6. .
Independent Contractor; Benefits
(a) It is the express intention of Molex and Consultant that Consultant perform the Services as an independent contractor to Molex. Nothing in this Consulting Agreement shall in any way be construed to appoint Consultant as an agent or employee of Molex. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Consultant is not authorized to bind Molex to any liability or obligation or to represent that Consultant has any such authority. Consultant agrees to furnish (or reimburse Molex for) all tools and materials necessary to accomplish this Consulting Agreement.
Independent Contractor.
(b) . Molex and Consultant agree that Consultant will receive no Company-sponsored benefits from Molex pursuant to this Consulting Agreement. If Consultant is reclassified by a state or federal agency or court as Company's employee, Consultant will become a reclassified employee and will receive no benefits from Molex, except those mandated by state or federal law, even if by the terms of Molex's benefit plans or programs of Molex in effect at the time of such reclassification, Consultant would otherwise be eligible for such benefits.
Benefits
7. .
Indemnification
(a) . Consultant agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Molex, its affiliates and their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all taxes, losses, damages, liabilities, costs and expenses, including attorneys' fees and other legal expenses, directly from or in connection with (i) any negligent, reckless or intentionally wrongful act of Consultant, (ii) a determination by a court or agency that the Consultant is not an independent contractor, (iii) any breach by the Consultant of the covenants contained in this Consulting Agreement, (iv) any failure of Consultant to perform the Services in accordance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, or (v) any violation or claimed violation of a third party's rights resulting in whole or in part from Molex's use of the work product of Consultant under this Consulting Agreement.
Consultant's Indemnification
(b) . Molex agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Consultant from and against all taxes, losses, damages, liabilities, costs and expenses, including attorneys' fees and other legal expenses, arising directly from or in connection with (i) any negligent, reckless or intentionally wrongful act of Molex, its affiliates or their respective employees or agents (other than Consultant), (ii) any breach by Molex, its affiliates or their employees or agents of any of the covenants contained in this Consulting Agreement, or (iii) any violation or claimed violation of a third party's rights resulting in whole or in part from the Consultant's use of the information or materials received from Molex or an affiliate under this Consulting Agreement.
Company's Indemnification
8. .
Arbitration and Equitable Relief
(a) . Consultant agrees that any and all controversies, claims or disputes with anyone (including Molex, its affiliates and their respective employees, officers, directors, shareholders or benefit plans of Molex, in its capacity as such or otherwise) arising out of,
Arbitration
 
relating to or resulting from Consultant's performance of the Services under this Consulting Agreement or the termination of this Consulting Agreement, including any breach of this Consulting Agreement, shall be subject to binding arbitration under the American Arbitration Association's National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes (the "Rules") and pursuant to Illinois law. CONSULTANT AGREES TO ARBITRATE, AND THEREBY AGREES TO WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY JURY WITH RESPECT TO, ALL DISPUTES ARISING FROM OR RELATED TO THIS CONSULTING AGREEMENT, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO: ANY STATUTORY CLAIMS UNDER STATE OR FEDERAL LAW, CLAIMS UNDER TITLE VII OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964, AS AMENDED, THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT OF 1990, AS AMENDED, THE AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT ACT OF 1967, AS AMENDED, THE OLDER WORKERS BENEFIT PROTECTION ACT, AS AMENDED, CLAIMS OF HARASSMENT, DISCRIMINATION OR WRONGFUL TERMINATION AND ANY STATUTORY CLAIMS. Consultant understands that this Consulting Agreement to arbitrate also applies to any disputes that Molex may have with Consultant.
(b) . Consultant agrees that any arbitration will be administered by the American Arbitration Association ("AAA"), and that a neutral arbitrator will be selected in a manner consistent with its National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes. Consultant agrees that the arbitrator will have the power to decide any motions brought by any party to the arbitration, including discovery motions, motions for summary judgment and/or adjudication and motions to dismiss and demurrers, prior to any arbitration hearing. Consultant agrees that the arbitrator will issue a written decision on the merits. Consultant also agrees that the arbitrator will have the power to award any remedies, including attorneys' fees and costs, available under applicable law. Consultant agrees that the arbitrator will administer and conduct any arbitration in a manner consistent with the Rules.
Procedure
(c) . Except as provided by the Rules, arbitration will be the sole, exclusive and final remedy for any dispute between Molex and Consultant. Accordingly, except as provided for by the Rules, neither Molex nor Consultant will be permitted to pursue court action regarding claims that are subject to arbitration. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the arbitrator will not have the authority to disregard or refuse to enforce any lawful Company policy, and the arbitrator shall not order or require Molex to adopt a policy not otherwise required by law which Molex has not adopted.
Remedy
(d) . In addition to the right under the Rules to petition the court for provisional relief, Consultant agrees that any party may also petition the court for injunctive relief where either party alleges or claims a violation of Section 2 (Confidentiality) or Section 3 (Conflicting Obligations) of this Consulting Agreement. In the event either Molex or Consultant seeks injunctive relief, the prevailing party will be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys' fees.
Availability of Injunctive Relief
(e) . Consultant acknowledges and agrees that Consultant is executing this Consulting Agreement voluntarily and without any duress or undue influence by Molex or anyone else. Consultant further acknowledges and agrees that Consultant has carefully read this Consulting Agreement and has asked any questions needed to understand the terms, consequences and binding effect of this Consulting Agreement and fully understands it, including that Consultant is waiving his right to a jury trial. Finally, Consultant agrees that Consultant has been provided an opportunity to seek the advice of an attorney of his choice before signing this Consulting Agreement.
Voluntary Nature of Consulting Agreement
 
9. .
Miscellaneous
(a) . This Consulting Agreement shall be governed by the laws of Illinois without regard to its conflicts of law rules.
Governing Law
(b) . Except as otherwise provided in this Consulting Agreement, Consultant may not sell, assign or delegate any rights or obligations under this Consulting Agreement.
Assignability
(c) . This Consulting Agreement and, to the extent applicable, the Agreement (including its continuing obligations provisions), constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Consulting Agreement and supersedes all prior written and oral agreements between the parties regarding the subject matter of this Consulting Agreement.
Entire Agreement
(d) . Headings are used in this Consulting Agreement for reference only and shall not be considered when interpreting this Consulting Agreement.
Headings
(e) . Any notice or other communication required or permitted by this Consulting Agreement to be given to a party shall be in writing and shall be deemed given if delivered personally or by commercial messenger or courier service, or mailed by U.S. registered or certified mail (return receipt requested), or sent via facsimile (with receipt of confirmation of complete transmission) to the party at the party's address or facsimile number written below or at such other address or facsimile number as the party may have previously specified by like notice. If by mail, delivery shall be deemed effective three (3) business days after mailing in accordance with this Section 8.
Notices
 
Molex Incorporated
2222 Wellington Court
Lisle, IL 60532-1682
Attn: Senior Vice President of Human Resources
 
(f) . In any court action at law or equity that is brought by one of the parties to this Consulting Agreement to enforce or interpret the provisions of this Consulting Agreement, the prevailing party will be entitled to reasonable attorneys' fees, in addition to any other relief to which that party may be entitled.
Attorneys' Fees
 
(g) . If any provision of this Consulting Agreement is found to be illegal or unenforceable, the other provisions shall remain effective and enforceable to the greatest extent permitted by law.
Severability
, the parties hereto have executed this Consulting Agreement as of the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 


