FILE:HCBK/HCBK-8K-20040225140450.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12.Not Applicable.
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosures.
On February 24, 2004, Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (the "Company") announced the appointment of Scott A. Belair of Ridgewood, New Jersey, to the Board of Directors of the Company, its holding company, Hudson City, MHC, and its principal operating subsidiary, Hudson City Savings Bank. A copy of the Company's press release announcing such action is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
No financial statements are required to be filed as part of this Report. The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report:
The information provided pursuant hereto shall not be deemed incorporated by reference by any general statement incorporating by reference this Form 8-K into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as mended, and shall not otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 24, 2004
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
PARAMUS: Hudson City takes great pride in announcing the appointment of Scott A. Belair of Ridgewood, New Jersey, to the Board of Directors of Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (NASDAQ: HCBK) its holding company, Hudson City MHC and its principal operating unit, Hudson City Savings Bank.
Mr. Belair is co-founder and Board member of Urban Outfitters, a public retailer and wholesaler operating under the brand names Urban Outfitters, Anthropologie, and Free People. He also currently serves as President of the ZAC Group, a financial consulting firm that he established in 1989. Previously, Mr. Belair was a Principal at Morgan Stanley and Vice President and C.F.O of the international offices and subsidiaries at Goldman Sachs. Ronald E. Hermance, Jr., President and C.E.O. of the Bank and its holding companies said, "Scott is a very active member in the New Jersey community and brings a wealth of experience to Hudson City. We are pleased to welcome him to the Board."
Mr. Belair graduated Summa Cum Laude from Lehigh University and earned an MBA from the Wharton School of Finance where he was awarded a Joseph Wharton Fellowship. Scott and his wife, Bayne live in Ridgewood, New Jersey with their three children.
Hudson City is the largest savings bank headquartered in New Jersey. It was recently named among the metro area's Fastest-Growing Companies by and listed in the Top 1000 Global Businesses by . The also cited Hudson City as The Top Performing Savings Bank in the Country.
Crain's New York Business
BusinessWeek
Wall Street Journal
Hudson City Bancorp Inc. (NASDAQ: HCBK) is the parent of Hudson City Savings Bank, a well-established community banking institution with a long-standing tradition of service excellence. It has 81 full-service branches throughout fourteen New Jersey counties, making it the largest savings bank headquartered in New Jersey with assets in excess of $17 billion. Hudson City Savings Bank's deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.


