FILE:HCBK/HCBK-8K-20050301135448.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7. Not Applicable.
Item 8. Other Events.
On February 28, 2005, Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (the "Company"), the holding company for Hudson City Savings Bank, issued a press release announcing the date for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report.
Item 9. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
No financial statements are required to be filed as part of this Report. The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report:
The information provided pursuant hereto shall not be deemed incorporated by reference by any general statement incorporating by reference this Form 8-K into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE  FEBRUARY 28, 2005
Paramus, New Jersey, February 28, 2005  Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (NASDAQ: HCBK), the holding company for Hudson City Savings Bank, announced today that the Board of Directors, at their February 15, 2005 meeting, established May 27, 2005 as the date for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The voting record date will be April 8, 2005.
Hudson City Bancorp maintains its corporate offices in Paramus, New Jersey. Hudson City Savings Bank, a well-established community financial institution serving its customers since 1868, is the largest savings bank based in New Jersey. Hudson City Savings currently operates 84 branch offices in New Jersey, with plans for an additional two to be opened during 2005. Hudson City Savings also operates one branch office in Suffolk County, NY, with plans to open an additional four in Suffolk County and two in Richmond County (Staten Island), NY. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insures Hudson City Savings' deposits.
This release may contain certain "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and may be identified by the use of such words as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "should," "planned," "estimated," and "potential." Examples of forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, estimates with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of Hudson City Bancorp that are subject to various factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from these estimates. These factors include, but are not limited to, general economic and market conditions, legislative and regulatory conditions, changes in interest rates that adversely affect Hudson City Bancorp's interest rate spread, changes in deposit flows, loan demand or real estate values and other economic, governmental, competitive, regulatory and technological factors that may affect Hudson City Bancorp's operations.


