FILE:HCBK/HCBK-8K-20060724153725.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[_] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[_] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12(b))
 
[_] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[_] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01
 
Other Events.
 
On July 18, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (the Company) and Hudson City Savings Bank (the "Bank"), and the Company's and Bank's Boards of Directors took the following actions relating to the compensation of executive officers and non-employee directors.
 
Equity Compensation for Non-Employee Directors.
On July 18, 2006, the Committee authorized the grant to each non-employee director of a non-qualified stock option to purchase 50,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock, par value $.01 per share ("Common Stock"), pursuant to the Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan that was approved by the shareholders at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "2006 Stock Incentive Plan"). The options will be granted on July 21, 2006, the third trading day after the release of the Company's financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, to each individual who is a non-employee director on such date and will have an exercise price per share equal to the closing sales price of Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. Common Stock on the Nasdaq Stock Market National Market System on such date. The options will be vested and become exercisable on the first anniversary of the grant date and are generally forfeited in the event the non-employee director terminates service before such date. In the event of termination of service due to death or disability (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan) within six months prior to the first anniversary of the grant date, the options will vest on the date of termination. In the event of a change in control (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan) before the first anniversary of the grant date, the options will vest on the date of the change in control. The options expire on the tenth anniversary of the grant date or, if earlier, immediately upon termination of service for cause (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan), one year after termination due to death, disability (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan) or retirement (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan), and three months after voluntary or involuntary termination for any other reason. The terms and conditions of the options will be set forth in a Stock Option Agreement , and the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, the full text of which was included as Appendix B to the Proxy Statement dated April 28, 2006 for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Equity Compensation for Executive Officers.
On July 18, 2006, the Committee authorized the grant to executive officers and other employees of the following option to purchase shares of the Company's Common Stock, pursuant to the Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan:
 
The options will be granted on July 21, 2006, the third trading day after the release of the Company's financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, to each grant recipient who is an active employee on such date and will have an exercise price per share equal to the closing sales price of Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. Common Stock on the Nasdaq Stock Market National Market System on such date. Retention options are designated as incentive stock options, up to applicable limits; all other options are granted as non-qualified stock options.
 
Retention options granted to all individuals other than Messrs. Hermance and Tassillo will be vested and become exercisable 60% on the third anniversary of the grant date, with the remaining 40% vesting on the fifth anniversary of the grant date. Retention options granted to Mr. Hermance and Mr. Tassillo will be vested and exercisable 100% on the third anniversary and first anniversary, respectively, of the grant date. Retention options are generally forfeited in the event the option recipient terminates service before such date. In the event of termination of service due to death or disability (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan) within six months prior to a vesting date, the options scheduled to vest on that vesting date will vest on the date of termination. In the event of a change in control (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan) followed by a discharge without cause or a resignation with good reason, all unvested options will vest on the date of termination. The options expire on the tenth anniversary of the grant date or, if earlier, immediately upon termination of service for cause (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan), one year after termination due to death, disability (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan) or retirement (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan), and three months after voluntary or involuntary termination for any other reason. The terms and conditions of the options will be set forth in a Retention Stock Option Agreement and the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, the full text of which was included as Appendix B to the Proxy Statement dated April 28, 2006 for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Performance options granted to all individuals will be vested and become exercisable 100% on December 31, 2008, provided that specified performance measures have been satisfied. The specified performance measures are target levels for average efficiency ratio and average credit quality (as measured by the ratio of non-performing assets to total assets) measured over the period of ten quarters ending December 31, 2008. Performance options are generally forfeited in the event the option recipient terminates service before the vesting date or if any one or more of the performance measures are not satisfied. In the event of termination of service due to death or disability (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan) within six months prior to a vesting date, the options scheduled to vest on that vesting date will vest on the date of termination. In the event of a change in control (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan) followed by a discharge without cause or a resignation with good reason, all unvested options will vest on the date of termination. The options expire on the tenth anniversary of the grant date or, if earlier, immediately upon termination of service for cause (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan), one year after termination due to death, disability (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan) or retirement (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan), and three months after voluntary or involuntary termination for any other reason. The terms and conditions of the options will be set forth in a Performance Stock Option Agreement and the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, the full text of which was included as Appendix B to the Proxy Statement dated April 28, 2006 for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Expansion of Participation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.
On July 18, 2006, the Bank's Board of Directors amended the Hudson City Savings Bank Supplemental Executive Retirement Program (the "SERP"), in which Messrs. Hermance, Salamone, Butkovich and Tassillo were the only active participants, to provide for participation by any employee of the Company or any of its wholly owned subsidiaries who is a participant in the tax-qualified Hudson City Savings Bank Employees Retirement Plan (the "Retirement Plan") and whose retirement benefits under the Retirement Plan's benefit formula are reduced by the application of the federal tax law limits on benefits and/or the maximum compensation that may be counted under the Retirement Plan's benefit formula. As a result of this amendment, Messrs. Laird and Kranz and one other Senior Vice President have become participants in the SERP.
 
Termination of Senior Officer Post-Retirement Death Benefit Program.
Effective on July 21, 2006, by mutual consent, the Bank terminated the Senior Officer Death Benefit Program in effect for each of its executive officers. Each executive officer continues to participate in the Bank's group term life insurance plan that applies to substantially all employees.
 
Item 9.01
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits
The following is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
      
Exhibit No.
 
Description
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Dated: July 24, 2006


