FILE:HCBK/HCBK-8K-20060213160449.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On February 7, 2006, the Compensation Committee of Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (the "Company") established performance-based bonus opportunities and related performance targets for executive officers under the Company's annual incentive plans for 2006.
The following bonus opportunities were established for Messrs. Ronald E. Hermance, Jr., Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Denis J. Salamone, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and John M Tassillo, Executive Vice President and Treasurer: $1,827,500; $910,000 and $456,000, respectively. These are maximum bonus opportunities that will be available if the Company achieves a specified level of pre-tax net operating income, excluding extraordinary items. After the end of the year, the Compensation Committee expects to conduct a subjective, retrospective evaluation of each executive's performance based on a number of factors, including corporate financial performance indicators other than pre-tax net operating income, specific operational achievements and indicators of leadership effectiveness, all in the context of the Company's business plan and the particular business environment that evolves during 2006. Based on this retrospective evaluation, the Compensation Committee may determine to award bonuses less than, but not greater than, the established bonus opportunities.
In addition, the Compensation Committee established bonus opportunities for 2006 for other reportable executive officers at 20% of annual salary rate for threshold performance, 40% of annual salary rate for target performance and 80% of annual salary rate for superior performance. Awards will generally be earned based on extent of achievement of specified levels of pre-tax net operating income (excluding extraordinary items) and individual performance goals established for each executive officer based on his or her functional position. All bonus amounts are subject to review and adjustment by the Compensation Committee after the end of the year.
The information provided pursuant hereto shall not be deemed incorporated by reference by any general statement incorporating by reference this
Form 8-K
into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts .
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 13, 2006


