FILE:HCBK/HCBK-8K-20070108113541.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02(c) Appointment of Principal Financial Officer.
Effective January 1, 2007, James C. Kranz was appointed the Chief Financial Officer of Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. ("the Company"). The Company issued a press release announcing Mr. Kranz's appointment on January 4, 2007. In conjunction with this appointment, Mr. Kranz has also been named principal financial officer of the Company. Prior to his appointment as Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Kranz, age 58, was Senior Vice President and Investment Officer of Hudson City Savings since January 2000 and Senior Vice President of Hudson City Bancorp since January 2004. He previously served as First Vice President and Investment Officer from 1989 to 2000. Mr. Kranz joined Hudson City Savings in 1983. He formerly served as the Investment Officer of another New Jersey savings bank for 12 years. Mr. Kranz is a member of the New Jersey Bond Club and serves on the Asset and Liability Management Committee of the New Jersey League of Community and Savings Bankers. Mr. Kranz has an undergraduate degree and a MBA from Lehigh University. He is a graduate of the Graduate School of Savings Banking at Brown University.
As part of Mr. Kranz's promotion, his annual base salary will be increased from $315,000 to $350,000. There were no other changes to Mr. Kranz's compensation at the time of his appointment.
There are no other arrangements or understandings between Mr. Kranz and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Kranz was appointed as Chief Financial Officer. Since the beginning of the Company's last fiscal year, Mr. Kranz has had no direct or indirect interest in any transaction to which the Company was a party.
A copy of the press release detailing the appointment of Mr. Kranz as Chief Financial Officer is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
No financial statements are required to be filed as part of this Report. The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report:
The information provided pursuant hereto shall not be deemed incorporated by reference by any general statement incorporating by reference this Form 8-K into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as mended, and shall not otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 8, 2007
Table of Contents

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact: Susan Munhall, Investor Relations, of Hudson City Bancorp,                               Inc., +1-201-967-8290, smunhall@hcsbnj.com
PARAMUS, NJ: Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (HCBK), the third largest savings bank in the United States, announced the promotion of James C. Kranz, 58, to the position of Chief Financial Officer.
Kranz, a 23-year veteran of Hudson City, is currently Senior Vice President and Investment Officer, responsible for investments, cash flow management and management of interest rate risk. Reporting to Denis J. Salamone, Sr., Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Kranz will maintain oversight of the entire accounting and finance function as well as primary execution responsibility for investments and borrowings.
According to Ronald E. Hermance, Jr., Hudson City's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, "Hudson City has long been recognized as The Most Efficient Bank in the Country. Our goal is to anticipate growth and ensure that we have the talent, technological infrastructure, and operating controls to manage it effectively. Jim has the track record, experience, and leadership skills to help us navigate through the exciting growth and complexities that our industry faces today."
The Bank first went public in 1999. During the ensuing six years, the Bank's assets grew at a compounded annual growth rate of over 22% without making an acquisition. In fact, Hudson City's total assets grew from $11.4 billion (December 2001) to over $20 billion by June 30, 2005. In June 2005, Hudson City marked another significant achievement in its 138-year history by raising $3.9 billion in capital upon conversion to full public ownership. This IPO was the seventh largest public stock offering in history and the largest ever by a U.S. bank. Since the 2005 public offering, the Bank has grown from assets of $22 billion to $33.6 billion as of September 30, 2006. "We're gratified both by the growth that we have achieved, as well as by the way in which our growth was managed," said Hermance. In late 2005, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods (KBW), well-respected analysts in the financial services industry, issued a report ranking the top 50 banks and thrifts in the nation, based on asset size, in eight key categories. Hudson City ranked #1 in efficiency, #2 in asset quality, #2 in non-performing assets, and #1 in capital adequacy.
During that exciting growth period, Hudson City was already planning its next move. In 2004, Hudson City cloned its winning New Jersey formula by expanding into nearby Long Island and Staten Island, New York. And, with its acquisition of Sound Federal Savings Bank in July 2006, it now operates in Westchester, Rockland, and Putnam counties in New York, as well as in Fairfield County, Connecticut. This combination provided the Bank with an opportunity to expand its franchise into Westchester County with eight branches, Fairfield County with four branches, and one branch in both Rockland and Putnam counties. "Although we operate in only three states, we
 
reach customers in 9 of the nation's top 50 markets in median household income," said Hermance.
The finance and accounting function will now be structured into three separate groups to support Hudson City's continued growth and complexity. As First Vice Presidents, Bill Rice will continue to oversee accounting operations, Michael McCambridge will direct asset/liability management, and Tony Fabiano, formerly CFO of Sound Federal, will run Financial Reporting.
Mr. Kranz, who will lead this effort, received his undergraduate and MBA degrees from Lehigh University and received a postgraduate degree from Brown University's Graduate School of Savings Banking. Jim is married, has 2 children, and is a long-time resident of Franklin Lakes.
In addition, Hudson City announced that First Vice President Louis J Beierle was named Director of Internal Audit. In this capacity, Mr. Beierle will assume responsibility for all internal audit activity as well as coordination with external auditors and oversight of Sarbanes/Oxley 404 compliance. He will report directly to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
According to Mr. Hermance, "Lou, a 13-year Hudson City veteran, has worn many hats during his tenure with the Bank. As we embark on future growth, I'm delighted that Lou will bring his financial acumen and experience to the oversight of our internal controls."
Hudson City Savings Bank, among the top fifty banks in the United States by asset size, is recognized as The Most Efficient Bank in the country. This enables Hudson City to deliver significant values to customers in the form of higher deposit yields, competitive mortgage rates, lower fees, and a straightforward, streamlined loan process. Hudson City, the largest savings bank headquartered in New Jersey, also serves customers throughout the surrounding metropolitan area with branches located in Westchester, Fairfield, Putnam, and Rockland counties, as well as in Long Island, Staten Island, and the New Jersey suburbs of Philadelphia. Deposit accounts at Hudson City are FDIC insured to the maximum allowed by law.
This release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and may be identified by the use of such words as "may," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "should," "plan," "estimate," "predict," "continue," and "potential" or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, estimates with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of Hudson City Bancorp and statements about the benefits of the merger between Hudson City Bancorp and Sound Federal Bancorp that are subject to various factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from these estimates. Any or all of the forward-looking statements in this release and in any other public statements made by Hudson City may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions Hudson City might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Hudson City does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this release or to conform these statements to actual events.


