FILE:HCBK/HCBK-8K-20071114084414.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 7 Regulation FD Disclosures.
On November 14, 2007, at 11:20 a.m. Ronald E. Hermance Jr., Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (the "Company"), will make a financial presentation regarding the Company at the Merrill Lynch Banking and Financial Services Investor Conference. The text of the Power Point slides used during this presentation is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
A simultaneous audio web cast of Mr. Hermance's presentation will be available through the following web cast link:
This link to the audio web cast will be available for 14 days following the presentation. The audio web cast will also be available through Hudson City Bancorp, Inc.'s website, . The slides accompanying this presentation are only available with this filing or through our website, .
www.hcbk.com
www.hcbk.com
Item 9 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
No financial statements are required to be filed as part of this Report. The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report:
The information provided pursuant hereto shall not be deemed incorporated by reference by any general statement incorporating by reference this Form 8-K into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 14, 2007
Table of Contents
Exhibit Index

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


