FILE:HCBK/HCBK-8K-20070130144627.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 5.02(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On January 22 and 23, 2007 the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (the "Company") and Hudson City Savings Bank (the "Bank"), and the Company's and Bank's Boards of Directors, took the following actions relating to the compensation of executive officers and non-employee directors.
     On January 22, 2007, the Committee authorized, subject to Board of Directors ratification, and on January 23, 2007 the Board of Directors ratified, the grant to executive officers and other employees of the following options to purchase shares of the Company's Common Stock, pursuant to the Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan:
Equity Compensation for Executive Officers.
     The options were granted on January 26, 2007, the third trading day after the release of the Company's financial results for the year ended December 31, 2006, to each grant recipient who was an active employee on such date and have an exercise price of $13.78 per share, which is equal to the closing sales price of Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. Common Stock on the Nasdaq Stock Market on such date. Retention options are designated as incentive stock options, up to applicable limits; all other options are granted as non-qualified stock options.
     Retention options granted to Mr. Tassillo will be vested and exercisable 100% on the first anniversary of the grant date. Retention options are generally forfeited in the event the option recipient terminates service before such date. In the event of termination of service due to death or disability (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan) within six months prior to a vesting date, the options scheduled to vest on that vesting date will vest on the date of termination. In the event of a change in control (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan) followed by a discharge without cause or a resignation with good reason, all unvested options will vest on the date of termination. The options expire on the tenth anniversary of the grant date or, if earlier, immediately upon termination of service for cause (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan), one year after termination due to death, disability (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan) or retirement (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan), and three months after voluntary or involuntary termination for any other reason. The terms and conditions of the options will be set forth in a Retention Stock Option Agreement and the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, the full text of which was included as
 
Appendix B to the Proxy Statement dated April 28, 2006 for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and which is incorporated herein by reference.
     Performance options granted to all individuals will be vested and become exercisable 100% on the third anniversary of the grant date, provided that the option recipient remains in the continuous employ of the Company and/or the Bank through the third anniversary of the grant date and specified performance measures have been satisfied. The specified performance measures are (1) as to one-half of the number of options granted to each recipient, a target level of aggregate diluted earnings per share measured over any four consecutive calendar quarters during calendar years 2007, 2008 and 2009, and (2) as to the balance of the number of options, a target level for return on average equity which must be attained or exceeded for at least one calendar quarter during 2007, 2008 or 2009. The performance targets are subject to adjustment by the Compensation Committee in the event of a purchase or disposition of a business unit or line of business, stock split, stock dividend or other event where an adjustment is appropriate to prevent the unintended enlargement or diminution of rights. Performance options are generally forfeited in the event the option recipient terminates service before the vesting date or if the applicable performance target is not achieved. In the event of termination of service due to death or disability (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan) within six months prior to a vesting date, the options scheduled to vest on that vesting date will vest on the date of termination. In the event of a change in control (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan) followed by a discharge without cause or a resignation with good reason, all unvested options will vest on the date of termination. The options expire on the tenth anniversary of the grant date or, if earlier, immediately upon termination of service for cause (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan), one year after termination due to death, disability (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan) or retirement (as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan), and three months after voluntary or involuntary termination for any other reason. The terms and conditions of the options will be set forth in a Performance Stock Option Agreement and the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, the full text of which was included as Appendix B to the Proxy Statement dated April 28, 2006 for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
The following is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 29, 2007


