FILE:HCBK/HCBK-8K-20070730125028.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
     Effective July 24, 2007, the Board of Directors of Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (the "Company") amended the Company's bylaws (the "Bylaws") to permit the Company to issue uncertificated shares. Previously, the Bylaws required that all shares of capital stock of the Company be represented by certificates. The Bylaws were amended in order for the Company to become eligible to participate in a Direct Registration Program as required by NASDAQ Rule 4350(l).
     The text of the Bylaw amendment is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K and is incorporated into this Item 5.03 by reference.
.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Text of Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. Bylaw Amendment.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 30, 2007
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     Section 1. . The shares of the Corporation's stock may be certificated or uncertificated, as provided under the Delaware General Corporation Law. Any certificates representing shares of stock shall be in such form as shall be determined by the Board. Each certificate shall state that the Corporation will furnish to any shareholder upon request and without charge a statement of the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of the shares of each class or series of stock and the qualifications or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights, or shall set forth such statement on the certificate itself. The certificates shall be numbered in the order of their issue and entered in the books of the Corporation or its transfer agent or agents as they are issued. Each certificate shall state the registered holder's name and the number and class of shares and shall be signed by the Chairman or the President and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, and may, but need not, bear the seal of the Corporation or a facsimile thereof. Any or all of the signatures on the certificates may be facsimiles. In case any officer or officers who shall have signed any such certificate shall cease to be such officer or officers of the Corporation, whether because of death, resignation or otherwise, before such certificate shall have been delivered by the Corporation, such certificate may nevertheless be adopted by the Corporation and be issued and delivered as though the person or persons who signed such certificate or certificates had not ceased to be such officer or officers of the Corporation.
Certificates of Stock
     Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated stock, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law or a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
     Section 2. . The Board shall have the power to appoint one or more Transfer Agents and Registrars and may require that all stock certificates, certificates representing any rights or options, and any written notices or statements relative to uncertificated stock be countersigned and registered by one or more of such Transfer Agents and Registrars.
Transfer Agent and Registrar
     Section 3. . Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, the name of each person owning a share of the capital stock of the Corporation shall be entered on the books of the Corporation together with the number of shares held by him or her, the numbers of the certificates, if certificated, covering such shares and the dates of issue of such certificates. Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, the shares of stock of the Corporation shall be transferable on the books of the Corporation by the holders thereof in person, or by their duly authorized attorneys or legal representatives, on surrender and cancellation of certificates for a like number
Registration and Transfer of Shares
 
of shares, accompanied by an assignment or power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such guarantee or proof of the authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require and with proper evidence of payment of any applicable transfer taxes. Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, a record shall be made of each transfer.
     Upon the receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered owner of uncertificated shares, such uncertificated shares shall be cancelled, issuance of new equivalent uncertificated shares or certificated shares shall be made to the shareholder entitled thereto and the transaction shall be recorded upon the books of the Corporation. If the Corporation has a transfer agent or registrar acting on its behalf, the signature of any officer or representative thereof may be in facsimile.
     Section 4. . The holder of any shares of stock of the Corporation shall immediately notify the Corporation of any loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of the certificates therefor. The Corporation may issue, or cause to be issued, (i) a new certificate or certificates of stock or (ii) uncertificated shares in place of any certificate or certificates theretofore issued by it alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed upon evidence satisfactory to the Corporation of the loss, theft or destruction of the certificate and, in the case of mutilation, the surrender of the mutilated certificate. The Corporation may, in its discretion, require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his or her legal representatives, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of any such certificate and the issuance of such new certificate, or may refer such owner to such remedy or remedies as he or she may have under the laws of the State of Delaware.
Lost, Destroyed and Mutilated Certificates
     Section 5. . Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, the Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of stock as the holder thereof in fact and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise expressly provided by law.
Holder of Record


