FILE:HCBK/HCBK-8K-20081229123429.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
     Effective December 24, 2008, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (the "Company") adopted amendments to Articles II and IV of the Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Bylaws") to provide for majority voting in uncontested elections of directors. Under the Bylaws, as amended, an incumbent director who does not receive the required majority vote must promptly tender his or her resignation. The Board committee responsible for recommending nominees for appointment or election to the Board, which is currently the Nominating and Governance Committee, will consider the resignation and make a recommendation to the Board as to whether the resignation should be accepted. Previously, the Bylaws required that directors be elected by a plurality of the votes cast. The amendments to the Bylaws became effective immediately upon adoption by the Board.
     The text of the Bylaw amendment is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated into this Item 5.03 by reference.
.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 29, 2008
 

Exhibit 3.1
Amendments to the Amended and Restated Bylaws of Hudson City Bancorp, Inc., amended and restated as of July 24, 2007
The Amended and Restated Bylaws of Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. ("Bylaws") are to be amended as follows:


