FILE:HCBK/HCBK-8K-20080904122834.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On September 3, 2008, Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it will be participating in the Lehman Brothers Global Financial Services Conference on September 9, 2008.
A simultaneous audio web cast of the Company's presentation will be available through the following web cast link:
This link to the audio web cast will be available until December 5, 2008. The link to the audio web cast and the slide presentation will also be available through Hudson City Bancorp, Inc.'s website, .
www.hcbk.com
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
No financial statements are required to be filed as part of this Report. The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report:
The information provided pursuant hereto shall not be deemed incorporated by reference by any general statement incorporating by reference this Form 8-K into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: September 4, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE  September 3, 2008
PARAMUS, N.J., September 3, 2008  Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (NASDAQ: HCBK), announced that it will participate in the Lehman Brothers Global Financial Services Conference on Tuesday, September 9, 2008. Ronald E. Hermance, Jr., Hudson City's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, will present at the conference at 12:00 PM Eastern Time.
A simultaneous audio web cast of Mr. Hermance's presentation, will be available through the following web cast link:
This link to the audio web cast will be available for 90 days following the presentation. The slide presentation and a link to the audio web cast will also be available through Hudson City Bancorp, Inc.'s website, . The link to the audio web cast presentation through our website will be available until December 5, 2008.
www.hcbk.com
Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. is the parent company of Hudson City Savings Bank, a well-established community banking institution with a long-standing tradition of service excellence. Hudson City is ranked in the top fifty U.S. financial institutions by asset size and operates a total of 125 branch offices in the New York metropolitan area. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insures Hudson City Savings' deposits.
The web cast and slide presentation referenced in this news release may contain a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements may be identified by the use of such words as "anticipate,' "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "outlook," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will," "would," and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions. Forward-looking statements are based on various assumptions and analyses made by us in light of management's experience and its perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors we believe are appropriate under the circumstances.


