FILE:HCBK/HCBK-8K-20100308154438.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On March 4, 2010, Hudson City Savings Bank (the "Bank"), the wholly owned subsidiary of Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (the "Company"), filed an application with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC") to convert from a federally chartered stock savings bank to a national bank (the "Application").
If the Application is approved, the Bank will no longer be a federal savings bank subject to the regulation and examination of the Office of Thrift Supervision (the "OTS") and will become a national bank subject to the regulation and examination of the OCC (the "Conversion"). In addition, the Company will cease being a savings and loan holding company subject to the regulation and supervision of the OTS and will become a bank holding company subject to the regulation and supervision of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "FRB"). A separate application to the FRB for the Company to become a bank holding company will be filed in the near future.
While the Bank and the Company will be subject to different regulatory frameworks upon completion of the Conversion, because of the nature of the Bank's business and operations, the Bank and the Company do not expect to be materially affected by this change in regulation.
Material differences in the regulation of the Bank and the Company upon completion of the Conversion include:
     (i) The Bank would be required to become a member of the Federal Reserve System.
     (ii) The Bank would no longer be subject to the OTS' Qualified Thrift Lender Test, which generally requires the Bank to maintain at least 65% of its "portfolio assets" (total assets less (1) specified liquid assets up to 20% of total assets, (2) intangibles, including goodwill, and (3) the value of property used to conduct business) in certain "qualified thrift investments" (primarily residential mortgages and related investments, including certain mortgage-backed securities, credit card loans, student loans, and small business loans) on a monthly basis during at least 9 out of every 12 months.
     (iii) The Bank would be subject to different lending limits. Federal thrifts are subject to loan to one borrower limitations, as well as to various lending limits on commercial loans (the aggregate may not exceed 20% of total assets, and any amounts exceeding 10% of assets must be in small business loans), consumer loans (the aggregate may not exceed 35% of assets when combined with acquisitions of certain debt securities), non-residential real estate loans (the aggregate may not exceed 400% of capital) and unsecured construction loans (the aggregate may not exceed total capital or 5% of total assets, whichever is greater). However, national banks are only subject to loan to one borrower limitations on these types of loans and guidelines with respect to concentrations in commercial real estate lending.
 
     (iv) The Company would become subject to detailed capital, managerial and liquidity requirements, as well as separate on-site examinations by the FRB. The FRB imposes capital requirements on a consolidated basis, whereas the OTS does not impose formal consolidated or unconsolidated regulatory capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies.
     (v) The Bank would become subject to restrictions on interstate branching. The OTS regulations authorize federal thrifts to branch nationwide to the extent allowed by federal statute, and OTS authority preempts any state law purporting to regulate branching by federal thrifts. As a national bank, the Bank would be permitted to establish interstate branches by merger (subject to prior OCC approval and certain other limits and findings). However, for a national bank to establish a de novo interstate branch, the laws of the state where the proposed branch is to be located must expressly permit de novo branching by out-of-state banks, and the OCC requirements applicable to interstate branching must be satisfied.
     (vi) The Bank would be subject to different levels of restriction on certain activities, including, but not limited to, insurance activities, providing investment advice, securities brokerage activities and mutual fund activities, none of which the Bank currently performs.
     (vii) The Bank would no longer be subject to OTS Thrift Bulletin 13a with respect to the measurement and management of interest rate risk.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
No financial statements are required to be filed as part of this Report. The following exhibits are furnished as part of this Report:
The information provided pursuant hereto shall not be deemed incorporated by reference by any general statement incorporating by reference this Form 8-K into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: March 8, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
RELEASE 4:30 PM  March 4, 2010
Paramus, New Jersey, March 4, 2010  Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (NASDAQ: HCBK), the holding company of Hudson City Savings Bank ("Hudson City"), announced today that Hudson City submitted an application to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC") to convert from a federally chartered stock savings bank to a national bank. Hudson City Bancorp will shortly file an application with the Federal Reserve to become a bank holding company. Both Hudson City and Hudson City Bancorp are currently regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision (the "OTS").
Ronald E. Hermance, Jr., Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer commented, "Our decision to convert to a national bank charter results from, among other things, our resolve to continue our solid level of performance and growth in the banking industry and to maintain the trust and confidence of our customer base during these uncertain financial times. The current regulatory reform bill that was approved by the House of Representatives would eliminate the OTS. In addition, President Obama's Budget Plan also calls for the dissolution of the OTS. While uncertainty exists at this time as to what the Senate will do with regard to regulatory reform, in light of the recent and ongoing period of extraordinary challenge and change in the banking industry, we believe that change in this industry is inevitable. At a time when trust and confidence in the banking industry is being challenged like never before, we believe it is important to stay ahead of any legal and regulatory changes implemented with regard to federal financial oversight. In order to accomplish this, we believe that it is necessary to take affirmative action by converting to a national bank charter now."
Mr. Hermance continued, "Our rapid growth and current asset size relative to our peers have also factored into our decision to convert to a national bank charter. With assets in excess of $60 billion, Hudson City is one of the largest savings banks in the United States and is among the top twenty-five banks in the country by asset size. Hudson City is one of only a few large thrift institutions currently regulated by the OTS. However, many of the banks that we consider to be peer institutions in terms of asset size are regulated by the OCC. In light of the remarkable growth we have experienced to date, the current size of our institution, and the continued growth we expect to see in the future, we believe the national bank charter is best suited for an institution of our size and provides us with the most flexibility going forward."
Mr. Hermance concluded, "We do not plan on changing our current business model. Our focus remains on attracting deposits and originating and purchasing first mortgage loans on residential properties, and we expect to continue this focus as a national bank."
 
Hudson City Bancorp, the holding company for Hudson City Savings Bank, maintains its corporate offices in Paramus, New Jersey. Hudson City Savings Bank, a well-established community financial institution serving its customers since 1868, is ranked in the top twenty-five U.S. financial institutions by asset size and is the largest thrift institution headquartered in New Jersey. Hudson City Savings currently operates a total of 131 branch offices in the New York metropolitan and surrounding areas and its deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.


