FILE:HCBK/HCBK-8K-20100426104321.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
The annual meeting of shareholders of Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (the "Company") was held on April 21, 2010. As of the record date, there were a total of 526,871,902 shares of common stock outstanding and entitled to vote at the annual meeting. At the annual meeting 438,347,036 shares of common stock were represented in person or by proxy, therefore a quorum was present. The following proposals were submitted by the Board of Directors to a vote of security holders and the final results of the voting on each proposal is noted below.
Proposal 1  Election of Directors
The following two directors were nominated to serve for three-year terms expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders to be held in 2013, or when their successors are otherwise duly elected and qualified. The two directors having received the requisite vote of a majority of the votes cast, as indicated below, were elected as directors of the Company.
Proposal 2  Adoption of the Executive Officer Annual Incentive Plan of Hudson City Bancorp, Inc.
The shareholders were asked to approve the adoption of the Executive Officer Annual Incentive Plan to help the Company and Hudson City Savings Bank maximize the tax deductibility of incentives that it pays to its executive officers. This plan was approved by the requisite vote of a majority of the shares represented in person or by proxy and entitled to vote, as indicated below.
Proposal 3  The ratification of the appointment of KPMG LLP as Hudson City Bancorp's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010
The shareholders were asked to ratify the appointment of KPMG LLP as the Company's independent public accounting firm. The appointment was approved by the requisite vote of a majority of the shares represented in person or by proxy and entitled to vote, as indicated below.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 26, 2010


