FILE:HCBK/HCBK-8K-20101220095737.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (the "Company"), the holding company of Hudson City Savings Bank (the "Bank"), at its Board of Directors meeting held on December 14, 2010, appointed Denis J. Salamone, age 57, to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer, effective immediately. Mr. Salamone previously served as the Company's Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Ronald E. Hermance, Jr. will continue to serve as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Identical corporate title changes were effectuated with respect to the Bank.
     Mr. Salamone joined the Company in 2001 as Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Salamone has also been a director on the Company's Board of Directors since 2001. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Salamone had a twenty-six year career with the independent accounting firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, where he had been a partner for sixteen years. Immediately prior to joining the Company, Mr. Salamone was the Global Financial Services leader for Audit and Business Advisory Services, and a member of the PricewaterhouseCoopers eighteen member board of partners. Mr. Salamone is a member of the American Institute of CPAs and a member of the New York State Society of CPAs. He graduated in 1975 with a B.S. in Accounting from St. Francis College where he is currently a member of its Board of Trustees.
     Mr. Salamone has 34 years of experience in the financial services industry. Prior to joining the Company, for 27 years Mr. Salamone served a clientele consisting of many banks and investment banks as a professional advisor. As a partner at a major accounting firm working with financial institutions, Mr. Salamone developed a depth of knowledge in areas of accounting, risk management, internal control, regulatory compliance and operational efficiency and effectiveness.
     Mr. Hermance, who has been employed by the Company for 22 years, has served as President and Chief Executive Officer since 2002. Mr. Hermance has served as Chairman of the Board since 2005. Prior to assuming these positions, Mr. Hermance had served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company since its incorporation in 1999 and of the Bank since 1997.
     A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Salamone's appointment is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     On December 17, 2010, the Company, announced that the Bank withdrew its application to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC") to convert to a national bank charter. As a result, the Bank will continue to operate as a federally chartered savings bank and the Company will continue as a saving and loan holding company.
     A copy of the press release announcing the withdrawal of the application to the OCC is attached as Exhibit 99.2.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     No financial statements are required to be filed as part of this Report. The following exhibits are furnished as part of this Report:
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 20, 2010
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE  December 17, 2010
Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (NASDAQ: HCBK) (the "Company"), the holding company of Hudson City Savings Bank ("Hudson City"), the largest savings bank and one of the top 25 banks in the United States named Denis J. Salamone as President. Mr. Salamone is the twelfth president since the Bank's founding in 1868.
PARAMUS, NJ 
According to Ronald E. Hermance, Jr., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, "Denis has been a wonderful addition to our team. He joined the Company in 2001 as Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and a member of the Board of Directors. During his tenure Hudson City has grown its total assets from $11.43 billion at December 31, 2001 to $60.62 billion at September 30, 2010. named Hudson City among The Best-Managed Banks in America in 2007, 2008, and 2009 and added Hudson City to its Platinum 400 list of America's Best Big Companies.' Denis is beginning his role as President during one of the most difficult and tumultuous periods in the banking industry. We know that Denis has the experience, knowledge and skills necessary to assist us in navigating these challenging times."
Forbes
Forbes
Prior to joining Hudson City, Mr. Salamone led a distinguished 26-year career as a Partner, Global Financial Services Leader and member of the Board of PricewaterhouseCoopers, one of the largest and most respected accounting firms in the world.
Mr. Salamone is an active member of his community. He serves on several boards including St. Francis College and the Ridgewood YMCA as Chairman. His contributions truly reflect the impact of community volunteerism.
Denis and his wife Joanne live in Ridgewood, New Jersey and are the proud parents of Steven and Thomas.
Hudson City Bancorp, the holding company for Hudson City Savings Bank, maintains its corporate offices in Paramus, New Jersey. Hudson City Savings Bank, a well-established community financial institution serving its customers since 1868, is ranked in the top twenty-five U.S. financial institutions by asset size and is the largest thrift institution headquartered in New Jersey. Hudson City Savings currently operates a total of 135 branch offices in the New York metropolitan and surrounding areas and its deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

Exhibit 99.2
RELEASE 8:00 AM  December 17, 2010
Paramus, New Jersey, December 17, 2010  Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (NASDAQ: HCBK) ("Bancorp"), the holding company of Hudson City Savings Bank ("Hudson City"), announced today that Hudson City withdrew its application to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC") to convert to a national bank. As a result, Hudson City will continue to operate as a federally chartered savings bank and Bancorp will continue as a saving and loan holding company. Pursuant to the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision (the "OTS") will be merged into the OCC as early as July 2011 and Hudson City will become subject to the regulation and supervision of the OCC and Bancorp will become subject to the regulation and supervision of the Federal Reserve Board.
Ronald E. Hermance, Jr., Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer commented, "Our original decision to convert to a national bank charter reflected the significant uncertainty surrounding various legislative proposals that sought to eliminate the thrift charter as well as the OTS, our primary federal regulator. However, with the adoption of the Dodd Frank Act, while the OTS will merge into the OCC, the thrift charter will survive. During the course of the application process and recently as part of our yearly business planning process, our Board has had the opportunity to assess our business plan in light of our solid level of performance and the trust and confidence of our customers and shareholders during these uncertain financial times. Without the regulatory uncertainty surrounding the thrift charter, it is readily apparent that our traditional thrift business model will remain the core of our business operations. Accordingly, we believe the thrift charter will continue to be the form of legal organization that is most compatible with our business plans, allow us to best serve our customers and provide the best opportunity to provide the long term financial results that our shareholders have come to expect."
Mr. Hermance concluded, "We recently learned that large thrifts such as Hudson City will be subject to the supervision of the OCC's mid-size bank group, the same team that would otherwise have supervised us as a national bank. A significant benefit of going through the application process was the early development of a working relationship with our new regulator. While our focus remains on attracting deposits and originating and purchasing first mortgage loans on residential properties, we are mindful of the enhanced regulatory scrutiny that the entire industry, bank and thrift alike, have been experiencing. We look forward to working closely with both the OTS and the OCC as the regulatory transfer date in July 2011 approaches to assure
 
our regulators, customers and shareholders that Hudson City will continue to adhere to the high standards expected of us."
Hudson City Bancorp, the holding company for Hudson City Savings Bank, maintains its corporate offices in Paramus, New Jersey. Hudson City Savings Bank, a well-established community financial institution serving its customers since 1868, is ranked in the top twenty-five U.S. financial institutions by asset size and is the largest thrift institution headquartered in New Jersey. Hudson City Savings currently operates a total of 135 branch offices in the New York metropolitan and surrounding areas and its deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.


