FILE:HCBK/HCBK-8K-20110421170315.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
The annual meeting of shareholders of Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (the "Company") was held on April 19, 2011. As of the record date, there were a total of 526,691,508 shares of common stock outstanding and entitled to vote at the annual meeting. At the annual meeting 424,822,751 shares of common stock were represented in person or by proxy, therefore a quorum was present. The following proposals were submitted by the Board of Directors to a vote of security holders and the Company's independent inspectors of election reported the final results of the vote on each proposal as follows:
Proposal 1  Election of Directors
Each of Ronald E. Hermance, Jr., William G. Bardel and Scott A. Belair were nominated to serve for three-year terms expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders to be held in 2014, or when their successors are otherwise duly elected and qualified. In addition, Cornelius E. Golding was nominated to serve for a two-year term expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders to be held in 2013, or when his successor is otherwise duly elected and qualified. The four directors having received the requisite vote of a majority of the votes cast, as indicated below, were elected as directors of the Company.
Proposal 2  The ratification of the appointment of KPMG LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011
The shareholders were asked to ratify the appointment of KPMG LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm. The appointment was approved by the requisite vote of a majority of the shares represented in person or by proxy and entitled to vote, as indicated below.
Proposal 3  Adoption of the Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan
The shareholders were asked to approve the adoption of the Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan. This plan was approved by the requisite vote of a majority of the shares represented in person or by proxy and entitled to vote, as indicated below.
 
Proposal 4  Approval of a non-binding advisory proposal on named executive officer compensation.
The shareholders were asked to approve the compensation awarded to the Company's named executive officers as set forth in the Company's proxy statement in a non-binding advisory vote. This non-binding advisory proposal was approved by the requisite vote of a majority of the shares represented in person or by proxy and entitled to vote, as indicated below.
Proposal 5  Approval of a non-binding advisory proposal on the frequency of future advisory votes on named executive officer compensation.
The shareholders were asked to consider and indicate their preference for, in a non-binding advisory vote, the frequency of future non-binding advisory proposals on named executive officer compensation. The choice that received the highest number of votes cast was a frequency of every year for future non-binding advisory proposals on named executive officer compensation. The number of votes cast with respect to this matter was as follows:
Proposal 6  Shareholder proposal regarding declassification of the Board of Directors.
A shareholder, The Nathan Cummings Foundation, requested that the shareholders be asked to vote on a non-binding proposal to declassify the Board of Directors, and to require that, commencing no later than the annual meeting to be held in 2013, all directors stand for election annually. This proposal was approved by the requisite vote of a majority of the shares represented in person or by proxy and entitled to vote, as indicated below. However, the proposal received approval by 49.8% of the shares outstanding, which is less than the vote that would be needed to amend the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and thereby effect the proposal.
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 21, 2011


