FILE:HCBK/HCBK-8K-20120210064224.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 10, 2012, Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (the "Company"), the holding company for Hudson City Savings Bank (the "Bank") issued a press release announcing that its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Ronald E. Hermance, has taken a temporary medical leave of absence from both the Company and the Bank, effective immediately. The Board of Directors appointed Denis J. Salamone, President and COO, to serve as acting Chairman and CEO along with his existing responsibilities during Mr. Hermance's absence. Mr. Hermance will continue to serve on the Board of Directors and will remain involved in major strategic decisions during his leave of absence.
In satisfaction of the disclosure required pursuant to Sections 401(b) and 401(e) of Regulation S-K, the section of the Company's 2011 Proxy Statement, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 17, 2011, entitled "Executive Officers" is incorporated by reference herein. With respect to the disclosure required pursuant to Section 401(d) of Regulation S-K, there are no family relationships between Mr. Salamone and any director or executive officer of the Company. With respect to Section 404(a) of Regulation S-K, there are no relationships or related transactions between Mr. Salamone and the Company that would be required to be reported.
The Company's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02.
 
No financial statements are required to be filed as part of this Report. The following exhibits are furnished as part of this Report:
 
The information provided pursuant hereto shall not be deemed incorporated by reference by any general statement incorporating by reference this Form 8-K into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 10, 2012
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
RELEASE 6:30 AM  February 10, 2012
 
 Hudson City Bancorp, Inc. (NASDAQ: HCBK) (the "Company"), the holding company for Hudson City Savings Bank (the "Bank"), announced today that Ronald E. Hermance Jr., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, will take a temporary medical leave of absence from both the Company and the Bank, effective immediately. The Board of Directors appointed Denis J. Salamone, President and Chief Operating Officer, to serve as acting Chairman and Chief Executive Officer along with his existing responsibilities during Mr. Hermance's absence.
PARAMUS, NEW JERSEY
During a routine physical examination a few weeks ago, Mr. Hermance's blood work came back with unexpected results, unusually low blood cell counts. According to Mr. Hermance, "Fortunately, because I go to the doctor two times each year, my diagnosis was made early. After conferring with the doctors, we determined that the best way to treat my disorder is with a bone marrow transplant."
Mr. Hermance will receive his treatments over the next several months. In order to focus his attention on his health, Mr. Hermance will take a temporary medical leave of absence with the full support of the Board.
"I have worked closely with Denis over the past ten years and have the utmost confidence in his abilities as well as in those of our leadership team. I will remain on the Board of Directors and continue to be involved in major strategic decisions," said Mr. Hermance.
"I want you all to know that I am fortunate to feel good physically, emotionally and spiritually. Whenever I'm confronted with challenges in life, I know that a positive mental attitude can make all the difference," said Mr. Hermance. "I will be in close contact with Denis during my absence and hope to return to the bank soon."
Hudson City Bancorp, the holding company for Hudson City Savings Bank, maintains its corporate offices in Paramus, New Jersey. Hudson City Savings Bank, a well-established community financial institution serving its customers since 1868, is the largest thrift institution headquartered in New Jersey. Hudson City Savings currently operates a total of 135 branch offices in the New York metropolitan and surrounding areas.


