FILE:EW/EW-8K-20040116161218.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): 
January 16, 2004
 
 
 
Item 5.  Other Events.
 
On January 16, 2004, Edwards Lifesciences Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), announced  the conclusion of a dispute resolution proceeding with Baxter International Inc. ("Baxter") regarding certain disagreements between the two companies arising from the Company's spin-off from Baxter in April 2000.  A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 7.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
        (c)  Exhibits:
 
Press release dated January 16, 2004
                99.1
                          
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES CONCLUDES ARBITRATION WITH BAXTER
RELATED TO SPIN-OFF
 
 
IRVINE, Calif., January 16, 2004
 Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (NYSE: EW), a global leader in medical technologies to treat advanced cardiovascular disease, announced today the conclusion of a dispute resolution proceeding with Baxter International Inc. (NYSE: BAX) regarding certain disagreements between the two companies arising from Edwards' spin-off from Baxter in April 2000.
 
Each company sought reimbursement from the other for a variety of claims, most of which were resolved through mutual agreement between the parties, and five of which were resolved by an arbitration panel.  The resolution of all claims results in a net payment by Baxter to Edwards of approximately $1 million.  From an accounting standpoint, the resolution will result in a one-time positive impact to Edwards' "Additional Contributed Capital" on its balance sheet of approximately $5 million related to the true-up of Edwards' beginning equity balance.  Separately, the resolution will also result in a one-time charge to Edwards' operating results of approximately $5 million in the fourth quarter of 2003, primarily arising from the valuation of receivables at the date of spin-off.  With this settlement, all outstanding spin-related disputes between the parties are now resolved.
 
About Edwards Lifesciences
 
Edwards Lifesciences is a leader in advanced cardiovascular disease treatments and the number-one heart valve company in the world.  Headquartered in Irvine, Calif.,
 
Edwards and Baxter Settle Arbitration
January 16, 2004
 
Edwards focuses on four main cardiovascular disease states: heart valve disease, coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular disease and congestive heart failure.  The company's global brands, which are sold in approximately 100 countries, include Carpentier-Edwards, Cosgrove-Edwards, Swan-Ganz and Fogarty.  Additional company information can be found at www.edwards.com.
 
Edwards Lifesciences and Edwards are trademarks of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation.  Carpentier-Edwards, Cosgrove-Edwards, Swan-Ganz and Fogarty are trademarks of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation and are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements that involve risks detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions made by management of the company and are believed to be reasonable, though are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict.  Actual results or experience could differ materially from the forward-looking statements.


