FILE:EW/EW-8K-20040727161149.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):  
July 27, 2004
 
Item 7.  Financial Statements, Financial Information and Exhibits.
Pro Forma
 
(c)
                                 
Exhibits
 
99.1
                          
Press release, dated July 27, 2004, reporting Edwards' financial results for the second quarter of 2004.
 
Item 12.  Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
This information furnished under this Item 12, including Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") except that the information contained in the first two paragraphs of Exhibit 99.1 and pages 7 through 13, inclusive, shall be considered to be filed under the Exchange Act.
 
On July 27, 2004, Edwards Lifesciences Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Edwards"), issued a press release setting forth Edwards' financial results for the second quarter of 2004. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (NYSE: EW), a global leader in products and technologies to treat advanced cardiovascular disease, today reported net income for the quarter ended June 30, 2004 of $25.5 million, or $0.41 per diluted share, compared to net income of $21.1 million, or $0.34 per diluted share, for the same period in 2003.  Excluding special charges itemized in the tables below, net income was $26.5 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, compared to net income of $23.9 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, the previous year.  During the quarter, the company recorded a $1.7 million pretax special charge related to the write-down of technology investments in two unconsolidated affiliates.
IRVINE, Calif., July 27, 2004
 
Second quarter net sales increased 7.7 percent to $234.6 million, compared to $217.8 million in the same quarter last year.  Foreign exchange contributed $9.3 million to the quarter's growth and was partially offset by discontinued products.
 
said Michael A. Mussallem, Edwards Lifesciences' chairman and CEO.
"Our second quarter results were led by strong global heart valve sales growth and operating performance, particularly in the U.S. and Europe," 
 
 
Recently introduced new products, such as our PERIMOUNT Magna heart valves and LifeStent peripheral stent systems, are gaining momentum and continue to generate positive customer feedback.  Additionally, we are making significant progress with our percutaneous valve technologies and continue to believe these therapies can ultimately benefit a large patient population that has few treatment options today."
"
 
Sales Results
 
For the second quarter, the Company reported Heart Valve Therapy sales of  $107.2 million, a 13.8 percent increase compared to the same quarter last year, with foreign exchange (FX) contributing $3.2 million to the growth.  "Once again this quarter, underlying tissue valve growth exceeded 10 percent, led by our market-leading PERIMOUNT tissue valves," said Mussallem.  "Global sales of our recently introduced PERIMOUNT Magna valve continue to be strong and we are confident that we will  exceed 10 percent sales growth in Heart Valve Therapy for the second half of the year."
 
This quarter's growth was due primarily to robust pressure monitoring product sales, and overall strong performance in both the U.S. and emerging global markets.
Critical Care sales grew 9.8 percent in the quarter to $75.6 million, with FX contributing $3.3 million to the growth. 
 
Cardiac Surgery Systems sales for the quarter were $26.0 million compared to $29.4 million last year, as strong global sales growth of cannulae and favorable FX were more than offset by last year's divestiture of the Company's German perfusion services business, lower perfusion sales in Japan and reduced sales of TMR.
 
Vascular sales increased to $15.3 million, and grew 9.1 percent compared to the same period in 2003, led by modest sales of peripheral stents and FX gains.  "The introduction of our LifeStent peripheral stents is progressing well in both the U.S. and Europe, and customer response to our differentiated products has been strong," Mussallem said.  "With the rollout of additional sizes at the end of June, we now have a
 
complete product offering of balloon-expandable stents.  We also began rolling out the first of our self-expanding stents and will continue to release additional sizes throughout the third quarter."
 
Sales of Other Distributed Products were $10.5 million in the quarter compared to $11.4 million in the year ago period.  Sales were impacted by reimbursement changes in Japan and the Company's de-emphasis of certain distributed cardiology products in that country.
 
omestic and international sales for the second quarter were $104.4 million and $130.2 million, respectively.
D
 
Additional Operating Results
 
For the quarter, Edwards' gross profit margin increased significantly from 58.9 percent to 60.6 percent compared to the second quarter of last year, primarily due to the expiration of currency hedging contracts that negatively impacted prior quarters and offset strong underlying results.  Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $81.0 million for the quarter, or 34.5 percent of sales compared to $75.8 million or 34.8 percent of sales in the year ago period.  The increase in SG&A over the year ago period was due primarily to the strengthening of foreign currencies and higher U.S. sales and marketing expenses.  Research and development (R&D) of $20.7 million increased 15.0 percent compared to the prior year, attributable to investments in percutaneous valve initiatives and additional amortization related to the Percutaneous Valve Technologies, Inc. acquisition.
 
Long term debt at June 30 was $312.8 million, resulting in a debt-to-cap ratio of 35 percent.  Free cash flow generated during the quarter was $19.8 million, calculated as cash flow from operating activities of $28.7 million minus capital expenditures of $8.9 million.
During the quarter, the Company repurchased approximately 345,000 shares of common stock for about $12 million.
 
Six-Month Results
 
For the six months ended June 30, 2004, the Company recorded a net loss of $36.6 million compared to net income of $35.6 million for the same period of 2003.  Excluding special charges itemized in the tables below, net income was $51.7 million, or $0.83 per diluted share, compared to $49.0 million, or $0.80 per diluted share, for the same period last year.
 
Net sales for the first six months of 2004 totaled $469.6 million, an increase of 9.1 percent over the same period last year.  Foreign exchange contributed $24.4 million to the period's growth and was partially offset by discontinued products.  Domestic and international sales for the six months were $208.9 million and $260.7 million, respectively.
 
2004 Outlook
 
Based on our year-to-date results and our outlook for the rest of the year, we remain solidly on track to achieve another year of strong performance and meet or exceed all of our 2004 financial goals," concluded Mussallem.  "Specifically, we expect to attain total sales of $930 to $940 million, fund investments in R&D above the underlying sales growth rate, deliver net income growth of 13 to 15 percent excluding the impact of the PVT transaction, and exceed $100 million in free cash flow.  Additionally, we are comfortable with the First Call mean EPS estimates for the remainder of the year."
"
 
2004 Investor Conference
 
to provide an update on its plans for continued growth
Edwards Lifesciences will be hosting its 2004 Investor Conference on December 3, 2004 in New York
  Additional information about this event will be available at a later date.
and its product pipeline.
 
About Edwards Lifesciences
 
Edwards Lifesciences, a leader in advanced cardiovascular disease treatments, is the number-one heart valve company in the world and the global leader in acute hemodynamic monitoring.  Headquartered in Irvine, Calif., Edwards focuses on specific cardiovascular opportunities including heart valve disease, peripheral vascular disease and critical care technologies.  The company's global brands, which are sold in approximately 100 countries, include Carpentier-Edwards, Cosgrove-Edwards, Fogarty, LifeStent, PERIMOUNT, and Swan-Ganz.  Additional company information can be found at http://www.edwards.com.
 
Conference Call and Webcast Information
 
.
Edwards Lifesciences will be hosting a conference call today at 5:00 p.m. EDT to discuss the results of the second quarter.  To participate in the conference call, dial (877) 407-8037 or (201) 689-8037.  The call will also be available via live or archived webcast on the "Investor Information" section of the Edwards' web site at http://www.edwards.com or http://www.edwards.com/ConferenceCalls.  For 72 hours following the call, an audio replay can be accessed by dialing (877) 660-6853 or (201) 612-7415 and using account number 2995 and conference number 111409
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties including those related to projected 2004 sales of Heart Valve Therapy products and PERIMOUNT Magna; the introduction of LifeStent peripheral stents in the U.S. and Europe; the introduction of additional sizes of LifeStent throughout the third quarter; the market-expanding opportunity for percutaneous heart valve therapies and the ability to achieve regulatory approval of those products; the strength of the company's leadership positions; the achievement of 2004 goals for total sales, R&D investment, net income growth, earnings per share and free cash flow generation; and more generally, the ability to generate growth through product development and/or acquisition; the ability to generate and maintain sufficient cash resources to increase investment in growth opportunities, repay debt or repurchase shares; the impact of foreign exchange; timing or results of pending or future clinical trials; actions by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other regulatory agencies; technological advances in the medical field; product demand and market acceptance; the effect of changing economic conditions; and other
risks detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  These forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions made by management of the company and are believed to be reasonable, though they are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict.  Actual results or experience could differ materially from that expressed or implied by forward-looking statements.
 
Edwards Lifesciences, Edwards and PERIMOUNT Magna are trademarks of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation.  Carpentier-Edwards, Cosgrove-Edwards, Fogarty, PERIMOUNT and Swan-Ganz are trademarks of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation and are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  LifeStent is a trademark of Edwards Lifesciences AG.
 
Edwards Lifesciences Corporation
Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
Edwards Lifesciences Corporation
Unaudited Balance Sheets
(in millions)
 
Certain disclosures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") contained in this discussion are accompanied by disclosures that are not prepared in conformity with GAAP.  Management has determined that these non-GAAP disclosures provide (1) a more meaningful, consistent comparison of the Company's operating results for the periods presented, on a basis consistent with management's means of evaluating operating performance, and (2) additional information for investors to assess changes between periods that better reflect the Company's ongoing operations. These non-GAAP disclosures, and the basis for excluding them, are set forth below:
 
- Fluctuation in exchange rates impacts the comparative results and growth rates of the Company's underlying business.  By excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, management explains changes in the fundamental business operations.
Foreign Exchange
 
- - The Company incurred purchased in-process research and development expenses on the acquisition of PVT this year and Jomed last year.  Given the materiality and unusual nature of these expenses relative to the operating results for the periods presented, these expenses have been excluded.
In-Process Research and Development
 
The Company generated certain special charges, that, given their materiality and unusual nature relative to the operating results for the periods presented, have been excluded.  The Company has also exited certain businesses which had made contributions to sales, and the losses upon exit had a significant impact on the profitability of the Company in the period of disposition.  The results of these exits have been excluded.
Other Items -
Edwards Lifesciences Corporation
Unaudited Reconciliation of Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
 
Edwards Lifesciences Corporation
Unaudited Reconciliation of Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
Edwards Lifesciences Corporation
Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations
Excluding Special Charges
 
 
Note: Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
Edwards Lifesciences Corporation
Unaudited Reconciliation of Sales by Product Line and Region
(in millions)
 


