FILE:EW/EW-8K-20051214140145.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): 
December 14, 2005
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
 
Pre-Commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
           
 
 
 
Corinne H. Lyle, age 45, is appointed President, Global Operations of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (the "Company'), effective January 1, 2006.  Presently, Ms. Lyle is Corporate Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company.  Prior to joining the Company as an officer in 2003, Ms. Lyle was a director of the Company and Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Tularik, Inc. (acquired by Amgen, Inc. in 2004) where she had various responsibilities in the areas of finance, investor relations, information technology, strategic planning and business development.  Prior to joining Tularik in October 1998, she was Executive Director-Health Care Group at Warburg Dillon Read LLC in San Francisco, an investment bank.  From 1994 to 1996, she was Senior Vice President, Investment Banking-Health Care Group for PaineWebber, Inc. in Los Angeles.  Ms. Lyle received her undergraduate degree in industrial engineering from Stanford University and her MBA from Harvard Business School.  Ms. Lyle is a director of Neurocrine Biosciences, Inc. and Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
 
Thomas M. Abate, age 52, is appointed Corporate Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, effective January 1, 2006.  Presently, Mr. Abate is Corporate Vice President and Controller of the Company.  Mr. Abate has been responsible for overseeing the Company's implementation and compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley requirements, leading the Company's Tax and Treasury departments, and overseeing numerous Company transactions and technology acquisitions.  He also oversaw the Company's foreign earnings repatriation, and led the Company's financial planning and forecasting functions.  Mr. Abate also played an instrumental role as the Company's controller in its spin-off from Baxter International Inc. in 2000.  During an 18-year tenure at Baxter, Mr. Abate served in a series of finance positions of increasing responsibility.  Mr. Abate earned a bachelor's degree in accounting from the University of Illinois and an MBA from Northern Illinois University.
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Investor Contact: David K. Erickson, 949-250-6826
Media Contact:  Barry R. Liden or Helen Hunt, 949-250-5070
 
 Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (NYSE: EW), the world leader in products and technologies to treat advanced cardiovascular disease, announced today that Corinne Lyle, 45, Edwards' chief financial officer and treasurer, has been appointed to the newly-created position of president, global operations, for the company, effective January 1, 2006.  In her new position, Lyle will report to Edwards' Chairman and CEO Michael Mussallem, and have direct responsibility for the company's Global Manufacturing, Quality, and Information Technology operations.
IRVINE, Calif., December 14, 2005
 
corporate vice president and controller.  Abate, 52, has been responsible for overseeing the company's implementation and compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley requirements, leading the company's Tax and Treasury departments, and overseeing numerous company transactions and technology acquisitions.  He also oversaw the company's foreign earnings repatriation, and led the company's financial planning and forecasting functions.  Abate also played an instrumental role in the company's spin-off from Baxter International Inc. in 2000.
Succeeding Lyle as Edwards' CFO and treasurer will be Thomas M. Abate, the company's
 
We are pleased to have Corinne assume an important new role within Edwards, and will rely upon her leadership as we continue to grow our core franchises and transform Edwards, with an increased focus on operational excellence and new product launches," said Michael A. Mussallem, Edwards chairman and CEO, adding, "Tom Abate has made many contributions to Edwards as a key member of our finance and leadership teams, and we look forward to a seamless transition in his new role."
"
 
 
 
During an 18-year tenure at Baxter, Abate was in a series of finance positions of increasing responsibility.  He also worked in a global capacity as vice president of finance for Clintec International, a joint venture with Baxter and Nestle based in Lausanne, Switzerland.  Abate earned a bachelor's degree in accounting from the University of Illinois and an MBA from Northern Illinois University.
 
About Edwards Lifesciences
 
Edwards Lifesciences, a leader in advanced cardiovascular disease treatments, is the number-one heart valve company in the world and the global leader in acute hemodynamic monitoring.  Headquartered in Irvine, Calif., Edwards focuses on specific cardiovascular opportunities including heart valve disease, peripheral vascular disease and critical care technologies.  The company's global brands, which are sold in approximately 100 countries, include Carpentier-Edwards, Cosgrove-Edwards, Fogarty, LifeStent, PERIMOUNT and Swan-Ganz.  Additional company information can be found at http://www.Edwards.com.
 
Edwards Lifesciences, Carpentier-Edwards, Cosgrove-Edwards, Fogarty, PERIMOUNT, and Swan-Ganz are trademarks of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation and are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  LifeStent is a trademark of Edwards Lifesciences AG and is registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
 


