FILE:EW/EW-8K-20050930172814.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): 
September 27, 2005
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
 
Pre-Commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
           
 
Item 1.01.             Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Effective September 29, 2005, Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (the "Company") entered into a First Amendment (the "First Amendment") to its Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of June 28, 2004, among the Company, as borrower; the lenders party thereto; JP Morgan Chase Bank as Administrative Agent; J.P. Morgan Europe Limited as London Agent; Mizuho Corporate Bank, Limited as Tokyo Agent; Bank of America, N.A. as Syndication Agent; and The Bank of Tokyo - Mitsubishi, Ltd., Mizuho Corporate Bank, Limited, Suntrust Bank and Wachovia Bank, N.A., as Documentation Agents.  The First Amendment reallocates, among various currencies and lenders, the maximum commitments of each lender.  A copy of the First Amendment is attached as Exhibit 10.1.
 
September 27, 2005, affiliates of the Company entered into a Seventh Amendment to Receivables Purchase Agreement (the "Seventh Amendment") to amend the Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2000, by and among Edwards Lifesciences Financing LLC, Edwards Lifesciences LLC, Blue Ridge Asset Funding Corporation and Wachovia Bank, N.A., as amended (the "Receivables Purchase Agreement").  The Seventh Amendment redefines the pool of Company receivables eligible for financing and extends the maturity date of the Receivables Purchase Agreement to September 19, 2006.  A copy of the Seventh Amendment is attached as Exhibit 10.2.
Effective
 
Item 9.01.
            
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)
          
Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
FIRST AMENDMENT dated as of September 29, 2005 (this ""), among EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the ""); the LENDERS (as defined in the Credit Agreement referred to below); JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent for the Lenders (the "").
First Amendment
Company
Administrative Agent
 
A.  Reference is made to the Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of June 28, 2004 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "") among the Company, the other Borrowers, the Lenders party thereto (the ""), the Administrative Agent, the London Agent, the Tokyo Agent, and the documentation agents. Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby.
Credit Agreement
Lenders
 
B.  The Company has requested that the Swiss Tranche Commitment be increased by an aggregate amount equal to $100,000,000 and that the US Tranche Commitment be decreased by an aggregate amount equal to $100,000,000.
 
C.  Each Lender is willing to effect such amendments on the terms and subject to the conditions of this First Amendment.
 
E.   Accordingly, in consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
SECTION 1.    Effective as of the First Amendment Effective Date:
Amendment of the Credit Agreement.
 
(a)    Schedule 2.01 attached to the Credit Agreement prior to giving effect to this First Amendment is hereby replaced with Schedule 2.01 to this First Amendment.  The aggregate amounts of the Swiss Tranche Commitment and the US Tranche Commitment, in each case after giving effect to this First Amendment, are $150,000,000 and $250,000,000, respectively.
Amendment of Schedule 2.01.
 
SECTION 2.    To induce the other parties hereto to enter into this First Amendment, the Company represents and warrants to each of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent that, as of the First Amendment Effective Date:
Representations and Warranties.
 
(a)  This First Amendment, including in the case of the Swiss Borrowers, the increase in the Swiss Tranche Commitment, has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by it and this First Amendment and the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby, constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms except as such enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and
 
by general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).
 
(b)  The representations and warranties set forth in Article III of the Credit Agreement are, after giving effect to this First Amendment, true and correct in all material respects on and as of the First Amendment Effective Date with the same effect as though made on and as of the First Amendment Effective Date, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date (in which case they were true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date).
 
(c)  No Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
 
SECTION 3.    This First Amendment and the amendment of the Credit Agreement effected hereby shall become effective as of the first date (the "") on which the following conditions have been satisfied:
Effectiveness.
First Amendment Effective Date
 
(a)  The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received duly executed counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of (i) the Administrative Agent, (ii) the Company, (iii) US Tranche Lenders having US Tranche Revolving Exposures and unused US Tranche Commitments representing more than 50% of the sum of total US Tranche Revolving Exposures and unused US Tranche Commitments (prior to giving effect to this First Amendment), (iv) Swiss Tranche Lenders having Swiss Tranche Exposures and unused Swiss Tranche Commitments representing more than 50% of the sum of total Swiss Tranche Exposures and unused Swiss Tranche Commitments (prior to giving effect to this First Amendment) and (v) each Lender with a Swiss Tranche Commitment that is increased after giving effect to this First Amendment.
 
(b)  The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate of the chief financial officer to the effect that the representations and warranties set forth in Section 2 hereof are true and correct on and as of the First Amendment Effective Date.
 
(c)  The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the authorization of this First Amendment and the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation, the increase in the Swiss Tranche Commitment, and any other legal matters relating to the Loan Parties, this First Amendment, and the transactions contemplated hereby, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
 
(d)  The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts due from any Loan Party hereunder or under the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document on or prior to the First Amendment Effective Date and, to the extent invoiced on or prior to the First Amendment Effective Date, reimbursement or payment of all out-of-pocket expenses (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel)
required to be reimbursed or paid by any Loan Party hereunder or under the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document.
 
The Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders of the First Amendment Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding.
 
SECTION 4.    (a)  Except as expressly set forth herein, this First Amendment shall not by implication or otherwise limit, impair, constitute a waiver of or otherwise affect the rights and remedies of the Lenders, the Administrative Agent or the Collateral Agent under the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, and shall not alter, modify, amend or in any way affect any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Credit Agreement or any other provision of the Credit Agreement or of any other Loan Document, all of which are ratified and affirmed in all respects and shall continue in full force and effect.  Nothing herein shall be deemed to entitle the Borrower to a consent to, or a waiver, amendment, modification or other change of, any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document in similar or different circumstances.
Effect of First Amendment.
 
(b)  On and after the First Amendment Effective Date, each reference in the Credit Agreement to "this Agreement", "hereunder", "hereof", "herein", or words of like import, and each reference to the Credit Agreement in any Loan Document shall be deemed a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.  This First Amendment shall constitute a "Loan Document" for all purposes of the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
 
SECTION 5.    The Company agrees to reimburse the Administrative Agent for its reasonable out of pocket expenses in connection with this First Amendment, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent.
Costs and Expenses.
 
SECTION 6.    It is agreed that for all purposes of Section 11.03(b) of the Credit Agreement, the execution, delivery and performance of this First Amendment and the other transactions contemplated hereby shall all be deemed to be transactions contemplated by the Credit Agreement.
Indemnity.
 
SECTION 7.    This First Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts together shall constitute but one and the same instrument.  Delivery of any executed counterpart of a signature page of this First Amendment by facsimile transmission shall be as effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart hereof.
Counterparts.
 
SECTION 8.    THIS FIRST AMENDMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Applicable Law.
SECTION 9.    The headings of this First Amendment are for purposes of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Amendment to be duly executed by their duly authorized officers, all as of the date and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
SEVENTH AMENDMENT TO RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT
 
dated as of September 27, 2005 (this ), is by and among Edwards Lifesciences Financing LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (), Edwards Lifesciences LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (), Blue Ridge Asset Funding Corporation, a Delaware corporation (), the liquidity banks from time to time party to the Liquidity Agreement (the together with Blue Ridge, the ) and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as agent for the Purchasers (the ), and pertains to the Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of December 21, 2000 amongst the parties hereto (as heretofore and hereby amended, the ). 
THIS SEVENTH AMENDMENT TO RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT,
"Amendment"
"Seller"
"Servicer"
"Blue Ridge"
"Liquidity Banks;"
"Purchasers"
"Agent"
"Purchase Agreement"
Unless otherwise defined in this Amendment capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Purchase Agreement.
 
the Seller wishes to make certain amendments to the Purchase Agreement; and
WHEREAS,
 
the Agent and the Purchasers are willing to agree to such amendments.
WHEREAS,
 
in consideration of the foregoing premises and the mutual agreements herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
 
.  The Purchase Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
1.
                                           
Amendments
 
(a)
                          
The definition of set forth in Exhibit I to the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
"Default Horizon Ratio"
 
means, as of any Cut-Off Date, the ratio (expressed as a decimal) computed by dividing (i) the aggregate sales generated by the Originator during the four (4) Calculation Periods ending on such Cut-Off Date, by (ii) the Net Pool Balance as of such Cut-off Date.
"Default Horizon Ratio"
 
(b)
                                
Clause (iii) of the definition of "" set forth in Exhibit I to the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Eligible Receivable
 
(iii) which is not a Delinquent Receivable, a Defaulted Receivable or owing from an Obligor as to which more than 50% of the aggregate Outstanding Balance of all Receivables owing from such Obligor are Defaulted Receivables,
 
(c)
                                 
The last two sentences of the definition of "" set forth in Exhibit I to the Purchase Agreement are hereby amended and restated in their entirety to read as follows:
Eligible Receivable
 
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, as of any date of determination, 47.5% of the Outstanding Balance of any Receivable generated in the then current month owing to the Distributor Division shall be deemed ineligible.  The Agent reserves the right, in its reasonable discretion, to adjust such percentage based on information provided to the Agent pursuant to this Agreement
 
(d)
                          
The definition of set forth in Exhibit I to the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
"Liquidity Termination Date"
 
means the earlier to occur of (a) September 19, 2006, and (b) the date on which a Downgrading Event with respect to a Liquidity Bank shall have occurred and been continuing for not less than 45 days, and either (i) the Downgraded Liquidity Bank shall not have been replaced by an Eligible Assignee pursuant to the Liquidity Agreement or (ii) the Liquidity Commitment of such Downgraded Liquidity Bank shall not have been funded or collateralized in such a manner that will avoid a reduction in or withdrawal of the credit rating applied to the Commercial Paper to which such Liquidity Agreement applies by any of the rating agencies then rating such Commercial Paper.
"Liquidity Termination Date"
 
(e)
                           
The definition of set forth in Exhibit I to the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
"Purchase Limit"
 
means $50,000,000.
"Purchase Limit"
 
(f)
                            
Section 9.1(h)(ii) of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended to delete "3.75%" where it appears and to substitute in lieu thereof "3.00%."
 
.  In order to induce Blue Ridge and the Agent, on behalf of the other Purchasers, to enter into this Amendment, each of the Seller Parties hereby represents and warrants to Blue Ridge and the Agent, on behalf of the other Purchasers, as follows:
2.
                                           
Representations and Warranties
 
(a) The execution and delivery by such party of this Amendment, and the performance of its obligations under the Purchase Agreement as amended hereby, are within such party's organizational powers and authority and have been duly authorized by all necessary organizational action on its part;
 
(b) This Amendment has been duly executed and delivered by such party, and the Purchase Agreement, as amended hereby, constitutes such party's legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against such party in accordance with its terms, except as such enforcement may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar laws relating to or limiting creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law), and
(c) As of the date hereof, no event has occurred and is continuing that will constitute an Amortization Event or an Unmatured Amortization Event.
 
.  This Amendment shall become effective as of the date first above written upon:
3.
                                     
Conditions Precedent
 
(a)
                                
execution and delivery to the Agent of a counterpart hereof by each of the parties hereto, and
 
(b)
                                
execution and delivery to the Agent of a counterpart of a fifth amended and restated Fee Letter by each of the parties thereto, and payment to the Agent of any fees due and owing thereunder on September 27, 2005.
 
.
4.
                                     
Miscellaneous
 
(a)
                                
CHOICE OF LAW
.  THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS (AND NOT THE LAW OF CONFLICTS) OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
(b)
                                
Counterparts
.  This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
 
(c)
                                 
Ratification of Purchase Agreement
.  Except as expressly amended hereby, the Purchase Agreement remains unaltered and in full force and effect and is hereby ratified and confirmed.
the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed and delivered by their duly authorized officers as of the date hereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 


