FILE:EW/EW-8K-20060420160750.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): 
April 20, 2006
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
                                   
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
                                   
 
Pre-Commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
                                   
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
                                   
 
 
Item 2.02.
                                         
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
This information furnished under this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") except that the information contained in the first two paragraphs of Exhibit 99.1 and pages 7 through  11, inclusive, shall be considered to be filed under the Exchange Act.
 
On April 20, 2006, Edwards Lifesciences Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Edwards"), issued a press release setting forth Edwards' financial results for the first quarter of 2006. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01.
                                         
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits
 
99.1
                          
Press release, dated April 20, 2006, reporting Edwards' financial results for the first quarter of 2006.
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
 Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (NYSE: EW), a world leader in products and technologies to treat advanced cardiovascular disease, today reported net income for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 of $45.9 million, or $0.73 per diluted share, compared to net income of $31.2 million, or $0.50 per diluted share, for the same period in 2005.  Non-GAAP net income, which excludes the special items detailed in the reconciliation table below and the impact of stock option expensing under Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement (FAS) 123(R), grew 15.6 percent to $34.8 million compared to $30.1 million for the same period last year.  Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share were $0.55 compared to $0.48 per share for the same period in the prior year.
IRVINE, Calif., April 20, 2006
 
First quarter net sales increased 3.1 percent to $256.7 million, compared to $249.1 million in the same quarter last year.  Sales growth this quarter was negatively impacted by $8.8 million in foreign exchange (FX) and $5.0 million of sales from discontinued businesses.
 
"Solid sales growth in all regions and across all of our market-leading franchises resulted in a total underlying growth rate of 9.1 percent this quarter," said Michael A. Mussallem, Edwards Lifesciences' chairman and CEO.
 
Sales Results
 
For the first quarter, the company reported Heart Valve Therapy sales of $125.1 million, a 7.2 percent increase compared to the same quarter last year, with FX negatively impacting sales by $4.0 million.  "Heart Valve Therapy growth was 11.0 percent on an underlying basis this quarter, driven by double digit growth in our market-leading PERIMOUNT tissue valves and our innovative heart valve repair products," said Mussallem.  "
Sales of our best-selling Magna aorticvalve continued to grow this quarter and, with the addition of our proprietary ThermaFix anti-calcification treatment, we expect to drive continued market penetration and share gains."
 
Critical Care sales of $81.1 million grew 1.5 percent compared to last year's quarter.  On a constant currency basis,
first quarter sales grew 5.7 percent due primarily to sales of pressure monitoring products, advanced technology catheters and the recently launched Edwards FloTrac minimally invasive monitoring system.
 
Cardiac Surgery Systems sales for the quarter were $23.3 million, a decline from $25.2 million in the same quarter last year due to the discontinuation of the company's Japan perfusion products business in 2005.  Excluding the impact of the divested business and FX, underlying sales grew 8.0 percent.
 
the same period in 2005, and a 15.8 percent increase excluding the impact of FX.  Growth this quarter was led by sequentially higher sales of LifeStent peripheral stents.
Vascular sales were $18.2 million, an 11.7 percent increase compared to
 
Sales of Other Distributed Products were $9.0 million in the quarter compared to $11.0 million in the year ago period.  The decline was due primarily to the impact of the discontinued pacemaker business in Japan.
 
Domestic and international sales for the first quarter were $121.1 million and $135.6 million, respectively.
 
Additional Operating Results
 
For the quarter, Edwards' gross profit margin improved to 63.7 percent from 61.4 percent in the first quarter of last year, driven primarily by a favorable FX impact and an increasingly profitable product mix.  The implementation of FAS 123(R) reduced the gross profit margin in the current quarter by 30 basis points.
 
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $92.2 million for the quarter, or 35.9 percent of sales, compared to $85.6 million, or 34.4 percent in the year ago period.  The implementation of FAS 123(R) increased SG&A expenses in the current quarter by $3.0 million, or 1.2 percentage points.  The remainder of the increase was due primarily to higher expenses related to the company's Heart Valve Therapy franchise and new products, partially offset by FX.
 
Research and development (R&D) expenses were $27.2 million for the quarter, or 10.6 percent of sales, compared to $25.0 million, or 10.0 percent of sales in the year ago period.  The implementation of FAS 123(R) increased R&D expenses in the current quarter by $0.8 million, or 30 basis points.  The remainder of the increase was due primarily to additional spending in the company's percutaneous valve programs.
 
During the quarter, the company recorded a $23.8 million pretax benefit from special items (detailed in the attached schedule), which resulted from a gain from a patent settlement and the receipt of an earn-out payment related to the
sale of the company's Japan perfusion products business last year
, partially offset by
a realignment charge related to the closing of a manufacturing facility.
 
This quarter, the company began expensing stock options as required by FAS 123(R).  The impact on net income for the quarter was $3.3 million, or $0.05 per share.  For 2006, the total cost of FAS 123(R) is expected to be $0.24 per share, consistent with previous estimates.
 
Free cash flow generated during the quarter was $29.2 million, calculated as cash flow from operating activities of $66.7 million minus capital expenditures of $8.0 million and the receipt of both the patent settlement of $23.8 million and the $5.7 million earn-out payment.  Long-term debt at March 31 was $288.8 million, resulting in a debt-to-cap ratio of 28.5 percent.  Cash and cash equivalents were $189.2 million at the end of the quarter.
 
During the quarter, the company repurchased approximately 687,000 shares of common stock for $29.4 million.
 
2006 Outlook
 
" Mussallem stated.  "Additionally, we remain confident in our ability to achieve our previously stated 2006 financial goals.  These include generating total sales between $1.02 to $1.06 billion, increasing our gross profit margin by 150 to 200 basis points, delivering non-GAAP net income growth of 12 to 15 percent excluding the impact of special items and stock option expensing, and generating free cash flow of $140 to $150 million.
"Based on our results this quarter, and our continued progress on growth initiatives, we expect another year of strong performance in 2006,
 
"Based on current FX rates, we are maintaining our 2006 sales estimate of $1.03 billion to $1.07 billion, which we increased last quarter.  We also remain comfortable with our previous guidance for full year EPS of $2.16 to $2.26 excluding special items and stock option expense, and $1.92 to $2.02 including an estimated $0.24 of stock option expense.  Finally, we expect second quarter EPS of $0.48 to $0.50 including approximately $0.08 per share of stock option expense," Mussallem concluded.
 
About Edwards Lifesciences
 
Edwards Lifesciences, a leader in advanced cardiovascular disease treatments, is the number-one heart valve company in the world and the global leader in acute
 
hemodynamic monitoring.  Headquartered in Irvine, Calif., Edwards focuses on specific cardiovascular opportunities including heart valve disease, peripheral vascular disease and critical care technologies.  The company's global brands, which are sold in approximately 100 countries, include Carpentier-Edwards, Cosgrove-Edwards, FloTrac, Fogarty, LifeStent, PERIMOUNT and Swan-Ganz.  Additional company information can be found at .
http://www.edwards.com
 
Conference Call and Webcast Information
 
Edwards Lifesciences will be hosting a conference call today at 5:00 p.m. EDT to discuss its results for the first quarter of 2006.  To participate in the conference call, dial (877) 407-8037 or (201) 689-8037.  For 72 hours following the call, an audio replay can be accessed by dialing (877) 660-6853 or (201) 612-7415 and using account number 2995 and conference number 198934.  The call will also be available via live or archived webcast on the "Investor Relations" section of the Edwards' web site at www.edwards.com or www.edwards.com/InvestorRelations/EventCalendar.htm.
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  These forward-looking statements are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, the ability to drive continued market penetration and share gains with the company's Heart Valve Therapy product portfolio including the Magna aortic valve and ThermaFix anti-calcification treatment; the ability to launch new products and develop a robust product pipeline; the estimated impact of FAS 123(R) on net income for 2006; the ability to accurately predict the impact of FAS 123(R) on the company's results; the ability to obtain regulatory approvals for and market new products; the ability to generate and maintain sufficient cash resources to increase investments in the company's business, repurchase shares or repay debt; the success and timing of new product launches; the impact of currency exchange rates; the timing or results of pending or future clinical trials; actions by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other regulatory agencies; technological advances in the medical field; product demand and market acceptance; changing conditions in the economy in general and in the healthcare industry; and other risks detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.  These forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions made by management of the company and are believed to be reasonable, though they are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict.  Actual results or experience could differ materially from that expressed or implied by forward-looking statements.
 
To supplement the consolidated financial results prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"), the Company uses non-GAAP financial measures that exclude certain items, such as in-process research and development expenses, special charges and
 
credits, results of discontinued businesses, and fluctuations in exchange rates.  Management does not consider the excluded items part of day-to-day business or reflective of the core operational activities of the Company as they result from transactions outside the ordinary course of business.  Management has also excluded the impact of implementing FAS 123(R) "Share Based Compensation" for year-over-year comparison purposes.  Management uses non-GAAP financial measures internally for strategic decision making, forecasting future results and evaluating current performance.  Guidance is provided only on a non-GAAP basis that excludes special items, foreign exchange fluctuations and the impact of stock option expensing due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting such items.  By disclosing non-GAAP financial measures, management intends to provide investors with a more meaningful, consistent comparison of the Company's core operating results and trends for the periods presented.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP; therefore, the information is not necessarily comparable to other companies and should be considered as a supplement to, not a substitute for, or superior to, the corresponding measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
Edwards Lifesciences, Edwards, FloTrac, Magna and ThermaFix are trademarks of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation.  Edwards Lifesciences, Carpentier-Edwards, Cosgrove-Edwards, Fogarty, LifeStent, PERIMOUNT, PERIMOUNT Magna and Swan-Ganz are trademarks of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation and are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  LifeStent is a trademark of Edwards Lifesciences AG.
 
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES CORPORATION
Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
 
Note: Numbers may not foot due to rounding
 
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES CORPORATION
Unaudited Balance Sheets
(in millions)
 
 
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES CORPORATION
Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
To supplement the consolidated financial results prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"), the Company uses non-GAAP financial measures that exclude certain items, such as in-process research and development expenses, special charges and credits, results of discontinued businesses, and fluctuations in exchange rates. Management does not consider the excluded items part of day-to-day business or reflective of the core operational activities of the Company as they result from transactions outside the ordinary course of business. Management has also excluded the impact of implementing Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123(R) ("FAS 123(R)") "Share Based Compensation" for year-over-year comparison purposes.
 
Management uses non-GAAP financial measures internally for strategic decision making, forecasting future results and evaluating current performance. Guidance is provided only on a non-GAAP basis that excludes special items, foreign exchange fluctuations and the impact of stock option expensing due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting such items. By disclosing non-GAAP financial measures, management intends to provide investors with a more meaningful, consistent comparison of the Company's core operating results and trends for the periods presented.
 
Non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP; therefore, the information is not necessarily comparable to other companies and should be considered as a supplement to, not a substitute for, or superior to, the corresponding measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
The items excluded from the GAAP financial results are set forth below:
 
- The Company incurred certain special charges and credits in 2006 and 2005 related to the following:
Special Charges, net
 
1)
        
Gain on Patent Settlement:  $20.2 million gain from a patent settlement with Medtronic in January 2006;
 
2)
        
Gain on Sale of Businesses:  $7.7 million proceeds from the sale of the Japan Perfusion Products business to Terumo in the first quarter of 2005, and $5.7 million cash received as the final earn-out payment in the first quarter of 2006;
 
3)
        
Realignment Expenses:  $2.1 million charge (primarily severance expenses) in the first quarter of 2006 resulting from the planned closing of a manufacturing facility, and $5.7 million charge for a Japan organizational realignment in the first quarter of 2005.
 
Given the magnitude and unusual nature of these special charges and credits relative to the operating results for the periods presented, these items have been excluded from non-GAAP net income.
 
- Non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of implementing FAS 123(R) in the first quarter of 2006. In Q1 2006, net stock option and employee stock purchase plan expense of $3.3 million was allocated as follows: $0.7 million to cost of goods sold, $3.0 million to SG&A expenses, $0.8 million to R&D expenses, with $1.2 million of tax benefit.
Stock option expensing
 
 The Company has exited certain businesses during the periods presented. As discontinued businesses do not have a continuing contribution to operations, management believes that excluding such items from the Company's growth provides investors with a means of evaluating the Company's on-going operations. In light of the significance of the impact these businesses had on the growth of the Company, the results of these businesses have been detailed in the Reconciliation of Sales by Product Line and Region.
Results of Discontinued Businesses
 
- Fluctuation in exchange rates impacts the comparative results and growth rates of the Company's underlying business. Management believes that excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations from its growth provides investors a more meaningful comparison to historical financial results. The impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations has been detailed in the Reconciliation of Sales by Product Line and Region.
Foreign Exchange
 
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES CORPORATION
Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to Non-GAAP Net Income
 
 
(1)  The tax effect on non-GAAP adjustments is calculated using the relevant tax jurisdiction of the transaction applying the local statutory tax rate.
 
(2)  Diluted non-GAAP earnings per share is calculated by adding back $1.0 million in interest expense related to the convertible debt to net income then dividing by the weighted average diluted shares outstanding.
 
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES CORPORATION
Unaudited Reconciliation of Sales by Product Line and Region
(in millions)
 
 


