FILE:EW/EW-8K-20060920155838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): 
September 19, 2006
 
 
(949) 250-2500
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
N/A
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report
)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
            Pre-Commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
ITEM 1.01.  ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT.
On September 19, 2006, an affiliate of the Company entered into an Eighth Amendment to the Receivables Purchase Agreement (the "Eighth Amendment") to amend the Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2000, by and among Edwards Lifesciences Financing LLC, Edwards Lifesciences LLC, Variable Funding Capital Company LLC (as assignee of Blue Ridge Asset Funding Corporation) and Wachovia Bank, N.A., as amended (the "Receivables Purchase Agreement").  The Eighth Amendment extends the maturity date of the Receivables Purchase Agreement to September 18, 2007.  A copy of the Eighth Amendment is attached as Exhibit 10.1.
 
 
2
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3
4

Exhibit 10.1
EIGHTH AMENDMENT TO RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT
dated as of September 19, 2006 (this ), is by and among Edwards Lifesciences Financing LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (), Edwards Lifesciences LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (), Variable Funding Capital Company LLC, a Delaware limited liability company () as assignee of Blue Ridge Asset Funding Corporation, the liquidity banks from time to time party to the Liquidity Agreement (the together with VFCC, the ) and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as agent for the Purchasers (the ), and pertains to the Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of December 21, 2000 amongst the parties hereto (as heretofore and hereby amended, the ). 
THIS EIGHTH AMENDMENT TO RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT,
"Amendment"
"Seller"
"Servicer"
"VFCC"
"Liquidity Banks;"
"Purchasers"
"Agent"
"Purchase Agreement"
Unless otherwise defined in this Amendment capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Purchase Agreement.
the Seller wishes to make certain amendments to the Purchase Agreement; and
WHEREAS,
the Agent and the Purchasers are willing to agree to such amendments.
WHEREAS,
in consideration of the foregoing premises and the mutual agreements herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
1.             .  The Purchase Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Amendments
(a)           All references in the Purchase Agreement to "Blue Ridge Asset Funding Corporation" and "Blue Ridge" are hereby replaced with "Variable Funding Capital Company LLC" and "VFCC," respectively.
(b)           Sections 13.4(b) and (c) of the Purchase Agreement are hereby combined, amended and restated in their entirety to read as follows:
(b)           Each of the Agent and the Purchasers shall maintain and shall cause each of its employees and officers to maintain the confidentiality of this Agreement and the other nonpublic, confidential or proprietary information with respect to the Seller and the Originator and their respective businesses obtained by it or them in connection with the structuring, negotiating, execution and administration of the transactions contemplated herein, except that such information may be disclosed: (i) to the Agent, the Liquidity Banks or VFCC by each other, (ii) to any prospective or actual assignee or participant of the Agent or any Purchaser, (iii) to any provider of a surety, guaranty or credit or liquidity enhancement to VFCC or any entity organized for the purpose of purchasing, or making loans secured by, financial assets for which Wachovia acts as the administrative agent (each, an ), (iv) to any rating agency or
"Enhancer"
1
Commercial Paper dealer, or (v) to any officers, directors, employees and/or external accountants, attorneys, consultants and advisors of any of the foregoing, each such Person is informed of the confidential nature of such information.  In addition, each of the Agent, the Purchasers and the Enhancers may disclose any such nonpublic information to its external accountants, attorneys, consultants and advisors and pursuant to any law, rule, regulation, direction, request or order of any judicial, administrative or regulatory authority or proceedings (whether or not having the force or effect of law).
provided that
(c)           The definition of set forth in Exhibit I to the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
"Default Horizon Ratio"
means, as of any Cut-Off Date, the ratio (expressed as a decimal) computed by dividing (i) the aggregate sales generated by the Originator during the five (5) Calculation Periods ending on such Cut-Off Date, by (ii) the Net Pool Balance as of such Cut-off Date.
"Default Horizon Ratio"
(d)           Clause (iii) of the definition of "" set forth in Exhibit I to the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Eligible Receivable
(iii) which is not a Defaulted Receivable or owing from an Obligor as to which more than 50% of the aggregate Outstanding Balance of all Receivables owing from such Obligor are Defaulted Receivables,
(e)         The definition of set forth in Exhibit I to the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
"Liquidity Termination Date"
means the earlier to occur of (a) September 18, 2007, and (b) the date on which a Downgrading Event with respect to a Liquidity Bank shall have occurred and been continuing for not less than 45 days, and either (i) the Downgraded Liquidity Bank shall not have been replaced by an Eligible Assignee pursuant to the Liquidity Agreement or (ii) the Liquidity Commitment of such Downgraded Liquidity Bank shall not have been funded or collateralized in such a manner that will avoid a reduction in or withdrawal of the credit rating applied to the Commercial Paper to which such Liquidity Agreement applies by any of the rating agencies then rating such Commercial Paper.
"Liquidity Termination Date"
(f)            The table in the definition of "" set forth in Exhibit I to the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended to replace "2%" where it appears in the bottom right-hand cell therein with "1.5%".
Obligor Concentration Limit
(g)           The definition of set forth in Exhibit I to the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
"Required Reserve Factor Floor"
means, for any Calculation Period, the sum (expressed as a percentage) of (a) 14.0% plus (b) the product of the Adjusted Dilution Ratio and Dilution Horizon Ratio, in each case, as of the immediately preceding Cut-Off Date.
"Required Reserve Factor Floor"
2
.  In order to induce VFCC and the Agent, on behalf of the other Purchasers, to enter into this Amendment, each of the Seller Parties hereby represents and warrants to VFCC and the Agent, on behalf of the other Purchasers, as follows:
2.
            
Representations and Warranties
(a) The execution and delivery by such party of this Amendment, and the performance of its obligations under the Purchase Agreement as amended hereby, are within such party's organizational powers and authority and have been duly authorized by all necessary organizational action on its part;
(b) This Amendment has been duly executed and delivered by such party, and the Purchase Agreement, as amended hereby, constitutes such party's legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against such party in accordance with its terms, except as such enforcement may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar laws relating to or limiting creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law), and
(c) As of the date hereof, no event has occurred and is continuing that will constitute an Amortization Event or an Unmatured Amortization Event.
.  This Amendment shall become effective as of the date first above written upon:
3.
            
Conditions Precedent
(a)           execution and delivery to the Agent of a counterpart hereof by each of the parties hereto, and
(b)           execution and delivery to the Agent of a counterpart of a sixth amended and restated Fee Letter by each of the parties thereto, and payment to the Agent of any fees due and owing on the date hereof.
.
4.
            
Miscellaneous
(a)           .  THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS (AND NOT THE LAW OF CONFLICTS) OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
CHOICE OF LAW
(b)           .  This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
3
(c)           .  Except as expressly amended hereby, the Purchase Agreement remains unaltered and in full force and effect and is hereby ratified and confirmed.
Ratification of Purchase Agreement
the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed and delivered by their duly authorized officers as of the date hereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
4
 
 
5


