FILE:EW/EW-8K-20061205160926.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): 
November 29, 2006
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES CORPORATION
 
(949) 250-2500
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
N/A
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report
)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
            Pre-Commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 2.05               Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
On November 29, 2006, an affiliate of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (the "Company") decided to discontinue its sales activity related to the Optiwave 980 Cardiac Laser Ablation System ("Atrial Fibrillation Program").  In addition, the Company is realigning resources to better drive key strategic opportunities.  These combined changes result in the elimination of approximately 70 full-time positions, primarily in the U.S.
As a result of these actions, the Company expects to record a pre-tax charge in the fourth quarter 2006 of approximately $16 million, of which approximately $9 million will be non-cash.  The charge consists of assets write-offs (intangibles, inventory and fixed assets) related to the Atrial Fibrillation Program in the amount of $9 million, and employee severance and benefit costs in the amount of $7 million.
Sales of the Optiwave 980 Cardiac Ablation System were less than $1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006.
On December 5, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing the above actions.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 2.06               Material Impairments.
The information set forth under Item 2.05 (Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities) is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.
                                         
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)          
Exhibits
99.1
        
Press release, dated December 5, 2006, reporting the Company's decision to reorganize operations.
2
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
3
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (NYSE: EW), a global leader in medical technologies to treat advanced cardiovascular disease, announced today the discontinuation of its Optiwave 980 Cardiac Laser Ablation System.  In addition, Edwards is realigning resources to better drive key strategic opportunities.  The combined changes result in the elimination of approximately 70 full-time positions and an estimated $16 million pre-tax charge in the fourth quarter. 
IRVINE, Calif., December 5, 2006
said Michael A. Mussallem, chairman and CEO.  "At this time we are actively recruiting talent to fill many new roles as we increase investments to drive growth."
"We believe that focusing on our strategic imperatives and restructuring our organization best prepares us for the new technologies and growth platforms Edwards is pursuing,"
Edwards' original strategy for investing in the treatment of atrial fibrillation was based on the potential for market leadership resulting from Optiwave 980's unique laser energy source and its close relationship to the company's heart valve business.  The company has chosen to apply resources to programs with greater growth opportunities, such as Edwards' core heart valve business and transcatheter aortic valve opportunities.
About Edwards Lifesciences
Edwards Lifesciences, a leader in advanced cardiovascular disease treatments, is the number-one heart valve company in the world and the global leader in acute hemodynamic monitoring.  Headquartered in Irvine, Calif., Edwards focuses on specific cardiovascular disease
1
states including heart valve disease, peripheral vascular disease and critical care technologies. The company's global brands, which are sold in approximately 100 countries, include Carpentier-Edwards, Cosgrove-Edwards, FloTrac, Fogarty, LifeStent, PERIMOUNT Magna and Swan-Ganz. Additional company information can be found at http://www.edwards.com.
Edwards, Ascendra, FloTrac, MOBIUS and MONARC are trademarks of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation.  Edwards Lifesciences, Carpentier-Edwards, Cosgrove-Edwards, Fogarty, PERIMOUNT Magna and Swan-Ganz are trademarks of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation and are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  LifeStent is a trademark of Edwards Lifesciences AG and is registered in the United States Patent and Trademark Office.
2


