FILE:EW/EW-8K-20070921151132.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): 
September 18, 2007
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
            Pre-Commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
ITEM 1.01.  ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT.
On September 18, 2007, an affiliate of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (the "Company") entered into a Ninth Amendment to Receivables Purchase Agreement (the "Ninth Amendment") to amend the Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of  December 21, 2000, by and among Edwards Lifesciences Financing LLC, Edwards Lifesciences LLC, Variable Funding Capital Company LLC (as assignee of Blue Ridge Asset Funding Corporation) and Wachovia Bank, N.A. (the "Receivables Purchase Agreement").  The Ninth Amendment extends the maturity date of the Receivables Purchase Agreement to September 16, 2008.  A copy of the Ninth Amendment is attached as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 9.01.
                                      
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
                               
Exhibits
 
2
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3
 
4

Exhibit 10.1
NINTH AMENDMENT TO RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT
dated as of September 18, 2007 (this ), is by and among Edwards Lifesciences Financing LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (), Edwards Lifesciences LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (), Variable Funding Capital Company LLC, a Delaware limited liability company () as assignee of Blue Ridge Asset Funding Corporation, the liquidity banks from time to time party to the Liquidity Agreement (the together with VFCC, the ) and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as agent for the Purchasers (the ), and pertains to the Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of December 21, 2000 amongst the parties hereto (as heretofore and hereby amended, the ). 
THIS NINTH AMENDMENT TO RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT,
"Amendment"
"Seller"
"Servicer"
"VFCC"
"Liquidity Banks;"
"Purchasers"
"Agent"
"Purchase Agreement"
Unless otherwise defined in this Amendment capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Purchase Agreement.
the Seller wishes to make certain amendments to the Purchase Agreement; and
WHEREAS,
the Agent and the Purchasers are willing to agree to such amendments.
WHEREAS,
in consideration of the foregoing premises and the mutual agreements herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
1.            .  The Purchase Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Amendments
(a)           The definition of set forth in Exhibit I to the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
"Liquidity Termination Date"
means the earlier to occur of (a) September 16, 2008, and (b) the date on which a Downgrading Event with respect to a Liquidity Bank shall have occurred and been continuing for not less than 45 days, and either (i) the Downgraded Liquidity Bank shall not have been replaced by an Eligible Assignee pursuant to the Liquidity Agreement or (ii) the Liquidity Commitment of such Downgraded Liquidity Bank shall not have been funded or collateralized in such a manner that will avoid a reduction in or withdrawal of the credit rating applied to the Commercial Paper to which such Liquidity Agreement applies by any of the rating agencies then rating such Commercial Paper.
"Liquidity Termination Date"
(b)           The definition of set forth in Exhibit I to the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
"Required Reserve Factor Floor"
1
means, for any Calculation Period, the sum (expressed as a percentage) of (a) 10.0% plus (b) the product of the Adjusted Dilution Ratio and Dilution Horizon Ratio, in each case, as of the immediately preceding Cut-Off Date.
"Required Reserve Factor Floor"
2.            .  In order to induce VFCC and the Agent, on behalf of the other Purchasers, to enter into this Amendment, each of the Seller Parties hereby represents and warrants to VFCC and the Agent, on behalf of the other Purchasers, as follows:
Representations and Warranties
(a) The execution and delivery by such party of this Amendment, and the performance of its obligations under the Purchase Agreement as amended hereby, are within such party's organizational powers and authority and have been duly authorized by all necessary organizational action on its part;
(b) This Amendment has been duly executed and delivered by such party, and the Purchase Agreement, as amended hereby, constitutes such party's legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against such party in accordance with its terms, except as such enforcement may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar laws relating to or limiting creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law), and
(c) As of the date hereof, no event has occurred and is continuing that will constitute an Amortization Event or an Unmatured Amortization Event.
3.            .  This Amendment shall become effective as of the date first above written upon:
Conditions Precedent
(a)           execution and delivery to the Agent of a counterpart hereof by each of the parties hereto, and
(b)           execution and delivery to the Agent of a counterpart of a seventh amended and restated Fee Letter by each of the parties thereto, and payment to the Agent of any fees due and owing on the date hereof.
4.            .
Miscellaneous
(a)           .  THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS (AND NOT THE LAW OF CONFLICTS) OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
CHOICE OF LAW
(b)           .  This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
2
(c)           .  Except as expressly amended hereby, the Purchase Agreement remains unaltered and in full force and effect and is hereby ratified and confirmed.
Ratification of Purchase Agreement
the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed and delivered by their duly authorized officers as of the date hereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
3
 
 
 
 
4


