FILE:EW/EW-8K-20070516161541.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
           
 
Item 1.01.              Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On May 10, 2007, the stockholders of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (the "Company") approved an amendment to the Company's Long-Term Stock Incentive Compensation Program (the "Long-Term Stock Program") to increase the number of shares of common stock available for issuance by 1,000,000 shares.  The Long-Term Stock Program was amended by the Board of Directors to require that each option become exercisable over a minimum period of two years from the date of grant.  A copy of the Long-Term Stock Program is attached as Exhibit 10.1.
Also on May 10, 2007, the Company's stockholders approved an amendment to the Company's 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan for United States Employees (the "ESPP") to increase the number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance under such plan by 800,000 shares.  A copy of the ESPP is attached as Exhibit 10.2.
On May 10, 2007, the Company's Board of Directors approved an amendment to the Company's Nonemployee Directors Stock Incentive Program (the "Nonemployee Directors Program") to: (i) change the amount of shares offered as an initial retainer to a value-based amount not to exceed $200,000 or 5,000 shares, whichever is lower; and (ii) remove net share counting provisions.  A copy of the Nonemployee Directors Program is attached as Exhibit 10.3.
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)          
Exhibits
 
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 16, 2007
 
3
 
 
4

Exhibit 10.1
Long-Term Stock Incentive Compensation Program (Amended and restated as of March 6, 2007)
Edwards Lifesciences Corporation
 
Edwards Lifesciences Corporation Long-Term Stock Incentive Compensation Program (Amended and restated as of March 6, 2007)
Article 1. Establishment, Objectives, and Duration
.  Edwards Lifesciences Corporation, a Delaware corporation (hereinafter referred to as the "Company"), hereby amends and restates the incentive compensation plan established April 1, 2000 and known as the "Edwards Lifesciences Corporation Long-Term Stock Incentive Compensation Program" (hereinafter, as amended and restated, referred to as the "Program"), as set forth in this document. The Program permits the grant of Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units.
1.1        Establishment of the Program
The Program became effective as of April 1, 2000 (the "Effective Date") and shall remain in effect as provided in Section 1.3 hereof.
The Program was amended and restated effective as of July 12, 2000 to clarify the definition of "Subsidiary" and was subsequently further amended and restated as of May 8, 2002, February 20, 2003, February 17, 2005, February 16, 2006 and March 6, 2007.
.  The objectives of the Program are to optimize the profitability and growth of the Company through long-term incentives which are consistent with the Company's goals and which link the personal interests of Participants to those of the Company's stockholders; to provide Participants with an incentive for excellence in individual performance; and to promote teamwork among Participants. Awards generally are made in conjunction with services performed by the Participant within the previous twelve (12) months.
1.2        Objectives of the Program
The Program is further intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of Participants who make significant contributions to the Company's success and to allow Participants to share in the success of the Company.
.  The Program shall commence on the Effective Date, as described in Section 1.1 hereof, and shall remain in effect, subject to the right of the Board to amend or terminate the Program at any time pursuant to Article 14 hereof, until all Shares subject to it shall have been purchased or acquired according to the Program's provisions. However, in no event may an Award be granted under the Program on or after April 1, 2010.
1.3        Duration of the Program
Article 2. Definitions
Whenever used in the Program, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word shall be capitalized:
means, individually or collectively, a grant under this Program of Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
2.1        "Award"
1
means an agreement entered into by the Company and each Participant setting forth the terms and provisions applicable to Awards granted under this Program.
2.2        "Award Agreement"
or means the Board of Directors of the Company.
2.3        "Board"
"Board of Directors"
of the Company shall mean the occurrence of any one of the following events:
2.4        "Change in Control"
Any "Person", as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act (other than the Company, any corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company, and any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or such proportionately owned corporation), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing thirty percent (30%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
(a)
                           
During any period of not more than twenty-four (24) months, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors of the Company, and any new director (other than a director designated by a Personwho has entered into an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction described in Sections 2.4(a), 2.4(c), or 2.4(d) of this Section 2.4) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof; or
(b)
                          
The consummation of a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other entity, other than: (i) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than sixty percent (60%) of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation; or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no Person acquires more than thirty percent (30%) of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
(c)
                           
The Company's stockholders approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company, or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets (or any transaction having a similar effect).
(d)
                          
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
2.5
"Code"
                        
2
means the Compensation and Governance Committee or any other committee appointed by the Board to administer Awards to Participants, as specified in Article 3 herein.
2.6        "Committee"
means Edwards Lifesciences Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and any successor thereto as provided in Article 16 herein.
2.7        "Company"
means an individual providing services to the Company who is not an Employee or member of the Board, and who does not participate in the Edwards Lifesciences Corporation Nonemployee Directors and Consultants Stock Incentive Program.
2.8        "Contractor"
means a Participant who is one of the group of "covered employees," as defined in the regulations promulgated under Code Section 162(m), or any successor statute.
2.9        "Covered Employee"
shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Participant's governing long-term disability plan, or if no such plan exists, at the discretion of the Board.
2.10      "Disability"
shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 1.1 hereof.
2.11      "Effective Date"
means any employee of the Company or of a Subsidiary of the Company. Directors who are employed by the Company shall be considered Employees under this Program.
2.12      "Employee"
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or any successor act thereto.
2.13      "Exchange Act"
means, at any date, the closing sale price on the principal securities exchange on which the Shares are traded on the last previous day on which a sale was reported.
2.14      "Fair Market Value"
or means an option to purchase Shares granted under Article 6 herein and which is designated as an Incentive Stock Option and which is intended to meet the requirements of Code Section 422.
2.15      "Incentive Stock Option"
"ISO"
shall mean an individual who is, on the relevant date, an officer, director, or beneficial owner of more than ten percent (10%) of any class of the Company's equity securities that is registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, all as defined under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
2.16      "Insider"
or means an option to purchase Shares granted under Article 6 herein and which is not intended to meet the requirements of Code Section 422.
2.17      "Nonqualified Stock Option"
"NQSO"
means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option, as described in Article 6 herein.
2.18      "Option"
means the price at which a Share may be purchased by a Participant pursuant to an Option.
2.19      "Option Price"
3
means an Employee or Contractor who has been selected to receive an Award or who has outstanding an Award granted under the Program.
2.20      "Participant"
means the performance-based exception from the tax deductibility limitations of Code Section 162(m) applicable to compensation payable to Covered Employees.
2.21      "Performance-Based Exception"
means the period during which the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock is limited in some way (based on the passage of time, the achievement of performance goals, or upon the occurrence of other events as determined by the Committee, in its discretion), and the Shares are subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, as provided in Article 7 herein.
2.22      "Period of Restriction"
means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Article 7 herein.
2.23      "Restricted Stock"
means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Article 8 herein.
2.24      "Restricted Stock Units"
means, unless otherwise defined in the applicable Award Agreement, any termination of an Employee's employment or a Contractor's service after age fifty-five (55) other than due to death, Disability or, with respect to Awards made after May 8, 2002, Cause, provided that such Employee or Contractor has at least a combined ten (10) years of service with the Company and Baxter International Inc. A Participant's number of years of service with the Company and Baxter International Inc. shall be determined by calculating the number of complete twelve-month (12) periods of employment from the Participant's original date of hire as an Employee or Contractor with the Company or Baxter International Inc. to the Participant's date of employment or service termination.  Employment or service with Baxter International Inc. shall be included for purposes of determining qualification for Retirement only to the extent that such employment or service immediately, and without any break, precedes employment or service with the Company.  For purposes of this definition, unless defined otherwise in the applicable Award Agreement, "Cause" means: (a) a Participant's willful and continued failure to substantially perform his duties with the Company or a Subsidiary (other than any such failure resulting from Disability); (b) a Participant's willfully engaging in conduct that is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company or a Subsidiary, monetarily or otherwise; or (c) a Participant's having been convicted of a felony. For the purpose of determining "Cause," no act, or failure to act, on a Participant's part shall be deemed "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by the Participant not in good faith and without reasonable belief that the action or omission was in the best interests of the Company or a Subsidiary.
2.25      "Retirement"
      means the shares of common stock of the Company.
2.26
"Shares"
means any business, whether or not incorporated, in which the Company beneficially owns, directly or indirectly through another entity or entities, securities or interests representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the voting securities or voting interests of such business.
2.27      "Subsidiary"
4
Article 3. Administration
.  The Program shall be administered by the Compensation and Governance Committee of the Board, or by any other Committee appointed by the Board, which shall consist of two (2) or more nonemployee directors within the meaning of the rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 16 of the Exchange Act who also qualify as outside directors within the meaning of Code Section 162(m) and the related regulations under the Code, except as otherwise determined by the Board. Any Committee administering the Program shall be comprised entirely of directors. The members of the Committee shall be appointed from time to time by, and shall serve at the sole discretion of, the Board.
3.1        General
The Committee shall have the authority to delegate administrative duties to officers, Employees, or directors of the Company; provided, however, that the Committee shall not be able to delegate its authority with respect to: (i) granting Awards to Insiders; (ii) granting Awards that are intended to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception; and (iii) certifying that any performance goals and other material terms attributable to Awards that are intended to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception have been satisfied.
.  Except as limited by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the Company, and subject to the provisions of the Program, the Committee shall have the authority to: (a) interpret the provisions of the Program, and prescribe, amend, and rescind rules and procedures relating to the Program; (b) grant Awards under the Program, in such forms and amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate, including, without limitation, Awards which are made in combination with or in tandem with other Awards (whether or not contemporaneously granted) or compensation or in lieu of current or deferred compensation; (c) subject to Article 14, modify the terms of, cancel and reissue, or repurchase outstanding Awards; (d) prescribe the form of agreement, certificate, or other instrument evidencing any Award under the Program; (e) correct any defect or omission and reconcile any inconsistency in the Program or in any Award hereunder; (f) to design Awards to satisfy requirements to make such Awards tax-advantaged to Participants in any jurisdiction or for any other reason that the Company desires; and (g) make all other determinations and take all other actions as it deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Program; provided, however, that no outstanding Option will be amended to lower the exercise price or will be canceled for the purpose of reissuing such Option to a Participant at a lower exercise price (other than, in both cases, pursuant to Section 5.4) without the approval of the Company's stockholders. The determination of the Committee on matters within its authority shall be conclusive and binding on the Company and all other persons. The Committee shall comply with all applicable laws in administering the Plan. As permitted by law (and subject to Section 3.1 herein), the Committee may delegate its authority as identified herein.
3.2        Authority of the Committee
.  All determinations and decisions made by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Program and all related orders and resolutions of the Board shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all persons, including the Company, its stockholders, directors, Employees, Contractors, Participants, and their estates and beneficiaries.
3.3        Decisions Binding
5
Article 4. Eligibility and Participation
.  Persons eligible to participate in this Program shall include all Employees and Contractors. Directors who are not Employees of the Company shall not be eligible to participate in the Program.
4.1        Eligibility
.  Subject to the provisions of the Program, the Committee may, from time to time, select from all eligible Employees and Contractors those to whom Awards shall be granted and shall determine the nature and amount of each Award.
4.2        Actual Participation
Article 5. Shares Subject to the Program and Maximum Awards
.  Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5.4 herein, the number of Shares hereby reserved for delivery to Participants under the Program shall be eighteen million eight hundred thousand (18,800,000) Shares. No more than one million (1,000,000) Shares reserved for issuance under the Program may be granted in the form of Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units. The Committee shall determine the appropriate methodology for calculating the number of Shares issued pursuant to the Program. The following rules shall apply to grants of such Awards under the Program:
5.1        Number of Shares Available for Grants
: The maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be granted in the form of Options in any one (1) fiscal year to any one (1) Participant shall be one million (1,000,000).
(a)
                           
Options
: The maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be granted in the form of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units in any one (1) fiscal year to any one (1) Participant shall be two hundred thousand (200,000).
(b)
                          
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
.  Shares issued under the Program in connection with Stock Options or Restricted Stock Units may be authorized and unissued Shares or issued Shares held as treasury Shares. Shares issued under the Program in connection with Restricted Stock shall be issued Shares held as treasury Shares; provided, however, that authorized and unissued Shares may be issued in connection with Restricted Stock to the extent that the Committee determines that past services of the Participant constitute adequate consideration for at least the par value thereof.
5.2        Type of Shares
.
5.3        Reuse of Shares
. In the event of the expiration or termination (by reason of forfeiture, expiration, cancellation, surrender, or otherwise) of any Award under the Program, that number of Shares that was subject to the Award but not delivered shall again be available as Awards under the Program.
(a)
                           
General
. In the event that Shares are delivered under the Program as Restricted Stock and are thereafter forfeited or reacquired by the Company
(b)
                          
Restricted Stock
6
pursuant to rights reserved upon the grant thereof, such forfeited or reacquired Shares shall again be available as Awards under the Program.
. Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 5.3(a) or 5.3(b) above, the following Shares shall not be available for reissuance under the Program: (i) Shares which are withheld from any Award or payment under the Program to satisfy tax withholding obligations; (ii) Shares which are surrendered to fulfill tax obligations incurred under the Program; and (iii) Shares which are surrendered in payment of the Option Price upon the exercise of an Option.
(c)
                           
Limitation
.  In the event of any change in corporate capitalization, such as a stock split, or a corporate transaction, such as any merger, consolidation, separation, including a spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of the Company, any reorganization (whether or not such reorganization comes within the definition of such term in Code Section 368) or any partial or complete liquidation of the Company, such adjustment shall be made in the number and class of Shares which may be delivered under Section 5.1, in the number and class of and/or price of Shares subject to outstanding Awards granted under the Program, and in the Award limits set forth in Section 5.1, as shall be determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee, in its sole discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights; provided, however, that the number of Shares subject to any Award shall always be a whole number. In a stock-for-stock acquisition of the Company, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, substitute securities of another issuer for any Shares subject to outstanding Awards.
5.4        Adjustments in Authorized Shares
Article 6. Stock Options
.  Subject to the terms and provisions of the Program, Options may be granted to Participants in such number, and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee. If all or any portion of the exercise price or taxes incurred in connection with the exercise are paid by delivery (or, in the case of payment of taxes, by withholding of Shares) of other Shares of the Company, the Options may provide for the grant of replacement Options.
6.1        Grant of Options
.  Each Option grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Option Price, the duration of the Option, the number of Shares to which the Option pertains, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine. The Award Agreement also shall specify whether the Option is intended to be an ISO or an NQSO.
6.2        Award Agreement
.  The Option Price for each grant of an Option under this Program shall be at least equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the Option is granted.
6.3        Option Price
.  Each Option granted to a Participant on or after February 16, 2006 shall expire at such time, not later than the seventh (7th) anniversary date of its grant, as the Committee shall determine.
6.4        Duration of Options
7
.  Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve, which need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant; provided, however, that each option shall become exercisable over a minimum period of two (2) years measured from the date of grant of the option.
6.5        Exercise of Options
.  Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercised by the delivery of a written notice (or such other form of notice as the Company may specify) of exercise to the Company, setting forth the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is to be exercised, accompanied by full payment for the Shares (or a satisfactory "cashless exercise" notice).
6.6        Payment
The Option Price upon exercise of any Option shall be payable to the Company in full either: (a) in cash or its equivalent; (b) by tendering previously acquired Shares (by either actual delivery or attestation) having an aggregate Fair Market Value at the time of exercise equal to the total Option Price (provided that the Shares which are tendered must have been held by the Participant for at least six (6) months, or such shorter or longer period, if any, as is necessary to avoid variable accounting treatment); (c) by a cashless exercise, as permitted under Federal Reserve Board's Regulation T, subject to applicable securities law restrictions and such procedures and limitations as the Company may specify from time to time, (d) by any other means which the Committee determines to be consistent with the Program's purpose and applicable law, or (e) by a combination of two or more of (a) through (d).
Subject to any governing rules or regulations, including cashless exercise procedures, as soon as practicable after receipt of a notification of exercise and full payment (or a satisfactory "cashless exercise" notice), the Company shall cause to be issued and delivered to the Participant, in certificate form or otherwise, evidence of the Shares purchased under the Option(s).
.  The Committee may impose such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option granted under this Article 6 as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, restrictions under applicable federal securities laws, under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are then listed and/or traded, and under any blue sky or state securities laws applicable to such Shares.
6.7        Restrictions on Share Transferability
.  Each Participant's Option Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the Option following termination of the Participant's employment with the Company or service to the Company as a Contractor. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Options issued pursuant to this Article 6, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
6.8        Termination of Employment or Service
8
.
6.9        Nontransferability of Options
.  No ISO granted under the Program may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Further, all ISOs granted to a Participant under the Program shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant.
(a)
                           
Incentive Stock Options
.  Except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement, no NQSO granted under this Article 6 may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement, all NQSOs granted to a Participant under this Article 6 shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant.
(b)
                          
Nonqualified Stock Options
.  Unless otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement, and notwithstanding any provision in the Program to the contrary (including but not limited to Section 14.2), in the event of a Change in Control in which the Company's stockholders holding Shares receive consideration other than shares of common stock that are registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, the Committee shall have the authority to require that any outstanding Option be surrendered to the Company by a Participant for cancellation by the Company, with the Participant receiving in exchange a cash payment from the Company within ten (10) days of the Change in Control. Such cash payment shall be equal to the number of Shares under Option, multiplied by the excess, if any, of the greater of (i) the highest per Share price offered to stockholders in any transaction whereby the Change in Control takes place, or (ii) the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the Change in Control occurs, over the Option Price.
6.10      Substitution of Cash
Article 7. Restricted Stock
.  Subject to the terms and provisions of the Program, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock to Participants in such amounts as the Committee shall determine.
7.1        Grant of Restricted Stock
.  Each Restricted Stock grant shall be evidenced by a Restricted Stock Award Agreement that shall specify the Period(s) of Restriction, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock granted, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.  The Period of Restriction shall be a minimum of three (3) years measured from the grant date of the Restricted Stock.
7.2        Restricted Stock Agreement
.  Except as provided in this Article 7, the Shares of Restricted Stock granted herein may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated until the end of the applicable Period of Restriction established by the Committee and specified in the Restricted Stock Award Agreement, or upon earlier satisfaction of any other conditions, as specified by the Committee in its sole discretion and set forth in the Restricted Stock Award Agreement. All rights with respect to the Restricted Stock granted to a Participant under the Program shall be available during his or her lifetime only to such Participant.
7.3        Restriction on Transferability
9
.  Subject to Article 9 herein, the Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock granted pursuant to the Program as it may deem advisable including, without limitation, any or all of the following:
7.4        Other Restrictions
A required period of employment or service as a Contractor with the Company, as determined by the Committee, prior to the vesting of Shares of Restricted Stock.
(a)
                           
A requirement that Participants forfeit (or in the case of Shares sold to a Participant, resell to the Company at his or her cost) all or a part of Shares of Restricted Stock in the event of termination of his or her employment or service as a Contractor during the Period of Restriction.
(b)
                          
A prohibition against employment of Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock by any competitor of the Company, against such Participants' dissemination of any secret or confidential information belonging to the Company, or the solicitation by Participants of the Company's employees for employment by another entity.
(c)
                           
Shares of Restricted Stock awarded pursuant to the Program shall be registered in the name of the Participant and, if such Shares are certificated, in the sole discretion of the Committee, may be deposited in a bank designated by the Committee or with the Company. The Committee may require a stock power endorsed in blank with respect to Shares of Restricted Stock whether or not certificated.
Except as otherwise provided in this Article 7, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock grant made under the Program shall become freely transferable (subject to any restrictions under any applicable securities law) by the Participant after the last day of the applicable Period of Restriction.
.  Unless the Committee determines otherwise, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock issued hereunder shall be entitled to exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares during the Period of Restriction.
7.5        Voting Rights
.  Unless the Committee determines otherwise, during the Period of Restriction, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock issued hereunder shall be entitled to regular cash dividends paid with respect to such Shares. The Committee may apply any restrictions to the dividends that the Committee deems appropriate. Without limiting the generality of the preceding sentence, if the grant or vesting of Shares of Restricted Stock  is designed to comply with the requirements of the Performance-Based Exception, the Committee may apply any restrictions it deems appropriate to the payment of dividends declared with respect to such Shares of Restricted Stock, such that the dividends and/or the Shares of Restricted Stock maintain eligibility for the Performance-Based Exception.
7.6        Dividends and Other Distributions
.  Each Restricted Stock Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to vest in previously unvested Shares of Restricted Stock following termination of the Participant's employment with the Company or service to the Company as a Contractor. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion
7.7        Termination of Employment or Service
10
of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Shares of Restricted Stock issued pursuant to the Program, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
Article 8. Restricted Stock Units
.  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Program, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may issue Restricted Stock Units which entitle the Participant to receive the Shares underlying those units following the lapse of specified restrictions (whether based on the achievement of designated performance goals or the satisfaction of specified services or upon the expiration of a designated time period following the vesting of the units).
8.1. Restricted Stock Units Awards
.  Each Restricted Stock Units award shall be evidenced by a Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement that shall specify the vesting restrictions, the number of Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units award, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.  Restricted Stock Units shall vest over a minimum period of three (3) years measured from the grant date of the award.
8.2. Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement
. The Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on the issuance of any Shares under the Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the Program as it may deem advisable including, without limitation, any or all of the following:
8.3. Restrictions
A required period of service with the Company, as determined by the Committee, prior to the issuance of Shares under the Restricted Stock Units award.
(a)
                              
A requirement that the Restricted Stock Units award be forfeited in whole or in part in the event of termination of the Participant's employment or service as a Contractor during the vesting period.
(b)
                             
A prohibition against employment of Participants holding Restricted Stock Units by any competitor of the Company, against such Participants' dissemination of any secret or confidential information belonging to the Company, or the solicitation by Participants of the Company's employees for employment by another entity.
(c)
                              
Except as otherwise provided in this Article 8, Shares subject to Restricted Stock Units under the Program shall be freely transferable (subject to any restrictions under applicable securities law) by the Participant after receipt of such shares.
.  Participants holding Restricted Stock Units issued hereunder shall not have any rights with respect to Shares subject to the award until the award vests and the Shares are issued hereunder.  However, dividend-equivalent units may be paid or credited, either in cash or in actual or phantom Shares, on outstanding Restricted Stock Units awards, subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may deem appropriate.
8.4. Stockholder Rights
11
.  Each Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to vest in previously unvested Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units award following termination of the Participant's employment with the Company or service to the Company as a Contractor.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Restricted Stock Unit awards issued pursuant to the Program, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
8.5. Termination of Employment or Service
Article 9. Performance Measures
Unless and until the Board proposes for stockholder vote and stockholders approve a change in the general performance measures set forth in this Article 9, the attainment of which may determine the degree of payout and/or vesting with respect to Awards to Covered Employees which are designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, the performance measure(s) to be used for purposes of such grants shall be chosen from among:
return measures (including, but not limited to, return on assets, capital, investment, equity or sales);
(i)
                              
earnings per share;
(ii)
                        
net income (before or after taxes) or operating income;
(iii)
                     
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization or operating income before depreciation and amortization;
(iv)
                    
sales or revenue targets;
(v)
                       
market to book value ratio
(vi)
                    
cash flow or free cash flow (cash flow from operations less capital expenditures);
(vii)
                 
market share;
(viii)
              
cost reduction goals;
(ix)
                      
budget comparisons;
(x)
                         
implementation, completion or progress of projects, processes, products or product-lines strategic or critical to the Company's business operations;
(xi)
                         
measures of customer satisfaction;
(xii)
                   
share price (including, but not limited to, growth measures and total shareholder return);
(xiii)
                
working capital;
(xiv)
               
12
economic value added;
(xv)
                  
percentage of sales generated by new products;
(xvi)
               
progress of research and development projects or milestones;
(xvii)
            
growth in sales of products or product-lines;
(xviii)
            
any combination of, or a specified increase in, any of the foregoing; and
(ix)
                         
the formation of joint ventures, research and development collaborations, marketing or customer service collaborations, or the completion of other corporate transactions intended to enhance the Company's revenue or profitability or expand the Company's customer base.
(x)
                         
Subject to the terms of the Program, each of these measures shall be defined by the Committee on a corporation, subsidiary, group or division basis or in comparison with peer group performance, and may include or exclude specified extraordinary items, as determined by the Company's auditors.
The Committee shall have the discretion to adjust the determinations of the degree of attainment of the preestablished performance goals or the size of Awards; provided, however, that Awards which are designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, and which are held by a Covered Employee, may not be adjusted upward in terms of either the degree of goal attainment or size (but the Committee shall retain the discretion to adjust the degree of goal attainment or the size of the Awards downward).
In the event that applicable tax and/or securities laws change to permit Committee discretion to alter the governing performance measures without obtaining stockholder approval of such changes, the Committee shall have sole discretion to make such changes without obtaining stockholder approval. In addition, in the event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to grant Awards that shall not qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, the Committee may make such grants without satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m).
Article 10. Beneficiary Designation
Each Participant under the Program may, from time to time, name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any benefit under the Program is to be paid in case of his or her death before he or she receives any or all of such benefit. Each such designation shall revoke all prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Company, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing with the Company during the Participant's lifetime. In the absence of any such designation, benefits remaining unpaid at the Participant's death shall be paid to the Participant's estate.
Article 11. Deferrals
The Committee may permit or require a Participant to defer such Participant's receipt of the payment of cash or the delivery of Shares that would otherwise be due to such Participant by virtue
13
of the exercise of an Option or the lapse or waiver of restrictions with respect to Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.  If any such deferral election is required or permitted, the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, establish rules and procedures for such payment deferrals which shall be consistent with the requirements of Code Section 409A and the Treasury regulations and rulings promulgated thereunder.
Article 12. Rights of Employees and Contractors
. Nothing in the Program or any Award Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company to terminate at any time any Participant's employment or service to the Company as a Contractor, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company or to provide services to the Company as a Contractor.
12.1      Employment
. No Employee or Contractor shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under this Program, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.
12.2      Participation
Article 13. Change in Control
Except as may otherwise be provided in a Participant's Award Agreement, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, unless otherwise specifically prohibited under applicable laws or by the rules and regulations of any governing governmental agencies or national securities exchanges:
Any and all Options granted hereunder shall become immediately exercisable, and, if granted before May 8, 2002, shall remain exercisable throughout their entire term;
(a)
                           
Any restriction periods and restrictions imposed on Shares of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units that are not performance-based shall lapse;
(b)
                          
The vesting of all performance-based Awards denominated in Shares such as performance-based Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall be accelerated as of the effective date of the Change in Control, and there shall be paid out to Participants within thirty (30) days following the effective date of the Change in Control a pro rata number of Shares based upon an assumed achievement of all relevant targeted performance goals and upon the length of time within the Performance Period(s) which has elapsed prior to the Change in Control; provided, however, that if an Option or Share of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit granted after May 8, 2002 becomes exercisable or vests only after either (i) a minimum fixed period of employment or service (the duration of which is determined by the Committee at the time of the grant of the Award) or (ii) the earlier achievement of a performance-related goal, its exercisability or vesting shall not automatically accelerate in full in accordance with Article 13 (a) or (b) above, but may accelerate if and to the extent provided in the applicable Award Agreement.
(c)
                           
14
Article 14. Amendment, Modification, and Termination
. Subject to the terms of the Program, including Section 14.2, the Board may at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, suspend or terminate the Program in whole or in part.  However, stockholder approval shall be required for any amendment of the Program that (a) materially increases the number of Shares available for issuance under the Program (other than pursuant to Article 5.4), (b) expands the type of awards available under the Program, (c) materially expands the class of participants eligible to receive Awards under the Program, (d) materially extends the term of the Program, (e) materially changes the method of determining the Option Price under the Program or (f) deletes or limits any provision of the Program prohibiting the repricing of Options.  The Committee may amend Awards previously granted under the Program.
14.1      Amendment, Modification, and Termination
. Notwithstanding any provision of the Program or of any Award Agreement to the contrary (but subject to Section 6.10 hereof), no termination, amendment, or modification of the Program or amendment of an Award previously granted under the Program shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously granted under the Program, without the express consent of the Participant holding such Award.
14.2      Awards Previously Granted
Article 15. Compliance with Applicable Law and Withholding
.  The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares under the Program shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Program or any Award Agreement, the following shall apply:
15.1      General
The Company shall have no obligation to issue any Shares under the Program if such issuance would violate any applicable law or any applicable regulation or requirement of any securities exchange or similar entity.
(a)
                           
Prior to the issuance of any Shares under the Program, the Company may require a written statement that the recipient is acquiring the Shares for investment and not for the purpose or with the intention of distributing the Shares and that the recipient will not dispose of them in violation of the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933.
(b)
                          
With respect to any person who is subject to Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, the Committee may, at any time, add such conditions and limitations to any incentive or payment under the Program or implement procedures for the administration of the Program which it deems necessary or desirable to comply with the requirements of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act.
(c)
                           
If, at any time, the Company, determines that the listing, registration, or qualification (or any updating of any such document) of any Award, or the Shares issuable pursuant thereto, is necessary on any securities exchange or under any federal or state securities or blue sky law, or that the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in
(d)
                          
15
connection with, any Award, the issuance of Shares pursuant to any Award, or the removal of any restrictions imposed on Shares subject to an Award, such Award shall not be granted and the Shares shall not be issued or such restrictions shall not be removed, as the case may be, in whole or in part, unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent, or approval shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Company.
.  With respect to Insiders, transactions under this Program are intended to comply with all applicable conditions of Rule 16b-3 or its successors under the 1934 Act. To the extent any provision of the Program or action by the Committee or the Board fails to so comply, it shall be deemed null and void, to the extent permitted by law and deemed advisable by the Board.
15.2      Securities Law Compliance
.  The Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes, domestic or foreign, required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of this Program.
15.3      Tax Withholding
.  Awards payable in Shares may provide that with respect to withholding required upon any taxable event arising thereunder, Participants may elect to satisfy the withholding requirement, in whole or in part, by having the Company withhold Shares to satisfy their withholding tax obligations; provided that Participants may only elect to have Shares withheld having a Fair Market Value on the date the tax is to be determined equal to or less than the minimum withholding tax which could be imposed on the transaction. All elections shall be irrevocable, made in writing, signed by the Participant, and shall be subject to any restrictions or limitations, including prior Committee approval, that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate.
15.4      Share Withholding
Article 16. Indemnification
Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Program and against and from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
Article 17. Successors
All obligations of the Company under the Program with respect to Awards granted hereunder shall, to the extent legally permissible, be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the
16
existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
Article 18. Legal Construction
.  Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.
18.1      Gender and Number
.  In the event any provision of the Program shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Program, and the Program shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
18.2      Severability
.  To the extent not preempted by federal law, the Program, and all Award or other agreements hereunder, shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the state of Delaware without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws.
18.3      Governing Law
17

Exhibit 10.2
1.01. 
Purpose
The Edwards Lifesciences Corporation 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan for United States Employees is intended to provide a method whereby employees of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (the "Company") and its participating subsidiary companies authorized by the Committee (or an officer designated by the Committee pursuant to Section 9.02) to extend the benefits of the Plan to their Eligible Employees will have an opportunity to acquire a proprietary interest in the Company through the purchase of shares of the Company's common stock. It is the intention of the Company to have the Plan qualify as an "employee stock purchase plan" under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The provisions of the Plan shall be construed so as to extend and limit participation in a manner consistent with the requirements of Code Section 423.
The Plan was initially adopted by the Board on February 8, 2001, and subsequently approved by the stockholders on May 10, 2001.  The Plan was subsequently amended and restated by the Board on February 20, 2003, September 13, 2005 and on February 15, 2007.
2.01. 
Base Pay
"Base Pay" shall mean regular straight-time earnings plus commissions and payments in lieu of regular earnings (such as vacation, sick pay and holiday pay). In the case of a part-time hourly employee, such employee's base pay during an Offering shall be determined by multiplying such employee's hourly rate of pay by the number of regularly scheduled hours of work for such employee during such Offering.
2.02. 
Change in Control
"Change in Control"
of the Company shall mean the occurrence of any one of the following events:
(a)
                           
Any "Person", as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act (other than the Company, any corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company, and any trustee or
other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or such proportionately owned corporation), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing thirty percent (30%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
(b)
                          
During any period of not more than twenty-four (24) months, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors of the Company, and any new director (other than a director designated by a Personwho has entered into an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction described in Sections 2.02(a), 2.02(c), or 2.02(d) of this Section 2.02) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof; or
(c)
                           
The consummation of a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other entity, other than: (i) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than sixty percent (60%) of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation; or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no Person acquires more than thirty percent (30%) of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
(d)
                          
The Company's stockholders approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company, or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets (or any transaction having a similar effect).
2.03. 
Code
"Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
2.04. 
Committee
"Committee" shall mean the individuals appointed by the Company to administer the Plan as described in Article IX.
2.05. 
Company
"Company" shall mean Edwards Lifesciences Corporation.
2
2.06. 
Corporate Affiliate
"Corporate Affiliate" shall mean any parent or subsidiary corporation or limited liability company of the Company (as determined in accordance with Code section 424), whether now existing or subsequently established.
2.07. 
Eligible Employee
"Eligible Employee" means, unless local laws prohibit such employee's participation in the Plan, any regular employee of a Participating Company who is scheduled to work 20 or more hours per week.
2.08. 
Enrollment Period
"Enrollment Period" shall mean with respect to any Offering, the period designated by the Committee prior to such Offering during which Eligible Employees may authorize payroll deductions through a Subscription.  Unless the Committee determines otherwise, the Enrollment Period with respect to any Offering shall end on the twenty-fifth day of the month immediately preceding the Offering Commencement Date and any Subscription received after such date shall be deemed to be an enrollment in the next following Offering.
2.09. 
Exchange Act
"Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or any successor thereto.
2.10. 
Fair Market Value
The "Fair Market Value" of a share of Stock on a given day shall be determined as follows:  (i) if the Stock is listed on any established stock exchange or a national market system (a) for any date of determination except the Purchase Date, Fair Market Value shall be the closing sales price for such stock (or the closing bid, if no sale is reported) as quoted on such exchange or system for the last market trading day prior to the time of determination, as reported in or such other source as the Committee deems reliable; (b) for the Purchase Date, Fair Market Value shall be the closing sales price for such stock (or the closing bid, if no sale is reported) as quoted on such exchange or system on the Purchase Date, as reported in or such other source as the Committee deems reliable, or (ii) in the absence of an established market for the Stock, the Fair Market Value thereof shall be determined in good faith by the Committee.
The Wall Street Journal
The Wall Street Journal
2.11. 
Offering
"Offering" shall mean the quarterly offering of the Company's Stock, the duration of which shall not exceed twenty seven (27) months.
3
2.12. 
Offering Commencement Date
"Offering Commencement Date" shall mean June 1, 2001 and, unless determined otherwise by the Committee, the first day of each calendar quarter thereafter.
2.13. 
Offering End Date
"Offering End Date" shall mean, with respect to each Offering beginning prior to July 1, 2007, the first to occur of the day preceding the second annual anniversary of the Offering Commencement Date or the day preceding July 1, 2007, unless determined otherwise by the Committee prior to the Offering Commencement Date or such date as determined pursuant to Section 6.04.  "Offering End Date" shall mean, with respect to each Offering beginning on or after July 1, 2007, the day preceding the first annual anniversary of the Offering Commencement Date, unless determined otherwise by the Committee prior to the Offering Commencement Date or such date as determined pursuant to Section 6.04.
2.14. 
Participant
"Participant" shall mean an Eligible Employee who has elected to participate in an Offering by entering a Subscription during the Enrollment Period for such Offering.
2.15. 
Participating Company
"Participating Company" shall mean the Company and each Corporate Affiliate as may be authorized from time to time by the Committee to extend the benefits of the Plan to their Eligible Employees.
2.16. 
Plan
"Plan" shall mean the Edwards Lifesciences Corporation 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan for United States Employees, as amended from time to time.
2.17. 
Purchase Date
"Purchase Date" shall mean with respect to any Offering, the last day of each calendar quarter (or such other dates determined by the Committee prior to the Offering Commencement Date or pursuant to Section 6.04) during the period beginning with the Offering Commencement Date for such Offering and ending with the Offering End Date; provided, however, if any such day is not a business day, the Purchase Date shall be the next preceding business date on which shares of Stock are traded.
2.18. 
Stock
"Stock" shall mean the common stock, par value $1.00, of the Company.
4
2.19. 
Subscription
"Subscription" shall mean an Eligible Employee's authorization for payroll deductions made in the form and manner specified by the Committee (which may include enrollment by submitting forms, by voice response, internet access or other electronic means).  Unless withdrawn earlier in accordance with Section 6.02, each Subscription shall be in effect for the duration of the Offering to which it applies.  No more than one Subscription may be in effect for an Eligible Employee during any calendar quarter.
3.01. 
Initial Eligibility
Any individual who is an Eligible Employee on an Offering Commencement Date shall be eligible to participate in the Offering commencing on such date, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
3.02. 
Leave of Absence
For purposes of participation in the Plan, a Participant on a leave of absence shall be deemed to be an employee for a period of up to 90 days or, if longer, during the period the Participant's right to reemployment is guaranteed by statute or contract.  If the leave of absence is paid, deductions authorized under any Subscription in effect at the time the leave began will continue.  If the leave of absence is unpaid, no deductions or contributions will be permitted during the leave.  If such a Participant returns to active status within 90 days or the guaranteed reemployment period, as applicable, payroll deductions under the Subscription in effect at the time the leave began will automatically begin again upon the Participant's return to active status, unless the Subscription has expired.  If the Participant does not return to active status within 90 days or the guaranteed reemployment period, as applicable, the Participant shall be treated as having terminated employment for all purposes of the Plan.  If such terminated Participant later returns to active employment as an Eligible Employee or if a Participant returns to active employment as an Eligible Employee after the Subscription has expired, such individual will be treated as a new employee and will be eligible to participate in Offerings commencing after his or her reemployment date by filing a Subscription during the applicable Enrollment Period for such Offering.
3.03. 
Restrictions on Participation
Notwithstanding any provisions of the Plan to the contrary, no Eligible Employee shall be granted a right to purchase Stock:
if, immediately after the grant, such employee would own Stock, and/or hold outstanding options to purchase Stock, possessing 5% or more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of the Company's
(a)
                                 
5
stock (for purposes of this paragraph, the rules of Section 424(d) of the Code shall apply in determining stock ownership of any employee); or
which permits the employee's rights to purchase Stock underallemployee stock purchase plans of the Company to accrue at a rate which exceeds $25,000in Fair Market Value of the Stock (determined at the time such right to purchase Stock is granted) for each calendar year in which such right is outstanding.
(b)
                                
Further, with respect to any Offering, in no event shall an employee be granted a right to purchase in excess of 10,000 shares of Stock, subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 10.03.
3.04. 
Commencement of Participation
An Eligible Employee may become a Participant in any Offering by entering a Subscription during the Enrollment Period for such Offering. Payroll deductions for such Offering shall commence on the applicable Offering Commencement Date and shall end on the applicable Offering End Date unless withdrawn by the Participant or sooner terminated in accordance with Article VII.  Only one Subscription may be in effect with respect to any Participant at any one time.
3.05. 
Participation After Rehire
An Eligible Employee's Subscription will automatically terminate on the date he or she is no longer an employee of any Participating Company.  If the Eligible Employee terminates employment with a Subscription in effect with respect to an Offering and is rehired prior to the Offering End Date for that Offering, the Subscription will not be reinstated and the Eligible Employee will not be allowed to again make payroll deductions under such Offering.  The Eligible Employee may elect to participate in Offerings commencing after his or her reemployment date by entering a Subscription during the applicable Enrollment Period for such Offering.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Eligible Employee's transfer from one Participating Company to another shall not terminate such Eligible Employee's Subscription.
3.06. 
International Employees/International Transfers
Eligible Employees who transfer to a Participating Company from a subsidiary of the Company participating in the Company's stock purchase plan for international employees may not participate in Offerings which had an Offering Commencement Date prior to such transfer.  Such Eligible Employee may participate in Offerings commencing after such transfer by entering a Subscription during the applicable Enrollment Period for such Offering.
A Participant who transfers from a Participating Company to either a Corporate Affiliate that is not a Participating Company or a location that, by local law, prohibits
6
participation in any of the Company's stock purchase plans will be treated as a terminated Participant under this Plan.
4.01. 
Quarterly Offerings
The Plan commenced with an Offering beginning on June 1, 2001 and, unless determined otherwise by the Committee, will continue in operation with a new Offering commencing on the first day of each calendar quarter thereafter. Eligible Employees may not have in effect more than one Subscription at a time.
Participants may subscribe to any Offering by entering a Subscription during the Enrollment Period for such Offering in such manner as the Committee may prescribe (which may include enrollment by submitting forms, by voice response, internet access or other electronic means).
A Subscription that is in effect on an Offering End Date will automatically be deemed to be a Subscription for the Offering that commences immediately following such Offering End Date, provided that the Participant is still an Eligible Employee and has not withdrawn the Subscription.  Under the foregoing automatic enrollment provisions, payroll deductions will continue at the level in effect immediately prior to the new Offering Commencement Date, unless changed in advance by the Participant in accordance with Section 5.03.
4.02. 
Purchase Price
The purchase price per share of Stock under each Offering shall be the lower of:
85% of the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the Offering Commencement Date; or
(a)
                                 
85% of the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the Purchase Date.
(b)
                                
Such purchase price may only be paid with accumulated payroll deductions in accordance with Article V.
7
5.01. 
Amount of Deduction
An Eligible Employee's Subscription shall authorize payroll deductions at a rate, in whole percentages, of no less than 1% and no more than 12% of Base Pay on each payday that the Subscription is in effect.
5.02. 
Participant's Account
All payroll deductions made with respect to a Participant shall be credited to his or her recordkeeping account under the Plan.  A Participant may not make any separate cash payment into such account.  No interest will accrue or be paid on any amount withheld from a Participant's pay under the Plan or credited to the Participant's account.  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 5.02, all amounts in a Participant's account will be used to purchase whole shares of Stock and no cash refunds shall be made from such account.  Any amounts that are insufficient to purchase whole shares shall be credited to the Participant's account, and added to any fractional amounts resulting on subsequent Purchase Dates.  Upon liquidation or other closing of a Participant's account, any fractional amounts shall be paid in cash to the Participant based on the then current Fair Market Value of the Stock.  In addition, any amounts that are withheld but unable to be applied to the purchase of Stock because of the limitations of Section 3.03 shall be returned to the Participant without interest and will not be used to purchase shares with respect to any other Offering under the Plan.
5.03. 
Changes in Payroll Deductions
During an Offering, a Participant may change his or her level of payroll deduction with respect to such Offering within the limits described in Section 5.01 in accordance with procedures established by the Committee (including, without limitation, rules relating to the frequency of such changes); provided, however, if the Participant reduces his or her payroll deductions to zero, it shall be deemed to be a withdrawal of the Subscription and the Participant may not thereafter participate in such Offering but must wait until the next Offering to resubscribe to the Plan.  Any such discontinuance or change in level shall be effective as soon as administratively practicable.
6.01. 
Automatic Exercise
A Participant's right to purchase Stock with respect to any Offering will be automatically exercised on each Purchase Date for the Offering.  The right to purchase Stock will be exercised by using the accumulated payroll deductions in the Participant's account as of each such Purchase Date to purchase the number of whole shares of Stock that may
8
be purchased at the purchase price on such date, determined in accordance with Section 4.02.
6.02. 
Withdrawal From Offering
A Participant may not withdraw the accumulated payroll deductions in his or her account during an Offering.  If the Participant withdraws his or her Subscription with respect to any Offering, the accumulated payroll deductions in the Participant's account at the time the Subscription is withdrawn will be used to purchase shares of Stock at the next Purchase Date for the Offering to which the Subscription related, in accordance with Section 6.01.
6.03. 
Delivery of Stock
Stock purchases under the Plan will be held in an account in the Participant's name in uncertificated form unless certification is requested by the Participant.  Furthermore, Stock to be delivered to a Participant under the Plan will be registered in the name of the Participant.
6.04. 
Change in Control
If pursuant to a Change in Control rights to purchase Stock are not assumed or otherwise continued in full force and effect, then each right to purchase Stock under each Offering in effect at the time of the Change in Control shall automatically be exercised, immediately prior to the effective date of any Change in Control, by applying the payroll deductions of each Participant for the Offering in which such Change in Control occurs to the purchase of whole shares of Stock at a purchase price per share equal to eighty-five percent (85%) of the lower of (i) the Fair Market Value per share of Stock on the start date of the applicable Offering or (ii) the Fair Market Value per share of Stock immediately prior to the effective date of such Change in Control.
7.01. 
Effect on Subsequent Participation
The Committee shall have the authority to decide the Participant's eligibility to participate in any succeeding Offering if Participant withdraws from any Offering.
9
7.02. 
Termination of Employment
Subject to the following provisions of this Section 7.02, upon termination of the Participant's employment for any reason that results in the Participant not qualifying as an Eligible Employee, any Subscription then in effect will be deemed to have been withdrawn and any payroll deductions credited to the Participant's account will be used to purchase Stock on the next Purchase Date for the Offering with respect to which such deductions relate.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant has a Subscription in effect on the Participant's termination of employment, payroll deductions (at the rate in effect on the termination date) shall continue to be made from Base Pay earned prior to termination of employment, if any, that is paid to the Participant after such termination of employment and before the earlier of (i) the three-month anniversary of such termination of employment, or (ii) the Offering End Date of such Offering.  Any such payroll deduction shall be used to purchase Stock on the next Purchase Date for the Offering after the deduction is made.
8.01. 
Maximum Shares
The maximum number of shares which may be issued under the Plan, subject to adjustment upon changes in capitalization of the Company as provided in Section 10.03, shall be 2,300,000 shares. If the total number of shares for which rights to purchase Stock are exercised on any Purchase Date exceeds the maximum number of shares available for issuance, the Company shall make a pro rata allocation of the shares available for delivery and distribution in as nearly a uniform manner as shall be practicable and as it shall determine to be equitable, and the balance of payroll deductions credited to the account of each Participant under the Plan shall be returned to him as promptly as possible.
8.02. 
Participant's Interest in Rights to Purchase Stock
The Participant will have no interest in Stock covered by a right to purchase Stock under the Plan until such right has been exercised.
9.01. 
Appointment of Committee
The Company's Board of Directors shall appoint a Committee to administer the Plan. No member of the Committee who is not an Eligible Employee shall be eligible to purchase Stock under the Plan.
10
9.02. 
Authority of Committee
Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have plenary authority in its discretion to interpret and construe any and all provisions of the Plan, to adopt rules and regulations for administering the Planand to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for administering the Plan. The Committee's determination on the foregoing matters shall be conclusive.  The Committee shall also have the authority to determine if and when the employees of Corporate Affiliates organized or acquired after the Effective Date shall be eligible for participation in the Plan.  The Committee may delegate to an officer its authority under this Section 9.02 to determine if and when the employees of a Corporate Affiliate shall be eligible or ineligible for participation in the Plan.
,
9.03. 
Rules Governing the Administration of the Committee
The Company's Board of Directors may from time to time appoint members of the Committee in substitution for or in addition to members previously appointed and may fill vacancies, however caused, in the Committee. The Committee may select one of its members as its Chairman and shall hold its meetings at such times and places as it shall deem advisable and may hold telephonic meetings. A majority of its members shall constitute a quorum. All determinations of the Committee shall be made by a majority of its members. The Committee may correct any defect or omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan, in the manner and to the extent it shall deem desirable. Any decision or determination reduced to writing and signed by a majority of the members of the Committee shall be as fully effective as if it had been made by a majority vote at a meeting duly called and held. The Committee may appoint a secretary and shall make such rules and regulations for the conduct of its business as it shall deem advisable.
9.04. 
Statements
Each Participant shall receive a statement of his account showing the number of shares of Stock held and the amount of cash credited to such account.  Such statements will be provided as soon as administratively feasible following the end of each calendar quarter.
10.01. 
Transferability
Neither payroll deductions credited to a Participant's account nor any rights with regard to the exercise of a right to purchase Stock or to receive Stock under the Plan may be assigned, transferred, pledged, or otherwise disposed of in any way by the Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Any such attempted assignment, transfer, pledge or other disposition shall be without effect.  During a
11
s lifetime, rights to purchase Stock that are held by such Participant shall be exercisable only by that Participant.
Participant
'
10.02. 
Use of Funds
All payroll deductions received or held by the Participating Company under this Plan may be used by the Participating Company for any corporate purpose and the Participating Company shall not be obligated to segregate such payroll deductions.
10.03. 
Adjustment Upon Changes in Capitalization
In the event of a stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reclassification or combination of shares, merger, spin-off or similar event, the Committee shall adjust equitably (a) the number and class of shares or other securities that are reserved for sale under the Plan, (b) the number and class of shares or other securities that are subject to outstanding rights to purchase Stock, (c) the maximum number of shares of Stock that can be purchased by a Participant with respect to any Offering and (d) the appropriate market value and other price determinations applicable to rights to purchase Stock.  The Committee shall make all determinations under this Section 10.03, and all such determinations shall be conclusive and binding.
10.04. 
Amendment and Termination
The Company's Board of Directors shall have complete power and authority to terminate or amend the Plan at any time and for any reason; provided, however, that the Company's Board of Directors shall not, without the approval of the stockholders of the Company in accordance with Section 423 of the Code, (i) increase the maximum number of shares which may be issued under any Offering (except pursuant to Section 10.03); (ii) amend the requirements as to the class of employees eligible to purchase stock under the Plan; or (iii) permit members of the Committee who are not Eligible Employees to purchase stock under the Plan.
Upon termination of the Plan, the date of termination shall be considered a Purchase Date, and any cash remaining in Participant accounts will be applied to the purchase of Stock, unless determined otherwise by the Company's Board of Directors.  Upon termination of the Plan, the Company's Board of Directors shall have authority to establish administrative procedures regarding the exercise of outstanding rights to purchase Stock or to determine that such rights shall not be exercised.
10.05. 
Effective Date
This Plan became effective as of June 1, 2001.
10.06. 
No Employment Rights
The Plan does not, directly or indirectly, create in any employee or class of employees any right with respect to continuation of employment with the Company or any
12
Corporate Affiliate, and it shall not be deemed to interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any Corporate Affiliate employing such person to terminate, or otherwise modify, an employee's employment at any time.
10.07. 
Effect of Plan
The provisions of the Plan shall, in accordance with its terms, be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, all successors of each employee participating in the Plan, including, without limitation, such employee's estate and the executors, administrators or trustees thereof, heirs and legatees, and any receiver, trustee in bankruptcy or representative of creditors of such employee.
10.08. 
Governing Law
The law of the State of California will govern all matters relating to this Plan except to the extent it is superseded by the laws of the United States.
13
APPENDIX A
LIST OF PARTICIPATING COMPANIES
Following is a list of Participating Companies as of February 20, 2003:
Edwards Lifesciences Corporation Edwards Lifesciences International Assignments Inc. Edwards Lifesciences LLC Edwards Lifesciences (U.S.) Inc. Edwards Lifesciences Research Medical, Inc.

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
i
Article 1.               Establishment, Objectives, and Duration
1.1.
                           
Establishment of the Program.
  Edwards Lifesciences Corporation, a Delaware corporation (hereinafter referred to as the "Company"), hereby amends and restates the incentive compensation plan formerly known as the Edwards Lifesciences Corporation Nonemployee Directors  and Consultants Stock Incentive Program (hereinafter, as amended and restated, referred to as the "Program"), as set forth in this document, effective as of May 10, 2007.  The Program was previously amended and restated in March 2002, November 2002, May 2003, February 19, 2004 and March 4, 2005.  Prior to the amendment and restatement on March 4, 2005, consultants were eligible to participate in the Program.  The Program permits the grant of Nonqualified Stock Options, Stock Issuances, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units and Stock Appreciation Rights.
The Program became effective as of April 1, 2000 (the "Effective Date") and shall remain in effect as provided in Section 1.3 hereof.
1.2.
                           
Objectives of the Program.
  The objectives of the Program are to optimize the profitability and growth of the Company through long-term incentives which are consistent with the Company's goals and which link the personal interests of Participants to those of the Company's stockholders.  The Program is further intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of Participants who make significant contributions to the Company's success and to allow Participants to share in the success of the Company.
1.3.
                           
Duration of the Program.
  The Program shall commence on the Effective Date, as described in Section 1.1 hereof, and shall remain in effect, subject to the right of the Board to amend or terminate the Program at any time pursuant to Article 16 hereof, until all Shares subject to it shall have been purchased or acquired according to the Program's provisions.  However, in no event may an Award be granted under the Program on or after April 1, 2010.
Article 2.               Definitions
Whenever used in the Program, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word shall be capitalized:
1
means the fixed annual fee of a Nonemployee Director in effect on the first day of the year in which such Annual Retainer is payable for services to be rendered as a Nonemployee Director of the Company. The Annual Retainer does not include meeting or chairmanship fees.
2.1.         "Annual Retainer"
2.2.
                           
"Award"
means, individually or collectively, a grant under this Program of Nonqualified Stock Options, Stock Issuances, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, or Stock Appreciation Rights.
2.3.
                           
"Award Agreement"
means an agreement entered into by the Company and each Participant setting forth the terms and provisions applicable to Awards granted under this Program.
2.4.
                           
"Board"
or
"Board of Directors"
means the Board of Directors of the Company.
2.5.
                           
"Change in Control"
of the Company shall mean the occurrence of any one of the following events:
(a)
                                 
Any "Person", as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act (other than the Company, any corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company, and any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or such proportionately owned corporation), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing thirty percent (30%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
(b)
                                
During any period of not more than twenty-four (24) months, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors of the Company, and any new director (other than a director designated by a Personwho has entered into an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction described in Sections 2.5(a), 2.5(c), or 2.5(d) of this Section 2.5) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof; or
(c)
                                 
The consummation of a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other entity, other than: (i) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by
2
remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than sixty percent (60%) of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation; or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no Person acquires more than thirty percent (30%) of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
(d)
                                
The Company's stockholders approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company, or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets (or any transaction having a similar effect.
2.6.
                           
"Code"
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
2.7.
                           
"Committee"
means the Compensation and Governance Committee and any successor thereto or any other committee appointed by the Board to administer Awards to Participants, as specified in Article 3 herein.
2.8.
                           
"Company"
means Edwards Lifesciences Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and any successor thereto as provided in Article 19 herein.
2.9.
                           
"Disability"
shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Participant's governing long-term disability plan, or if no such plan exists, at the discretion of the Board.
2.10.
                    
"Effective Date"
shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 1.1 hereof.
2.11.
                    
"Employee"
means an employee of the Company or of a Subsidiary of the Company.
2.12.
                    
"Exchange Act"
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or any successor act thereto.
2.13.
                    
"Fair Market Value"
means, at any date, the closing sale price on the principal securities exchange on which the Shares are traded on the last previous day on which a sale was reported.
2.14.
                    
"Nonemployee Director"
means a member of the Company's Board who is not an Employee of the Company.
2.15.
                    
"Nonqualified Stock Option"
or
"Option"
means an option to purchase Shares granted under Article 6 or Article 11 herein and which is not intended to meet the requirements of Code Section 422.
3
2.16.
                    
"Option Price"
means the price at which a Share may be purchased by a Participant pursuant to an Option.
2.17.
                    
"Participant"
means a Nonemployee Director who has been selected to receive an Award or who has outstanding an Award granted under the Program.
2.18.
                    
"Period of Restriction"
means the period during which the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock is limited in some way (based on the passage of time, the achievement of performance goals, or upon the occurrence of other events as determined by the Committee, in its discretion), and the Shares are subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, as provided in Article 8 herein.
2.19.
                    
"Restricted Stock"
means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Article 8 herein.
2.20.
                    
"Restricted Stock Unit
" means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Article 9 herein.
2.21.
                    
"Shares"
means the shares of common stock of the Company.
2.22.
                    
"Stock Appreciation Right"
means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Article 10 herein.
2.23.
                    
"Stock Issuance"
means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Article 7 herein.
2.24.
                    
"Subsidiary"
means any business, whether or not incorporated, in which the Company beneficially owns, directly or indirectly through another entity or entities, securities or interests representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the voting securities or voting interests of such business.
Article 3.               Administration
3.1.
                           
General.
  The Program shall be administered by the Compensation and Planning Committee of the Board, or by any other Committee appointed by the Board. Any Committee administering the Program shall be comprised entirely of directors. The members of the Committee shall be appointed from time to time by and shall serve at the sole discretion of the Board.  Members of the Committee may participate in the Program.  The Committee shall have the authority to delegate administrative duties to officers, Employees, or directors of the Company; provided that the Committee shall not be able to delegate its authority with respect to granting Awards.
3.2.
                           
Authority of the Committee.
  Except as limited by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the Company, and subject to the provisions of
4
the Program, the Committee shall have the authority to: (a) interpret the provisions of the Program, and prescribe, amend, and rescind rules and procedures relating to the Program; (b) grant Awards under the Program, in such forms and amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate, including, without limitation, Awards which are made in combination with or in tandem with other Awards (whether or not contemporaneously granted) or compensation or in lieu of current or deferred compensation; (c) subject to Article 16, modify the terms of, cancel and reissue, or repurchase outstanding Awards; (d) prescribe the form of agreement, certificate or other instrument evidencing any Award under the Program; (e) correct any defect or omission and reconcile any inconsistency in the Program or in any Award hereunder; (f) design Awards to satisfy requirements to make such Awards tax-advantaged to Participants in any jurisdiction or for any other reason that the Company desires; and (g) make all other determinations and take all other actions as it deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Program; provided, however, that except for adjustments made pursuant to Section 5.4, no outstanding Option will be amended or cancelled in connection with any program that is considered a repricing of the Option under the rules of the principal securities exchange on which the Shares are traded without stockholder approval.  The determination of the Committee on matters within its authority shall be conclusive and binding on the Company and all other persons. The Committee shall comply with all applicable laws in administering the Plan.  As permitted by law (and subject to Section 3.1 herein), the Committee may delegate its authority as identified herein.
3.3.
                           
Decisions Binding.
  All determinations and decisions made by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Program and all related orders and resolutions of the Board shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons, including the Company, its stockholders, directors, Participants, and their estates and beneficiaries.
Article 4.               Eligibility and Participation
4.1.
                           
Eligibility.
  Persons eligible to participate in this Program shall be all Nonemployee Directors.
4.2.
                           
Actual Participation.
  Subject to the provisions of the Program, the Committee may, from time to time, select from all eligible Nonemployee Directors those to whom Awards shall be granted and shall determine the nature and amount of each Award.
Article 5.               Shares Subject to the Program
5.1.
                           
Number of Shares Available for Grants.
  Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5.4 herein, the number of Shares hereby reserved for delivery to
5
Participants under the Program shall be six hundred thousand (600,000) Shares.  Subject to the restrictions for Nonemployee Directors set forth in Article 11, the Committee shall determine the appropriate methodology for calculating the number of Shares issued pursuant to the Program.
5.2.
                           
Type of Shares.
  Shares issued under the Program in connection with Options may be authorized and unissued Shares or issued Shares held as treasury Shares.  Shares issued under the Program in connection with Restricted Stock shall be issued Shares held as treasury Shares; provided, however, that authorized and unissued Shares may be issued in connection with Restricted Stock to the extent that the Committee determines that past services of the Participant constitute adequate consideration for at least the par value thereof.
5.3.
                           
Reuse of Shares.
(a)
                                 
General.
  In the event of the exercise or termination (by reason of forfeiture, expiration, cancellation, surrender or otherwise) of any Award under the Program, that number of Shares that was subject to the Award but not delivered shall again be available as Awards under the Program.
(b)
                                
Restricted Stock.
  In the event that Shares are delivered under the Program as Restricted Stock and are thereafter forfeited or reacquired by the Company pursuant to rights reserved upon the grant thereof, such forfeited or reacquired Shares shall again be available as Awards under the Program.
5.4.
                           
Adjustments in Authorized Shares.
  In the event of any change in corporate capitalization, such as a stock split, or a corporate transaction, such as any merger, consolidation, separation, including a spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of the Company, any reorganization (whether or not such reorganization comes within the definition of such term in Code Section 368) or any partial or complete liquidation of the Company, such adjustment shall be made in the number and class of Shares which may be delivered under Section 5.1, in the number and class of and/or price of Shares subject to outstanding Awards granted under the Program and in the number and/or class of Shares subject to Awards to be granted to Nonemployee Directors under Article 11, as shall be determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Board, in its sole discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights; provided, however, that the number of Shares subject to any Award shall always be a whole number.  In a stock-for-stock acquisition of the Company, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, substitute securities of another issuer for any Shares subject to outstanding Awards.
6
Article 6.               Stock Options
6.1.
                           
Grant of Options.
(a)
                                 
Subject to the terms and provisions of the Program, Options may be granted in such number, and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee.
(b)
                                
If all or any portion of the exercise price or taxes incurred in connection with the exercise are paid by delivery (or, in the case of payment of taxes, by withholding of Shares) of other Shares of the Company, a Participant's Options may provide for the grant of replacement Options.  All Options under the Program shall be granted in the form of nonqualified stock options as no Option under the Program may be granted in the form of an incentive stock option as defined under the provisions of Code Section 422.
6.2.
                           
Award Agreement.
  Each Option grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Option Price, the duration of the Option, the number of Shares to which the Option pertains, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.
6.3.
                           
Option Price.
  The Option Price for each grant of an Option under this Program shall be at least equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the Option is granted.
6.4.
                           
Duration of Options.
  Each Option granted to a Participant shall expire at such time, not later than the tenth (10
th
) anniversary date of its grant, as the Committee shall determine; provided, however, that an Option may have such shorter or longer term as the Committee shall deem necessary to comply with applicable federal, state, local or, if applicable, foreign law, or, if the Committee so determines, to qualify for favorable tax treatment.  Unless the Committee determines otherwise, the term of each Option granted to a Participant after May 14, 2003, shall expire on the seventh (7
th
) anniversary date of its grant, subject to such provisions for earlier expiration as the Committee may specify in accordance with Section 6.8 (relating to termination of directorship) or otherwise.
6.5.
                           
Exercise of Options.
  Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve, which need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant.
6.6.
                           
Payment.
  Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercised by the delivery of a written notice of exercise (or such other form of notice as the Company may specify) to the Company, setting forth the number of Shares
7
with respect to which the Option is to be exercised, accompanied by full payment for the Shares (or a satisfactory "cashless exercise" notice).
The Option Price upon exercise of any Option shall be payable to the Company in full either: (a) in cash or its equivalent; (b) by tendering previously acquired Shares (by either actual delivery or attestation) having an aggregate Fair Market Value at the time of exercise equal to the total Option Price (provided that the Shares which are tendered must have been held by the Participant for at least six (6) months, or such shorter or longer period, if any, as is necessary to avoid variable accounting treatment); (c) by a cashless exercise as permitted under Federal Reserve Board's Regulation T, subject to applicable securities law restrictions and such procedures and limitations as the Company may specify from time to time; (d) by any other means which the Board determines to be consistent with the Program's purpose and applicable law; or (e) by a combination of two or more of (a) through (d).
Subject to any governing rules or regulations, including cashless exercise procedures, as soon as practicable after receipt of a notification of exercise and full payment (or a satisfactory "cashless exercise" notice), the Company shall cause to be issued and delivered to the Participant, in certificate form or otherwise, evidence of the Shares purchased under the Option(s).
6.7.
                           
Restrictions on Share Transferability.
  The Committee may impose such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option granted under this Article 6 as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, restrictions under applicable federal securities laws, under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are then listed and/or traded, and under any blue sky or state securities laws applicable to such Shares.
6.8.
                           
Termination of Directorship.
  Each Participant's Option Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the Option following termination of the Participant's service to the Company as a Nonemployee Director.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Options issued pursuant to this Article 6, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
6.9.
                           
Nontransferability of Options.
  Except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement, no Option granted under this Article 6 may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement, all Options granted to a Participant under this Article 6 shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant.
8
6.10.
                    
Substitution of Cash.
  Unless otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement, and notwithstanding any provision in the Program to the contrary (including but not limited to Section 16.3), in the event of a Change in Control in which the Company's stockholders holding Shares receive consideration other than shares of common stock that are registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, the Committee shall have the authority to require that any outstanding Option be surrendered to the Company by a Participant for cancellation by the Company, with the Participant receiving in exchange a cash payment from the Company within ten (10) days of the Change in Control.  Such cash payment shall be equal to the number of Shares under Option, multiplied by the excess, if any, of the greater of (i) the highest per Share price offered to stockholders in any transaction whereby the Change in Control takes place, or (ii) the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the Change in Control occurs, over the Option Price.
Article 7.               Stock Issuances
7.1.
                           
Stock Issuance Awards.
  Subject to the terms and provisions of the Program, the Committee may issue Shares as fully vested shares ("Stock Issuances") in such number and upon such terms as shall be determined by the Committee.
7.2.
                           
Consideration.
  A Stock Issuance may be awarded in consideration for cash, past services rendered to the Company or an Affiliate or for such other consideration as determined by the Committee.
Article 8.               Restricted Stock
8.1.
                           
Restricted Stock Awards.
  Subject to the terms and provisions of the Program, the Committee may issue Shares subject to retention and transfer restrictions ("Restricted Stock") as shall be determined by the Committee.
8.2.
                           
Restricted Stock Award Agreement.
  Each Restricted Stock grant shall be evidenced by a Restricted Stock Award Agreement that shall specify the Period(s) of Restriction, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock granted, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.
8.3.
                           
Restriction on Transferability.
  Except as provided in this Article 8, the Shares of Restricted Stock granted herein may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated until the end of the applicable Period of Restriction established by the Committee and specified in the Restricted Stock Award Agreement, or upon earlier satisfaction of any other conditions, as specified by the Committee in its sole discretion and set forth in the Restricted Stock Award Agreement.  All rights with respect to the Restricted Stock granted to a Participant under the Program shall be available during his or her lifetime only to such Participant.
9
8.4.
                           
Other Restrictions.
The Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock granted pursuant to the Program as it may deem advisable including, without limitation, any or all of the following:
(a)
                                 
A required period of service with the Company, as determined by the Committee, prior to the vesting of Shares of Restricted Stock.
(b)
                                
A requirement that Participants forfeit (or in the case of Shares sold to a Participant, resell to the Company at his or her cost) all or a part of Shares of Restricted Stock in the event of termination of his or her service as a Nonemployee Director during the Period of Restriction.
(c)
                                 
A prohibition against such Participants' dissemination of any secret or confidential information belonging to the Company, or the solicitation by Participants of the Company's Employees for employment by another entity.
Shares of Restricted Stock awarded pursuant to the Program shall be registered in the name of the Participant and if such Shares are certificated, in the sole discretion of the Committee, such certificate may be deposited in a bank designated by the Committee or with the Company.  The Committee may require a stock power endorsed in blank with respect to Shares of Restricted Stock whether or not certificated.
Except as otherwise provided in this Article 8, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock grant made under the Program shall become freely transferable (subject to any restrictions under applicable securities law) by the Participant after the last day of the applicable Period of Restriction.
8.5.
                           
Voting Rights.
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock issued hereunder shall be entitled to exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares during the Period of Restriction.
8.6.
                           
Dividends and Other Distributions.
  Unless the Committee determines otherwise, during the Period of Restriction, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock issued hereunder shall be entitled to regular cash dividends paid with respect to such Shares.  The Committee may apply any restrictions to the dividends that the Committee deems appropriate.
8.7.
                           
Termination of Directorship.
  Each Restricted Stock Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to vest in previously unvested Shares of Restricted Stock following termination of the Participant's service to the Company as a Nonemployee Director.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall
10
be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Shares of Restricted Stock issued pursuant to the Program, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
Article 9.               Restricted Stock Units
9.1.
                           
Restricted Stock Units Awards.
  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Program, the Committee may issue restricted stock units ("Restricted Stock Units") which entitle the Participant to receive the Shares underlying those units following the lapse of specified restrictions (whether based on the achievement of designated performance goals or the satisfaction of specified services or upon the expiration of a designated time period following the vesting of the units).
9.2.
                           
Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement.
  Each Restricted Stock Units award shall be evidenced by a Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement that shall specify the vesting restrictions, the number of Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units award, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.
9.3.
                           
Restrictions.
The Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on the issuance of any Shares under the  Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the Program as it may deem advisable including, without limitation, any or all of the following:
(a)
                                 
A required period of service with the Company, as determined by the Committee, prior to the issuance of Shares under the Restricted Stock Units award.
(b)
                                
A requirement that the Restricted Stock Units award be forfeited in whole or in part in the event of termination of the Participant's services as a Nonemployee Director during the vesting period.
(c)
                                 
A prohibition against such Participants' dissemination of any secret or confidential information belonging to the Company, or the solicitation by Participants of the Company's Employees for employment by another entity.
Except as otherwise provided in this Article 9, Shares subject to Restricted Stock Units under the Program shall be freely transferable (subject to any restrictions under applicable securities law) by the Participant after receipt of such shares.
9.4.
                           
Stockholder Rights.
  Participants holding Restricted Stock Units issued hereunder shall not have any rights with respect to Shares subject to the award until the award vests and the Shares are issued hereunder.  However, dividend-equivalent units may be paid or credited, either in cash or in actual
11
or phantom Shares, on outstanding Restricted Stock Units awards, subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may deem appropriate.
9.5.
                           
Termination of Directorship.
  Each Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to vest in previously unvested Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units award following termination of the Participant's service to the Company as a Nonemployee Director.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Restricted Stock Unit awards issued pursuant to the Program, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
Article 10.            Stock Appreciation Rights
10.1.
                    
Stock Appreciation Rights Awards.
  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Program, the Committee may issue a Stock Appreciation Rights award which shall entitle the Participant to receive upon exercise a payment in cash or Shares underlying the exercised award equal to the excess (if any) of (a) the Fair Market Value of the  Shares on the date of exercise over (b) the aggregate base price in effect for such Shares.  A Stock Appreciation Right shall become exercisable during such times and subject to such conditions as shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion.
10.2.
                    
Stock Appreciation Rights Agreement
.  Each Stock Appreciation Rights award shall be evidenced by a Stock Appreciation Rights Award Agreement that shall specify the vesting restriction, the number of Shares subject to the award and such additional terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine.
10.3.
                    
Base Price.
  The base price for each grant of a Stock Appreciation Right under this Program shall be at least equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the award is granted.
10.4.
                    
Nontransferability of Stock Appreciation Rights.
  Except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement, no Stock Appreciation Right granted under this Article 10 may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement, all Stock Appreciation Rights granted to a Participant under this Article 10 shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant.
12
Article 11.            Automatic Awards to Nonemployee Directors
11.1.
                    
Initial Awards.
(a)
                                 
Initial Awards Prior to May 10, 2007
.  Subject to the terms and provisions of the Program, each Nonemployee Director shall be granted Restricted Stock Units for five thousand (5,000) Shares effective as of the date of such Nonemployee Director's first election to the Board.
(b)
                                
Initial Awards On and After May 10, 2007
.  Subject to the terms and provisions of the Program, each Nonemployee Director who is first elected to the Board on or after May 10, 2007, shall be granted, on the date of such election, Restricted Stock Units for the number of Shares determined by dividing two hundred thousand (200,000) by the Fair Market Vale per Share on such date, and rounding up to the nearest whole Share; provided, however, that in no event shall such number exceed five thousand (5,000) shares.
(c)
                                 
Each Initial Award shall vest in a series of two (2) successive equal annual installments upon the Participant's completion of each year of Board service over the two (2)-year period measured from the grant date.  However, in no event shall Initial Awards for more than sixty thousand (60,000) Shares in the aggregate be issued under Article 11.1(a) which vest over a two (2)-year period.  Any Initial Awards granted after Initial Awards for an aggregate of sixty thousand (60,000) Shares have been issued shall vest in a series of three (3) successive equal annual installments upon the Participant's completion of each year of Board service over the three (3)-year period measured from the grant date (or such longer period as determined by the Committee).
(d)
                                
All additional terms of an Initial Award will be as set forth in Section 8, herein, or as set forth in the specific Award Agreement governing such award.  Each Initial Award shall become fully-vested in the event of the Participant's death or Disability.
11.2.
                    
Annual Awards.
(a)
                                 
Annual Grants Prior to April 30, 2004.
  Subject to the discretion of the Committee and the terms and provisions of the Program, during the period beginning January 1, 2001 and ending prior to April 30, 2004, each Nonemployee Director shall receive annually an Option to purchase ten thousand (10,000) Shares, effective as of the day following each annual meeting of the Company's stockholders (but subject to any vesting provisions or other restrictions determined by the Committee).
13
(b)
                                
Annual Awards On and After April 30, 2004
.  Subject to the discretion of the Committee and the terms and provisions of the Program, during the period beginning April 30, 2004 and ending April 1, 2010, each Nonemployee Director shall receive annually, effective as of the day following each annual meeting of the Company's stockholders an award as follows:
(i)
                 
An Option for up to ten thousand (10,000) Shares, or
(ii)
              
A Restricted Stock Units award for up to four thousand (4,000) Shares, or
(iii)
           
A combination of an Option and Restricted Stock Units award, provided that in no event may the total value of the Option and Restricted Stock Units award subject to such combined award exceed two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000).  The Committee shall have the sole discretion to determine the amount and type of award for each year within the foregoing limitations.  For such purposes, the value of the Annual Award shall be calculated as follows: (A) the value of an Option Share shall be equal to the fair value of an option share as estimated on the date of grant under a valuation model approved by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") for purposes of the Company's financial statements under FAS 123 (or any successor provision); and (B) the value of a Restricted Stock Unit shall be equal to the Fair Market Value of the Share on the award date.
(c)
                                 
Each Annual Award shall vest in a series of three (3) successive equal annual installments upon the Participant's completion of each year of Board service over the three (3)-year period measured from the award date (or such longer period as determined by the Committee).  Each Annual Award shall become fully vested in the event of the Participant's death or Disability.
(d)
                                
All additional terms of an Annual Award will be as set forth in Articles  6 and 9 herein, or as set forth in the specific Award Agreement governing such award.
11.3.
                    
Annual Retainer Election.
(a)
                                 
Subject to the terms and provisions of the Program and any other restrictions set out by the Committee in its sole discretion, the Committee may permit each Nonemployee Director to elect to receive all or a portion of his or her Annual Retainer in the form of Options or Stock Issuances to be issued as of the first day on which such Annual Retainer is otherwise due and payable (the "Conversion
14
Date") and using the Fair Market Value of a Share as of the Conversion Date as the Option Price of the Options.
(b)
                                
If conversion elections are permitted by the Committee, each irrevocable election shall be made in accordance with such rules as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion.  Except as may otherwise be determined by the Committee, in the event of a Participant's election to receive an Option in lieu of his Annual Retainer, the number of shares subject to the Option shall be determined by dividing that portion of the Annual Retainer to be paid in the form of the Option by the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Conversion Date and multiplying the quotient by four (4).  In the event of a Participant's election to receive Shares in lieu of an Annual Retainer, the number of such Shares shall be determined by dividing that portion of the Annual Retainer to be paid in the form of Shares by the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Conversion Date. In the event the preceding formula would result in a fractional Share being issued or subject to the Option, the portion of the converted Annual Retainer attributable to such fractional Share will be refunded to the Nonemployee Director in cash instead of being converted into such fractional Share.  However, effective with stock issuances or Options granted on or after May 10, 2007, in the event the preceding formula would result in a fractional Share being issued or subject to an Option, the number of Shares subject to the issuance or Option shall be rounded up to the nearest whole Share.
(c)
                                 
Any portion of a Nonemployee Director's Annual Retainer for which an election has not been made pursuant to this Section 11.3, shall be paid in cash to such Nonemployee Director at such time or times as payments thereof are customarily made by the Company.
(d)
                                
All additional terms of an Award received as a result of the election described herein will be as set-forth in Sections 6 and 7, herein, or as set forth in the specific Award Agreement governing such Award.
Article 12.            Beneficiary Designation
Each Participant under the Program may, from time to time, name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any benefit under the Program is to be paid in case of his or her death before he or she receives any or all of such benefit.  Each such designation shall revoke all prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Company, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing with the Company during the Participant's lifetime.  In the absence of any such designation, benefits remaining unpaid at the Participant's death shall be paid to the Participant's estate.
15
Article 13.            Deferrals
The Committee may permit or require a Participant to defer such Participant's receipt of the payment of cash or the delivery of Shares that would otherwise be due to such Participant by virtue of the exercise of an Option, or Stock Appreciation Right or under a Restricted Stock Unit Award.  If any such deferral election is required or permitted, the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, establish rules and procedures for such payment deferrals.
Article 14.            Rights of Participants
14.1.
                    
Directorship.
  Nothing in the Program or any Award Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company to terminate at any time any Participant's service to the Company as a Nonemployee Director, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the service of the Company.
14.2.
                    
Participation.
  No Nonemployee Director shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under this Program, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.
Article 15.            Change in Control
Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control and notwithstanding the terms of any Award Agreement, unless otherwise specifically prohibited under applicable laws, or by the rules and regulations of any governing governmental agencies or national securities exchanges:
(a)
                                 
Any and all Options granted hereunder shall become immediately exercisable, and if granted before November 13, 2002 shall remain exercisable throughout their entire term; and any Option granted on or after November 13, 2002 shall terminate upon the earlier of (i) the third anniversary of the Participant's date of termination of service or (ii) expiration of the Option term.
(b)
                                
Any restriction periods and restrictions imposed on Awards shall lapse.
Article 16.            Amendment, Modification, and Termination
16.1.
                    
Amendment, Modification, and Termination.
  Subject to the terms of the Program including Sections 16.2 and 16.3, the Board may at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, suspend or terminate the Program in whole or in part.  However, stockholder approval shall be required for any amendment of the Program that (a) materially increases the number of Shares available for issuance under the Program (other than pursuant to Article 5.4), (b) expands the type of awards available under the Program, (c) materially
16
expands the class of participants eligible to receive Awards under the Program, (d) materially extends the term of the Program, (e) materially changes the method of determining the Option Price under the Program or (f) deletes or limits any provision of the Program prohibiting the repricing of Options.  The Committee may amend Awards previously granted under the Program.
16.2.
                    
Adjustment of Awards Upon the Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events.
  The Committee may make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, the events described in Section 5.4 hereof) affecting the Company or the financial statements of the Company or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Program.
16.3.
                    
Awards Previously Granted.
  Notwithstanding any provision of the Program or of any Award Agreement to the contrary (but subject to Section 6.10), no termination, amendment, or modification of the Program or amendment of an Award previously granted under the Program shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously granted under the Program, without the express consent of the Participant holding such Award.
Article 17.            Compliance with Applicable Law and Withholding
17.1.
                    
General.
  The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares under the Program shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Program or any Award Agreement, the following shall apply:
(a)
                                 
The Company shall have no obligation to issue any Shares under the Program if such issuance would violate any applicable law or any applicable regulation or requirement of any securities exchange or similar entity.
(b)
                                
Prior to the issuance of any Shares under the Program, the Company may require a written statement that the recipient is acquiring the Shares for investment and not for the purpose or with the intention of distributing the Shares and that the recipient will not dispose of them in violation of the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933.
(c)
                                 
With respect to any Participant who is subject to Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, the Committee may, at any time, add such conditions
17
and limitations to Award or payment under the Program or implement procedures for the administration of the Program which it deems necessary or desirable to comply with the requirements of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act.
(d)
                                
If, at any time, the Company, determines that the listing, registration, or qualification (or any updating of any such document) of any Award, or the Shares issuable pursuant thereto, is necessary on any securities exchange or under any federal or state securities or blue sky law, or that the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, any Award, the issuance of Shares pursuant to any Award, or the removal of any restrictions imposed on Shares subject to an Award, such Award shall not be granted and the Shares shall not be issued or such restrictions shall not be removed, as the case may be, in whole or in part, unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent, or approval shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Company.
17.2.
                    
Securities Law Compliance.
  Transactions under this Program are intended to comply with all applicable conditions of Rule 16b-3 or its successors under the 1934 Act. To the extent any provision of the Program or action by the Committee or the Board fails to so comply, it shall be deemed null and void, to the extent permitted by law and deemed advisable by the Board.
17.3.
                    
Tax Withholding.
  The Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, local, domestic and foreign taxes, required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of this Program.
17.4.
                    
Share Withholding.
  Awards payable in Shares may provide that with respect to withholding required upon any taxable event arising thereunder, Participants may elect to satisfy the withholding requirement, in whole or in part, by having the Company withhold Shares to satisfy their withholding tax obligations; provided that Participants may only elect to have Shares withheld having a Fair Market Value on the date the tax is to be determined equal to or less than the minimum withholding tax which could be imposed on the transaction.  All elections shall be irrevocable, made in writing, signed by the Participant, and shall be subject to any restrictions or limitations, including prior Committee approval, that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate.
18
Article 18.            Indemnification
Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Program and against and from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf.  The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
Article 19.            Successors
All obligations of the Company under the Program with respect to Awards granted hereunder shall, to the extent legally permissible, be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
Article 20.            Legal Construction
20.1.
                    
Gender and Number.
  Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.
20.2.
                    
Severability.
  In the event any provision of the Program shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Program, and the Program shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
20.3.
                    
Governing Law.
  To the extent not preempted by federal law, the Program, and all Award or other agreements hereunder, shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the state of Delaware without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws.
19


