FILE:EW/EW-8K-20100217162307.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
February 11, 2010
(949) 250-2500
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
 
N/A
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report
)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-Commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-Commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02.
             
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On February 11, 2010, Wesley W. von Schack was appointed to serve as a member of the board of directors of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (the "Company").  Mr. von Schack will be a Class I director with a term expiring at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2010.  He will also serve as a member of the Audit and Public Policy Committee of the board.  Under the terms of the Edwards Lifesciences Nonemployee Director Stock Incentive Program, Mr. von Schack was awarded 2,331 Restricted Stock Units upon his appointment to the board.  A copy of the press release announcing Mr. von Schack's appointment to the Company's board of directors is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01.
             
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
          
Exhibits
 
99.1
        
Press release, dated February 12, 2010, announcing Wesley W. von Schack's appointment to the board of directors of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation.
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
WESLEY VON SCHACK ELECTED TO EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES' BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
IRVINE, Calif.,
February, 12, 2010
 Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (NYSE: EW), a world leader in products and technologies to treat advanced cardiovascular disease, announced today that Wesley W. von Schack has been elected to its board of directors and will also serve as a member of its Audit and Public Policy Committee.  Mr. von Schack, 65, is the retired Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Energy East Corporation (now Iberdrola USA, a subsidiary of Iberdrola, S.A.), a super-regional energy delivery and services company.
 
"We are pleased to have someone with Wes's executive leadership experience join our board of directors," said Michael A. Mussallem, Edwards' chairman and CEO.  "With over three decades of business experience, including more than 20 years of CEO experience in a highly regulated industry, I'm confident Wes will be an immediate contributor to our strong and independent board."
 
Currently, Mr. von Schack is the Lead Director and Chairman of the Executive Committee of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.  In addition, he is Chairman of the Board of AEGIS Insurance Services, a property and casualty mutual company, and a Director of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated.
Mr. von Schack earned his A.B. in Economics from Fordham University, an M.B.A. from St. John's University, and a Doctorate in Finance and Management from Pace University.
 
About Edwards Lifesciences
 
Edwards Lifesciences is the global leader in the science of heart valves and hemodynamic monitoring, with more than five decades of experience in partnering with clinicians to develop life-saving innovations.  Headquartered in Irvine, Calif., Edwards treats advanced cardiovascular disease with its market-leading heart valve therapies, and critical care and vascular technologies, which are sold in approximately 100 countries.  The company's global brands include Carpentier-Edwards, Cosgrove-Edwards, Edwards SAPIEN, FloTrac, Fogarty, PERIMOUNT Magna and Swan-Ganz.  Additional company information can be found at http://www.edwards.com.
 
Edwards is a trademark of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation. Edwards Lifesciences, the stylized E logo, Carpentier-Edwards, Cosgrove-Edwards, Edwards SAPIEN, FloTrac, Fogarty, Magna, PERIMOUNT, PERIMOUNT Magna and Swan-Ganz are trademarks of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation and are registered in the United States Patent and Trademark Office.
 


